ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.1.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. The session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder and will be done tomorrow, to the gods of the morning, as is usual. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] So I also inform you that, in compliment to what is established by the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of 2020 there are 675 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. [[General debate on the health situation]] [[255-00015/12]] The first item on the agenda is the general debate on the health situation. And, in accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate will be governed by the provisions of Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons. As the debate is at the request of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the first word is Mr Carlos Carrizosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.2.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Catalans are scared, because the crisis of the coronavirus is still very present in Catalonia. The contagions continue, human lives continue to be lost despite the enormous sacrifice of all our health care professionals. And this epidemic is, of course, a health problem, but it is also a serious global, economic and social crisis. In Catalonia, today, the rate of risk, of rebound, has risen: if Monday reached a level of 19,56, twenty-four_hours later it is 215.15 on average in Catalonia. A very high level of risk. In the Gironès, the risk of rebound is 348.84; in the Cerdanya, the risk of rebound is 724.94. And in Lower Hebrew, it's 712.15. And another indicator is that the rate of reproduction of the disease, the Rt, has been located at 1,13, in Catalonia. The WHO, today..., no, yesterday it was, reminded us that only 10_percent of the world's population has been infected, so the danger of the pandemic persists in all its strength. However, here in Catalonia, as always, it seems that we have been distracted with other issues rather than in curbing the curve. And the reality is that Ciutadans asked for this plenary in July and we celebrated it today, in October, and yet when Mr. Torra had his consolation plenary to talk about his monothemes, that plenary convened him in twenty-four hours. In twenty-four_hours you did it to convene that plenary, when this other one we have taken more than two months to celebrate. In Ciutadans we had with you..., nothing else started the pandemic, had not yet started the state of alarm and the confinements, on March 10 in the afternoon, we had a meeting. And I don't know if you remember what we told you when you said you had everything under control. We were alerting them; there were chilling precedents in China, Italy and Madrid the issue was very difficult. But you were disoriented, you were dedicated to the subject of the usual, to the process. You passed the first wave saying barbarities like that of Mrs. Budó: "In an independent Catalonia you would have died less; or Mrs. Ponsatí, with the support of Mr. Puigdemont: "From Madrid to heaven, when there were more dead in Madrid; or Mr. Buch, who saw cabalistic numbers with 1714 masks and saw conspiracies. Hospitals and ICUs were collapsed, while you were looking at Waterloo instead of managing the crisis. In many places primary care was closed, with great problems of access to patients. We found out that 061 was charging, while they had died everywhere; we had to adjust it, this. The management of the crisis during the first wave was disastrous, although the Catalans set an example with the confinement, they sacrificed themselves by giving that example of civicism and responsibility, often above the political class. Despite how difficult it is to understand one with a government that does not respect so many things – does not sometimes respect the laws, nor respects the majority of Catalan citizens –, from the first moment we made ourselves available to the Government, in order to try to help in each of the full of the pandemic, in the first telematic appearances, in private... In Ciutadans we had complaints from all parts of Catalonia: the hospitals were collapsed, the directors of desperate residences, the patients who carried more than one hour on the phone waiting for no answer. We had, in a few days, more than one hundred and fifty meetings with associations and entities: we listened, accompanied the pain in some cases, met requests and made commitments in others. And so, we were presenting dozens of proposals that we handed over to the counselors, to work in their areas. In a plenary session, we were recognized that our proposals had not been read, that they represented more than a million voters and that they had been worked with experts and collectives and sectors affected by the crisis. You said that you did not give them time to read the, with the management of the crisis, so, what we were going to expect from the opposition; of course, getting hands on the work to implement them was rather difficult. But we, despite this, don't throw away the towel. Our position was to collaborate, to serve the citizenry. We did not have to deviate and we continued with the meetings. And look, I think that, apart from talking about management, pure management in this plenary, that we are so lacking in Catalonia, because sometimes we also have to look at the health crisis. They know I lost my father in this crisis. On March 30, when the hospitals were collapsed, my father, aged eighty-five, was with Covid's symptoms, with breathing difficulties. He'd call on the phone, he'd pick up his phone, he'd call a doctor, he'd call a doctor... they wouldn't call him. And the news was collapsing in the hospital units. When we told him if he wanted us to take him to the hospital, by car, we, his children, he said no. That no, because he, with his age and his pathologies, was going to be put on a stretcher in a collapsed hospital and that, with his eighty-five years and all his illnesses, he was going to stay for the last ones and he was going to die on a stretcher alone, in a hospital. And we understood it and no longer insisted on it, we didn't want to force it. We left him at his house, the poor, and the night of March 30, when my brother went in the morning, he found him dead. And then we had the problems that have had so many Catalans with the sepelians, which could not be attended either. He died there alone. We would never have let our father die alone. Although we were confined, I had to go on some occasion to fix the medicines at his house, which the doctors had given him, because he did not just clarify himself with... We were talking on the phone with some doctor; with my partner too, Dr. Soler, Jorge Soler, and we were trying to organize the medicines. But in the end, he couldn't take it; he couldn't take it and he died. And a few days later, I hired him. Two days later I was fatal and it turns out that I had caught the coronavirus, probably at my father's house. My father, by the way, since he didn't get to see a doctor, doesn't count as the deaths of coronavirus, but we're all clear, because of the symptoms he was suffering, that's what it was. And then I took it. And here, as far as I'm concerned, personally, I'd like to take what a person who's sick appreciates. I spent several days at my house and, in the end, when I called and had X-rays on the CAP, I had pneumonia in both lungs and I was admitted to the Hospital de Sant Pau eight_days. And there, for one suffers and sees, first, the concern of the family, because you are there with your mobile phone and everyone was very worried: my father had died and they thought..., my children thought: "My grandfather has died, perhaps now my father dies. And we were in touch. And I want to highlight a lot that he also had a roommate named Carlos, like me, and that he had been in the ICU and in semi-criticals at the Hospital de Sant Pau. He could hardly speak to his family, in the room that double, without exhilarating himself, when he said that he was well, that he was better, that he was better; because there he saw his ears to the wolf, we saw them almost everyone. The nurses, the medics, the doctors were coming in... they were warning us before we came in to put on masks and they were absolutely wrapped in protective equipment. These health professionals should be thanked for the unveiling they were dealing with everyone. Sometimes we heard screams in the rooms, typical in hospitals, at night... always incredible patience. They'd come, they'd take care of everyone. It's been amazing. I already knew public health, like many other Catalans, on family issues that we had had to be, and we had seen the immense solidarity and professionalism that our health professionals have. I wanted to thank what in this plenary, that treatment that we were given, that we were given to all the sick, in the improvised plants, because they were not the respiratory plants, they were others that had had to improvise in the Hospital de Sant Pau. And I also wanted to give you a moving example of what people were doing at that time and in those Covid days, which were the first days of April. In this society that we have, sometimes, that we only see the rift, and more those that we are immersed in political life, that sometimes it seems that we fight so much..., that, by the way, I also want to thank the political comrades of this chamber that..., first, the solidarity they had with me and the way we communicate in this and that always..., we even had to give each other, sometimes, mutual condolences, some of us, because we had lost some family members. For that atmosphere of solidarity that awakened the coronavirus in Catalonia, I wanted to illustrate what with this little drawing [[the deputy shows a drawing to the chamber]] of a girl named Arlet. And I don't know her, I don't know who she is. The nurses at St. Paul's Hospital sent us this, which is like a point of book that had made children who would bring it to the Hospital of Sant Pau, so that they would give it to the sick, and put a little picture of a girl with a flower, which put the name of Arlet, and put it: "A warm hug, full of llum i amor. It's gonna be okay. This was given to us by the nurses. And I say to him: « – What is this? « – No, it's that the people who do these jobs, the children and the families... and they brought them to the Hospital de Sant Pau, they brought it to me in the room and, when I left the room, the truth is that I took it and I found it beautiful this solidarity, almost Christmas, that we sometimes have in societies. I wish this seemed like a Christmas tale, almost, I wish we had, with everything that we still have to deal with as a pandemic, we know that we are up to the level of this humanity that has to join us all, because sometimes, too often, we get into problems of rich countries that want to be even more and we neglect the values that bind us all to humanity. But going back to the health and management of health and care, and to the gratitude that our health workers deserve, we have to say that we cannot trust all the professionalism of the health workers and have the exhausted i do not correspond to them. Society must return what they give us. And what we have to do to do that is to improve the funding of the health system. And, to improve the, of course, our managers cannot leave the chair empty as they have done so many times. Mrs Vergés, in the interterritorial of the Ministry of Health, who did not attend the meeting of the councillors of the autonomous communities in the Ministry of Health, to improve our health policies – did not attend – and Mr Aragonés, therefore, to the Council of Fiscal and Financial Policy, where in the end we talk about the economic resources that have to correspond to us. You seem to prefer to exclude us or to exclude us from the important forums to continue with your subject of the process. In Catalonia, we already had more than 824,000 patients on the waiting list before the pandemic. Mr Pujol said, for example, that this was not an essential issue. And we introduced in 2018 a law to fight against waiting lists. You voted against it. And what we wanted with that was for specialists and the best management professionals to come here to agree on a health law that would allow us to lower these waiting lists. We told them that the professionals were exhausted; you denied it. Soon they had a doctor's strike. Very recently, another of the MIRs. They have been ruling and managing billions of euros for years and years, but the shortcomings we have in the Catalan administration means that it is always the fault of Madrid, or the judges, or the citizens, and you never take responsibility. If the waiting list was already brutal before the pandemic, now we no longer imagine how they should be, among other things, because you have stopped publishing, making another boast of their opacity, these lists on the web. Chapter apart deserves the chaos of the residences of older people and the serious consequences they have had for older people. In the case of the residence, at the level of health care, it was a mistake to leave the unattended until the councillor of Salut assumed command. And that was a mistake because many lives were lost in those weeks. Unfortunately, there are too many cases in which family members have not heard from their relatives in more than fifteen days, without knowing whether their grandfather or father, a resident of the residence, was alive or dead. And residences are going to remain at risk, so we must combine an opening of visits to residences with measures to protect residents and avoid new repuntes and new vectors of contagion. Not all centers will be in the same epidemiological situation, and we consider it necessary to adapt the descalation plan in the centers, or the visit plan, to the specific situations of each of them. Catalans are an extremely ageing population compared to other areas. Here almost one_of_each_four people are over sixty_and_five years old and the forecast is that this data will increase in the coming years. From Ciutadans we are promoting a policy review committee for the elderly, which has been working for almost two years in Parliament with different parliamentary groups, working together with experts and, in October, will present its conclusions with the contributions of all parliamentary groups, to urge the Generalitat to implement these recommendations with the aim of giving worthy attention and above all putting the piles on this subject. In any case, all this effort and recommendations of the study committee promoted by Ciutadans will serve no purpose if the Generalitat ignores our..., the recommendations of this committee, as unfortunately we are accustomed to all the realistic and effective proposals that we put forward in Parliament and which later this Parliament approves, but you do not implement. The human drama of residences cannot be repeated again, for those who are no longer there and for those who are still with us. As for the management of the council of Salut, well, you, in the second wave, have followed with the mistakes of the month of March. You scorned the help of the UME, rejected army trackers – but the contract for trackers you managed with Ferrovial was a total fiasco – the return to school was a chaos, fifty_ thousand people were summoned for the Diya separatist demonstration and the government said nothing. And, in the midst of the pandemic, they ran out of their public health director and took weeks to find another replacement. And between the one appointed, the one appointed by Mr. Torra, the stabbings they gave him and the replacement, in the middle of a pandemic, we had no one in charge. We have had in front of a councilwoman who did not have health training deciding on what she did not know, giving bandages, one day yes and another also, to the extent that we, Mrs Vergés, were obliged to ask for her resignation. You guys had hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable hospitable. People went the next day to the beach, to their villages and to their families, and the next morning you confined because you changed your mind. No one understood anything. It was a deplorable show. Everyone had warned them, but the improvisation continued, the protocols were changing over time. We now have confined entire classrooms, local offices that are still closed, primary care overflowed, tired, exhausted; threats of strikes... And we, from the zero minute, try to collaborate to get some of their disguises fixed as far as possible. We..., had already started the pandemic and we presented 1,200 amendments to the budgets so that 900_millions of the waste of this usual administration, which is more or less difficult to sustain, beyond the budgetary priorities, what it is difficult to sustain the process..., that those 900_millions went to the fight against the Covid-19. We were reciprocating from TV3; from embassies abroad – which, by the way, now the Constitution has laid them all down –; from its CNI to prepare blows; from paguitas to former presidents... Those 900_million could have dedicated themselves to closing, perhaps, an agreement of the MIR doctors on strike, to closing an agreement..., to equip them with the necessary PPEs or to clean ambulances or to increase spending on primary care...; 900_million give for many salaries in doctors and many hospital beds. In the document that we delivered to the Government on 26 March, in the midst of the pandemic, we proposed, among other measures – to produce rapid tests, to increase prevention and to prevent the collapse of the health system, which in the end had to be done – coordination with the EMU to offer the location and infrastructure necessary for the establishment of field hospitals during the days of emergency; to provide mental health support at the homes of people confined with pathology and without family support. And all this, among others. Here, in this plenary session, we intend to present measures for the adequacy of Catalonia's primary care in the fight against the Covid-19 and its possible rebounds. The WHO is asking that 25_per_cent of the total budget devoted to health care be devoted to primary care, and in Catalonia we are dedicating 16 to that 25 that the WHO asks for, which, together with the great deficit that drags from the brutal cuts that began with the government of Mr. Mas, places Catalan health in a position of chronic weakness. We will also call for measures to strengthen Catalonia's emergency and health transport systems in the fight against the Covid-19. During the onset of this crisis, the lack of protective equipment became evident, which put workers in situations of personal danger and totally unjustifiable risk. Also measures to improve mental health care. Saturday, October 10 is World Mental Health Day, and unfortunately, caring for people with mental health problems was never a priority for the successive governments of the Generalitat, as is evident from the lack of compliance with the resolutions of this chamber for their improvement, many of them proposed by Ciutadans. The pandemic caused by the Covid-19 has increased by more than 20_per_cent the depressive pictures, according to the Spanish Psychiatry Society, and 80_per_cent– no less, 80_per_cent – of health professionals who have been attending the first wave of the pandemic have symptoms of anxiety or depression. And yet, it has not been planned to increase mental health resources to meet the needs of the pandemic. We will also propose measures to reduce waiting lists and strengthen health care. We have already referred to the fact that the situation on waiting lists has been greatly aggravated. For example, the waiting time for a heart operation was before the twenty-six-day pandemic and has now passed to fifty_and_eight_days. From twenty-six to fifty-eight in April, while in the same period, from February to April, a cancer intervention has gone from nineteen to forty-two days. We have to do something to reduce these waiting lists aggravated by the pandemic. We also propose measures for the recognition and dignity of healthcare professionals. According to the memory of the ICS, the staff has been reduced by almost five_ thousand professionals between 2010 and 2017. This precarious situation, coupled with the lack of protective equipment and the overload of work and danger posed by the Covid-19, caused more than ten_ thousand contagions between health care workers, with nine doctors in active care who died, according to data from this May. My tribute and gratitude to all of them. We also propose to condemn the threats and aggressions of those who care so much for us in hard times. We all remember that health worker who saw his car painted with the words « contagious rat by some heartless neighbor of his. And, finally, we will propose many more measures that we do not have time to explain now, but that my fellow Member, Dr. Jorge Soler, will develop later. With regard to the financing, management and prioritization of expenditure, we, of course, if we were to govern, health would be one of the priorities for us. We need to reform the health system so that professionals and patients are minimally compliant, and we must also close the black hole that all Catalans' resources require the process, so that the process stops swallowing everyone's money. We want more doctors and less plugs, and we want more hospitals and less chiringuitos. This is what people want, moreover; it says even the CEO's government's own survey: Catalans prioritize the management of public services to the resolution of the process. Catalans ask us for management, management and management, and more in pandemic time. We need to equip the health centres with more material, to bet on a more modern management, and we have done so, in Citizens, defending the implementation of the management by objectives, the DPO. We do believe in an integrated care model, which means that what happens in a residence is also health competence, and that should not be forgotten. We need to have a much more ambitious view of the health system by integrating the social aspect, digital transformation, bet on innovation, and that professionals are happy to be in Catalonia, in a Catalonia with rigor for improving the health system. We will, when we govern Catalonia, because that is one of our priorities, and because we govern, for example, in Castile and the Health Advisor is from Citizens, and there we have improved labor stability with several oppositions and transfer competitions and we call them annually. That's the difference. You promise to hire a lot of people, but it's like the joke: "Not today, tomorrow. There we have recovered the investment per capita prior to the crisis of 2008 and we have increased by 60_per_cent ICUs in Castile. You are saying that they are, the budgets you have, "the most social budgets of history, and they say it every time, but the truth is that until the last budget they have spent less money than they have already spent in the previous year. Mr. Artur Mas' cuts are still in Catalonia because you did not want to prioritize health. Catalonia is among the autonomous communities that reduced the most investment in public health between 2009 and 2018, a 12.37_per_cent, and it was the one that decreased its spending on primary care the most, with a 24.28_per_cent, and now a primary care strike is called in Catalonia for the next 13 October. Look, we in Castile, for example, also had the MIR strike, but we reached a pact with them, and in Catalonia we listened last week to the representatives of the MIR in the Health Commission explaining that they had to share the beds during the guards. Here we were told that the councilwoman had not wanted to meet with them; in the middle of the pandemic the councilwoman did not see it important to sit with them to listen to them. We regret it, and thank you, therefore, that we give to the doctors of the MIR. In conclusion, two ways to deal with the crisis and two ways to govern. Until now you have been installed in disobedience, in confrontation, installed the mess, but the answer to the health crisis cannot be bandages, empty chairs and blame everything to those of Madrid. Their failure we fear is irremediable, but they still have a chance to do something good for people. They welcome the proposals that the parliamentary groups have given them in this plenary, implement them as soon as possible, because the citizens on foot, therefore, may not charge the 120,000 euros a year that Mr Torra is already charging for today and for four years or carry an official car, but they expect us to fix their health system so as not to continue putting their lives at stake. It is true that to cope with this pandemic there are no magic recipes, but you have proved to be very bad managers, perhaps because you did not come to manage an autonomy. Among your priorities is not putting all your efforts in managing effectively; you are always thinking about other things. But in a moment of pandemic the Catalans ask for heights of sight, they want us to agree and today we have the opportunity to do so. We have been working for that agreement and for that consensus during these months, here, also in the Congress of Deputies, and so we will follow and do it for all Catalans, for all, without exception. We will lend you a hand as we extend it to Mr. Torra's government. Now you're on duty. We have four months ahead of us, which are decisive to deal with this pandemic. They can count on us, but please take care of what they have to do during these months and solve the serious health problems that will come upon us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Government, in the first place, the words of the Vice President and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, let's start this debate on the health situation in Catalonia, in which the Government will intervene..., so I will intervene in the first place myself, after the Councillor of Presidency and finally the Councillor of Health. And in this debate, the very honourable President of the Generality, Quim Torra, will not be able to speak because of the unjust disqualification that has been ratified by the Supreme Court. Today and every day we go denouncing not to normalize this situation. That said, let's hope that the debate we face today and on the next few days is a positive debate, a realistic debate, an ambitious debate, and they also demand, but also a human debate. A human debate because, behind the figures that we all ask for in the different interventions of today, tomorrow and tomorrow, there are people who have suffered, people who have left us, people who are painting and many life projects who have seen themselves cut or modified in a very clear way. There's a life behind every cup, there's faces behind every cup, there's friends, there's parents, there's company, there's a lot of names. That is why, when Mr Carrizosa explained his personal life and also his family, we can do nothing but show respect, recognition and, as we did at those times, give him all the souls and support. His case is the case of many Catalans and Catalans, sadly. It's the case of that friend or that friend who lost her father and the mother was there. It's the case of that person who thought it wouldn't affect his contagion and that he saw how in a couple of days he had to be admitted to be helped with oxygen. And it's also the case of that friend or that little thing that you have to work in a residence and that she still lives in anguish today how she can continue to work with all her talent and all her quality to give hope and give life to the advice that they are in that residence. Or that aunt you've got who's a nurse and who, in the toughest moments of the pandemic, came from her own family to be fourteen days at the ICU unit in a local hospital. Therefore, after there are many reds – there are many reds. And, therefore, I believe that we are obliged to do this debate, as we also did in good part of the coronavirus debates, with this respect but also with this humanity. I have to say that there have been moments of Mr Carrizosa's intervention in which I believe he has prioritized what is a more electoralist view than that. I think we don't have to go in, we don't have to go in for comparisons. You have made use of the comparison with Castella and Lleó – I understand what you meant –; we will not go into comparison with other places where you have responsibilities for government, because what we are interested in are the problems we have here. We're not going into what I'm thinking, from my point of view, demagogic comparisons, are we? , because if we complain about TV3, we should complain about Canal Sur, which will receive 11_million from the Covid funds, according to which it has been published, or we should complain about Telemadrid's assumption, 83_million euros, which we could say: « This could go..., no, no. Let's focus. I will focus on my intervention, first, a very quick respite from the pandemic situation, and after the situation and setbacks of the health system. For what it does to the pandemic, the later data ratifies that we cannot lower the guard. The increase in the risk of rebound at these times, therefore, of the Rt, therefore, which is at a 1,13 the risk of rebound of 215. Today we have 172 people admitted to intensive care units. It is a shield that allows us to manage it, but it needs us to continue anticipating us, to follow decisions so that we can continue to feel manageable, that means that the health system has the ability to do all the work planned, and, unfortunately, when it is necessary to produce tickets it also has the ability, therefore, to act there, and, therefore, to donate all the services that are needed. This week we're at the highest PCR test rate in the weeks since the pandemic. We also have a remarkable positive index, a little higher than the previous week, a 6.07_per_cent, but we are still anticipating. Today, the official newspaper publishes the measures that have been taken in Tortosa, Roquetes and Amposta, limiting mobility, restricting activities, restricting schedules; and we will continue to do so. Cribratges are occurring at Salt's schools, community performances in Osona, continue the cribratges in the Florida bar of the Hospitallet. The will, therefore, of this government is to continue advancing us, anticipating us. Short and medium terms we have important challenges. In the first loctenenimel reinforcement of the primary care that, as the Vergés Councillor said, concentrates 80_percent of the pocket to stop the pandemic. Very important to anticipate us and to contain the advance of the contagion. For this we announced a few weeks ago, and we are already putting on the march, this Primary Strengthening Plate, of primary care, which will allow until 2022 the incorporation of more than 3,800 professionals, between health professionals and support professionals. One of the complaints of the primary care professionals is that they spend too much time on administrative aspects, "bureaucratics, if they want to tell us, and therefore they need to unload them, and it is important, and therefore the incorporation of new profiles. Of these 3,800, 1,300 the forecast is that it will be incorporated until the end of the year. Secondly, we are still enabling multi-purpose spaces, such as the five extensions of these multi-purpose spaces on the side of reference hospitals: on the side of the Month Broggi, on the side of German Trias and Pujol, on the side of Bellvitge, on the side of Arnau de Vilanova, and on the side of the Espai del Pere Virgili, also in Barcelona, to continue to do... but, above all, to take away from hospitals a part of the Covid activity and to be able to continue doing the ordinary activity, which can be one of the most important costs we can have, that in order to focus on the Covid is no longer to do the ordinary activity that also affects the state of salvation of the majority of the population, and we must try to do it all at the same time. Spaces also adapted to circuits prone to a pandemic of such easy transmission. Five multipurpose spaces left in the healthcare system are €85_million, 490 beds adapted for critics. At these times we have 173 people in ICUs. We'll have 490 beds ready for everything we can get through. Let's hope we don't have to fill them, but, if it comes down, we're ready. And today too, therefore, we have also explained the new follow-up instruments by sending text messages and combining it with a web so that it is the same patient who can also do part of this work of the Covid managers, who at these times are doing a very clear monitoring, which we are continuing to increase, but that, obviously, in a situation of major transmission, that could come, that they can... that part of the work can be shared with the patient, so that they can be released. And finally, the reinforcement plan also in the field of public health personnel, which will then explain the Vergés Councillor. We can face these measures thanks to, first of all, the efforts of professionals, we will never tire of saying it. That's why we decided to make an extraordinary reward, which in cases was deemed insufficient, which we said every time it was a first step, that it was not a gesture and a prou, that it was a first step, a first step in the line of staff reinforcement, of staff reinforcement as well, of the working conditions of the health personnel as the phone book of the health system that we want to build. An extraordinary reward that has already been paid. We recognize the tension there is in certain areas of the system, and that is why the will is to continue to incorporate us professionals taking advantage of the talent we have. We have talent in certain areas of the system, such as the SEM or the search centers associated with Salut, from primary schools, regional hospitals, reference hospitals. From here came a committee of experts that has made proposals that are an excellent basis for working, for concrete purposes, in the country's health system. Secondly, we can face these measures thanks to the flexibility and adaptability of the public health system. There has been rapid, there has been mobilization of resources, also of economic resources. And finally, the effort of the citizenry. The citizenry has made a great effort to be on the rise. All this work that has been done by health professionals, if there is no civic involvement and a civic compromise, which is simply to complement health measures, to complement recommendations, would be an effort to the point, and, therefore, it is very important to continue to insist on this effort of the citizenry. The fevers have also been seen. We will not have a triumphalist debate: we know the fevers that exist in our system, some structural ones that we must be able to tackle, others that have seen themselves with this pandemic. And precisely, recognizing these fevers is the best way to take the compromise to turn them into the day of tomorrow. For what he does to the system of salvation, with a broader view, we have a system of salvation of excellence, but it also has many repte. In the first place, it is best to guarantee a universal system, when there are regulations of the State that restrict universal attention to people who say 'without papers', in short, those citizens in our lives who, in the face of an unjust foreign law, find themselves in a situation of administrative irregularity; here it was done, and therefore it was done, by the Councillor Comín, with the decree that afterward it was ratified and we continued to apply with the Vergés Councillor, this universal system that nobody leaves behind. We have hospitals of reference, of excellence, which are linked to the world of research. And this allows us to implement, therefore, we treat, implement measures that place us in leadership in many areas: in transplants, not only in name, but also historically; in oncological actions, we have an extraordinary Catalan Institute of Oncology. We know that primary education is very important, and that is why it can strengthen it and strengthen the community vision of salvation with the rest of the agents: with groups, with schools, with professionals, with pharmacies..., with all the agents of the system. This health system went through detail until 2014; since 2015 there has been a process of recovery of expenditure, and in 2019 the expenditure actually incurred, the expenditure deserved, was 11,000_million euros, higher than that of 2010, and this 2020 we estimate will be around 13,000_million euros. We have important, structural reptes. In the first place, the increase in demand. Lucky for you, life expectancy in this country is bigger every time. But the hope of life must be accompanied by dignity in life. And dignity in life means that, in that final part of life, that it is the more you need the system of salvation, the more you use the system of salvation..., so give it the proper resources. Incorporating the gender perspective, absolutely phonemental. Masses of public policies have taken place with the eyes of the man, with decisions of the man and with resources thought only..., with certain maladies. It is necessary to incorporate the gender perspective in this area of increasing demand. Second of all, the staff is functional; it's probably one of the most complex reptes. We need more personnel, to strengthen professional careers. And we're doing it. We have made efforts to incorporate professional staff, reduce salaries and take administrative fees to the faculty. But we know that if he didn't go with better finance, he won't be able to support it in time. Third place, inversions and technology. We need a new set of investments. We already have an agreement for the new Trueta, historic; we must congratulate each other. We've already put the extension and reform of Joan XXIII in the way. In the march is also the expansion of the Vall d'Hebron Research Institute. We are working to find a plan of the future for the expansion or the new Clinic, therefore, depending on which of the final decision. And we have reinforced the network of nearby hospitals with the expansion of the Hospital of Viladecans, the integration of the hospitals of Reus, of Móra d'Ebre, with a direct direction from the Department of Health, and also the Hospital of Sant Bernabé, of Berga, from the Central Catalonia Health. It's a technological reversal, it's absolutely fundamental. Those state-of-the-art theatres in Bellvitge, virtual reality applications that are fan of Sant Pau must be able to extend their other areas of the system. We have an opportunity and a challenge with European foundations. And we'll work hard on it. And here we go to the final question, and with this end, that is the area of financing, an insufficient financing. From the pool of funding that is destined for governments like that of the Generality of Catalonia, it is said, the Generality of Catalonia and the autonomous communities, 51,000_million follow the parameters to go for salvation. The cost of salvation is 61,000_million. There is a gap of 10,000_million infra-financing with the expenditure we are making now, not with the needs we have, which are very large. This supposes that there are 2,000_million euros that the Generality takes from other areas of general expenditure and places in salvation, that they are not computed for the system of entrances. Therefore, it is essential to address this issue. The financing of the Generality through the LOFCA knows that it is absolutely insufficient; we know of the complexity, but this year 2020 there has been a specific financing Covid. It should be extended – it should be extended – until we can get there..., until there are other mechanisms that allow us to either recap all taxes or have a just financing system. I'm done, finally. Salvation is at the centre of the welfare state in Catalonia or of the Catalan welfare state, as I say. I think we have the opportunity to make a debate, as said, rigorous, human, demanding and, at the same time, feeling realistic. We have a great opportunity. The Government is prepared to agree as much as possible with parliamentary groups. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Hey, guys, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. The President's Counsellor, Meritxell Budó, continued to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.6.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members, Members, Members, I would not like to begin my intervention without adding to the words of the Vice-President's complaint that today who should be here captivating this debate should be President Torra, who has been disqualified, as you know, from the repression that has followed, therefore, since then three years ago, and who, therefore, once again, through justice, have used the tools that they have so far, in this case, unjustly debilitated the President of the Generality. We won't get tired of repeating it and we won't get tired of reporting it. I would also like to begin this debate by recalling once more all those people who have lost their lives or all those people who have lost a loved one because of the Covid-19. I believe that those of us who have been in front of the management of this crisis since the government have not forgotten this day and we have worked precisely to avoid the loss of life at most. So I would also like to start with my recognition of all professionals in the social and health fields. They are the professionals who see the harshness of this pandemic in the first line. And since the government, we'll never get tired of thanking and recognizing your pocket. We are very clear that fighting this pandemic is a struggle that involves all of us. And, from the government, let me tell you that we have acted responsibly, rigorously and in advance to save lives and to protect the citizens and the citizens in spite of being confronted with something unknown. Because, sadly, we didn't have to go to the height of learning that they were advancing the days, because it was unknown not only to us, but to all the governments of the world. Remember, it's a global pandemic. And we have always followed professional and scientific criteria. But above all we have done it with constant and intensive dialogue; a constant and intensive dialogue with civil society, with business and social organisations, with unions, with professional sectors, but also with all public institutions and with all parliamentary groups. And at this point, I want to manifest the constant and intense dialog with the joints. Coordination with the municipalities, the alliance of the local world, has been one of the pillars of this government's management, especially before this crisis. And as a tangible example of all this management, allow me to give you some data: the Government has approved during the pandemic twenty-six decrees law and seventy-six sectoral plans to deal with the consequences arising from this health crisis; decrees that, in addition to implementing health measures, they also determine economic support measures for all those sectors that have come out strongly affected, also social support measures and administrative reorganisation, as well as sectoral plans that provide social services, commercial activity, restoration or cultural spectacles, among many others. Today, in the Executive Board celebrated this morning, we still have economic resources, the result of the contingency fund, to go along with all those sectors that are strongly affected by this health crisis. And, as I said, we have acted responsibly, and if it is important to act responsibly and to do so under scientific criteria and with constant and intensive dialogue, it is not less important to do so with transparency, because transparency and clarity in data is, in any case, a key element in managing it in a healthcare emergence of these characteristics. In fact, in this same room I have explained more than once the importance of communication in the management of the pandemic, and, as you must remember, during all these weeks of the state of alarm Councillor Buch, the Vergés Councillor and I have had press releases informing of the evolution of the pandemic, explaining the measures that we have adopted and affecting all those necessary recommendations for citizenship. And all of this is done on a weekly basis, obviously, with a major or minor periodicity in operation or according to what the situation requires, on a press basis, in this case, now, of Dr. Argimon, and, if necessary, of the same Councillor Vergés or other members of the Government. But transparency went beyond communication. And in this sense I want to put in value that every day we have published data related to the pandemic so that both the citizenry, as well as the media, as researchers can be fully informed. And, with transparency, I can't help remembering all the appearances that all the members of the government have made in this chamber. As you well know, because you were also not the protagonists, the government has always wanted to listen to parliamentary groups in the wake of this crisis. In fact, before taking the first steps in March – record: to close schools and universities, to close the conca d'Odena on a perimeter basis and to ask for the serene confinement of Catalonia – we have already gathered the parliamentary groups to inform them of the difficult situation we were facing. And at the end of a couple of weeks President Torra called them to make a meeting – this time telematically – and give them all the information we had. Next, the president also requested a telematic appearance to the plenary, which, for chamber limitations, ended up being a video conference with all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, to share all the information with you again. And then all the advisors and advisors were going to compare in committee to degregate the work of each department as well as all the action plans we had developed. Therefore, transparency: transparency in communication, transparency in information and transparency before this chamber, of Parliament. And precisely, following in the parliamentary activity, I would also like to highlight the resolution resulting from the debate on the management of the health crisis in Covid-19, the measures taken to promote it and the planned actions of social protection and economic recovery. And I also want to put in value that only two weeks ago, in the general policy debate, the President devoted a large part of his intervention to expanding and updating all the information on the health situation and the measures taken in the field of this educational, social and economic emergence. And, finally, an important point, I would say strategic, about our health system. Because today we're also here to talk about it. As you know, President Torra commissioned a group of independent experts to study and prepare proposals on health system reform actions so that they could be considered by the interdepartmental committee and incorporated into the health policies of our country. Recordin, huh? , by agreement of the government of the 17th of February was formalized this committee of experts for the transformation of the public health system, a committee that then had to pass its proposals to which it was also created, to the Interdepartmental Commission for the elaboration of the Agenda for Transformation of the Public Health System. Now we're here. Well, this is this committee of experts that was two months after intense work, and came up with clear proposals and defined proposals that are the result of this broad deliberative and participatory process, which I would like to highlight above all the great consensus that it has achieved. From here a word of thanks to all the experts who participated and worked on it during these two months. Thanks for your effort and dedication in a few moments that, as a result of this pandemic, are also very difficult for your professional practice. And only a couple of weeks ago, in concrete terms on September 21st, this group of experts handed over to President Torra the retreat of all these necessary measures to strengthen the health system, a health system put to the test before this pandemic, certainly, and which has shown great responsiveness and flexibility to adapt to the needs of the moment. And all thanks, in the first term, to the compromise of all the professionals of the system, both the health and the non-health. But it is also true that this situation has revealed the need for hard structural changes in our system – some of which have been asked for a long time – so that we can respond to the current and future needs of our country. As a government, we take the commitment to work to achieve the development of these proposals to move from management to the governance of our system; a set of thirty concrete measures to rethink and strengthen our health system; a set of thirty measures encompassing eight inspiring principles: sufficient funding, sound public health, modernizing the management of our health centres, an integrated care model, the leadership of professionals, a model with more civic participation, competitive research and innovation, and also taking into account digital transformation. Members and Members, there is no doubt that the object of this debate, the debate on the health situation, is a priority debate for this Government; there is no doubt that we work and devote all our efforts to councils, and above all there is no doubt that nothing will divert us from this absolute dedication, because we know that the country is playing a lot. We play the present, but we also play the future. Therefore, I wish that this is a serious debate, a debate that brings reflection and brings real solutions. Thank you very much, Members and Members, for having a good debate. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next is the turn of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.8.0	Thank you, Vice President. Vice-President of the Government, Councillor, Councillor, Members and all those who follow with interest another monogram on our Catalonian health system. In the first place – I've had to say it many times during these months – this virus has started to treat us, hasn't it? , with this inhumanity and respect for many of the patients during a period. We've all been able to do this by thinking, it's an inhumane virus, it's a crisis that's inhumane and, first of all, out of respect and humanity that I think it deserves citizenship, I want to convey the first words of condol to all the families of people who have lost their lives, more than thirty thousand people who have lost their lives in our country because of the coronavirus. This I think is important, how important it is to do this debate. And the second is gratefully; that we re-serve this chamber, the Parliament of Catalonia, to debate what is really important and basic pillar of our country. And we made it clear and we made it clear to the beginning of this legislature, a legislature that began very strange, after a 155, with a councillor of Health who did not even climb, nor did she just know what was going on in the health care system; a councillor of the People's Party, at that time, who usurped our institutions too. And let's get ahead of ourselves with the clear priorities and now it's proving more than ever that they were uncertain. In the first place – and we said so – primary attention to the center, as is the vertebrator of our health system. Strengthening policies of prevention and promotion of health, policies of professionals. For the first time, a general direction of professionals of new salvation, which did not exist, as noting what is cabdal. We will not have a strong system of salvation for our country, which responds to the needs of our citizens, without clear, above all planned, professional policies that look to the future and that look to the needs of the professions and their growth, obviously, and that can respond to the needs of the citizens. And in fourth place, the perspective of gender, as the vice president said, include it to all the policies of this government, and especially and very intensely, in the policies of Salvation. And at the length of the legislature, we have been translating it into actions and policies. In the first place, actions and policies that very often of this chamber complain that there are consequences in assumptions. And when we were able to do, after three years, to approve the assumptions, we gave the primary care with 1,568,9_million euros, a 21.7_percent of the assumption of provision of health services. It was a leap forward of clarity, it was a leap forward of clarity, which we said was the first step in this premise, beyond the expense we deserved after we ended up having. We also make specific plans for primary care, such as the Best Equipment and Resolution Plan. Why? Because, in a list of inversions of a whole health system, primary care is no longer relegated to what these investments are like non-priority; we put a specific plan with 30_million euros in three years. And because these investments also have a very clear objective, that it is possible to improve the resolution of the primary, that it is the answer of the primary attention closest to the citizenry that we give to the problems of people's salvation. And this year it was deployed to the total practice of all primary care centers, with our sanitary equipment, with the renewal of technological equipment and, obviously, with all the small reforms that we did not want to delay in a list of pending investments that for many years were there and that we have been recovering. This increase in resolution was also linked to a new role map and that's why we made the Forum of Professional Dialogue, where for the first time the different health professions, with universities, professional colleges, trade unions saw each other in a table to agree, to think and to decide those professional policies that we would also push from the Government of the Government of Catalonia as the main premise of this future that we are building. Also with that Decree of credence of nursing prescription, widely demanded for a profession that many times has not had much to see to explain its abilities, its formation and its role in the health system of Catalonia. Also obviously taking over other professionals, such as the same health administrators and administrators who are in our centers and who have a role to play in this better organization and managed better in the face of the citizenry. And also improve primary care support on the part of the different specialties that are located in the hospital environment and that can increase this resolution. Also with the impulse of non-personal activity, which has never been said – it has never been said – that you have to replace, in any case, a face-to-face health professional activity, looking at the user's eyes and looking at the patient's eyes, so that you can solve your health problems, but that clearly in the 21st century will help us and greatly improve accessibility to the citizenry. And also deploy information systems. And we have seen very clearly in this pandemic as, having information systems that integrate between them into a very complex health system, it has helped us, and we have had to push, and it is helping us to a very important aspect that the vice president and the councilwoman also commented, that is to have this more extended to the citizen giving all the information, giving all the data, daily, to the citizenry. This deployment of the information system is 40_million euros in four years, which we have already posted, this 2020, for these 8.5_million euros, and therefore with the greatest momentum. Also with public health policies, where the assumption was a 15_per_cent more than 2017, and we said that we would also continue to feel that way, putting prevention and promotion as a better policy of salvation. I, in order to continue in this area of professionals that I have noted, so important, in this area have grown in more than 600_million euros, 639,8_million euros compared to 2017, a 72,4_percent of the total increase of Health, which assumed eight_ thousand places of structural work, of which thousand_four hundred were to primary attention. Return of the DPOs, increase of the remunerations of the ASIRs and the ACUTs, charge of the cent_per_cent of the IT ; increase of the offer of specialized formation, with a historical record, many of these places in primary attention..., and increase also in more than 2_million euros for these 1,432 places that marked us this historical record of specialized offer to our country. And also to the realm of mental salvation, which has also been commented here, that it is another priority line, that after the Covid is more important than ever: 458_million euros, more than 28_million euros compared to 2017, that had already experienced a spectacular increase in mental salvation policies driven by Councillor Comín. A community that promotes salvation in all its integral vision must also count on mental salvation and attention to the population at particular risk. That means social inclusion, that means equity, that means equal opportunities, too. Therefore, with this visit of the community service, of this attention to the mental salvation brought to the community, that does not institutionalize, that does not discriminate, but helps and accompanies people to live in this society. And all these policies that we started, that we marked as a priority in the legislature, we would follow them, from now on, in the next few years. However, it is clear that this legislature has been marked very clearly by a pandemic that has shaped itself as a global repte, a microscopic virus that has been able to clear out a whole world system that is believed to be eternal and infallible. There are more than 33 million people who have hired the Covid all over the world, and the absence of an instruction manual that we suffered from all the administrations responsible for managing and assuming responsibility for being in charge of fighting this pandemic. This is the reality that we have found ourselves on the table, and it is a reality with which we will also have to continue to count for many months. This manual of instructions does not exist in us building it, and from here, too, like the country, we have contributed to the better of this scientific evidence that makes us advance and proposes solutions to respect the citizenry. But this fact, far from making us destitute; this pandemic, far from making us destitute of our political action, has confirmed it and has made it clear that our country's citizenship needs more social policies, more rights, more welfare. At a time when this is possible, more resources are needed, sufficient resources are needed to build these social policies, to build and guarantee these rights, and to have a welfare state as the citizens of Catalonia deserve. And more tools, too, of management. And I want to say that all possible management tools will always be necessary for us to manage the epidemic, to manage a welfare state that we have to build as a country, although we have never hoped to have a state in favor of it and that they will accompany us, neither in finance nor in many other structures. I've said it endless times along these years and especially these months: we have full responsibility – all, all – and we have exercised it since the first moment we entered this department, also now, at the most difficult and complicated times, and what we call ourselves, and what we've claimed thousands of times, are all these things – all of them. The answer we got in that pandemic outbreak, we had to react very quickly, we had to make tough and complicated decisions, the first with the containment of the conca d'Odena. The first reaction of the State we had was an alarm state on March 14th, with a vision of the pandemic management far and wide – far and wide – of what we believe and believe needs citizenship. Therefore, it was everything, absolutely everything, and we, based on everything we've been finding and without proposing it as a complaint, we were also managing this pandemic. But if we had to say, on the basis of a recent model, that we could have enough material for our professionals and that we could have the tools to manage, we would certainly still be waiting, and I would have been worse. Therefore, from the first moment we had a first case, in this centralized purchase and in many other aspects of management, which allowed, in those tougher weeks, to be able to maintain the epidemic, to be able to attend to everyone who needed it and to be able to respond on the part of the health professionals to a city that needed it more than ever. The crisis again shows us that it is not only situations of vulnerability, but also social conditions, working conditions, essential work, face-to-face work, many of them girls per woman, who are at greater risk, who are the ones who allow us and put us at the front. If we say that we have to cut the transmission channels and that to do so we need to identify the cases well, identify the cases, identify the contacts and propose these quarters and quarantines, we need to be able to help all the citizens – all the citizens – to make a compliment of the quarantines. And that's not easy when we're working conditions, when we're social, when we can't leave, they can't, and when the special situations of many people don't. And there are so many people in our country who find it difficult. Therefore, it is not a question of keeping it in a written protocol, it is a question of being able to help and gather people who can help complete these quarantines which, at the moment, is the only way we really have to cut the transmission chains. That's why we always complain that when we don't have any skills, but they do have other administrations, that they help us and complement us as the assemblies are doing, as the assemblies of our country are doing, working hand in hand with Greetings, working hand in hand with us, so that we can respond, so that we can get to everything, because the information follows and because we can cut these transmission lines. And the crisis has also shown us how important it is to work for a country that has the highest territorial equity. The right to salvation in the end is the right to an equitable, cohesive society with equal opportunity. We have not hesitated to take steps to protect the right to life and to the salvation of people, and it is essential at times like the one that has touched us living, with uncertainty, with ignorance, that also causes us to act at the same time, that we learn to act better every day. Now, what is the compatible balance between this security, this right to salvation, right to life, and the economic and social activity of our country? We have been looking for it and we are constantly looking for it, this balance – I said before the Council – seventy-eight approved Procicate plans. And that's not a plan to write, it's approved, it's a process and it's approved, it's only seventy-eight sectoral plans for dissected areas of our country's economic and social activity. This means that there are all the social and economic sectors in our country that have also moved to the side of this epidemic to say: how can we do this so that we can develop our activity, but do it guarantee maximum security and the right to people's salvation? And that means a huge job, and that means that there are people out there working in all these economic and social sectors, people in Civil Protection, people in Public Health who have been watching and working hand in hand with all sectors to do the best they can. And this we have to keep, and we said we have to learn to live with this virus. And we need to be able to open the schools, and children and children have this right to continue their learning. And we did. And we've done it working from the hand of the Education Department, from the masters, the masters, the directions of this country, because we can be managing all the educational space at the same time that we still maintain an epidemic situation. And we're doing it. And there are positive cases, and they're alienated and confined to these stable groups, and they're managed, and they're disconnected, and they're back to normal, and they're still learning during these days that they're going to be home. And this will be a constant management that we will have in our own months. And this crisis – as I said – is an inhumane crisis that made us more distant than ever from our loved ones and, therefore, I want to greatly appreciate the effort that people are making to deal with it. And here I coincide with the city deputy when he said it that way. And, therefore, very much in agreement, right? The confidence of the people, the solidarity of the people in the rawest weeks of the confinement, but also to understand what is the situation we have and, that between all and all, between all and all, we are part of the solution and we are part of being able to live together. And we are also then facing this more humane and so necessary part, with also participatory strategies, as we can give an answer to what was first strangled by urgency, it was strangled as we could give an answer to a follow-up at the end of life, to a follow-up when people are admitted, to a follow-up, visits to the great people also to the residences and, therefore, we have opened a strategy participatory to the familiarity of the residences, because we believe it is important to maintain the security of vulnerable people, great people who see the residences, at the same time, who are maintaining all their rights and also the rights of the family. We are faced with difficult times in which solutions fall and the highest determination on the part of all public administrations. And I welcome another time more than how it is working in coordination between the different departments of the Generality, and with the municipalities and other administrations in Catalonia, to make possible this follow-up and tracing of cases and contacts, to be able to cut transmission channels and also reduce the epidemic situation in our country. Covid has been able to change our lives and will do so in the way that we leave it too, and that we do not find these balances, these solutions, among all sectors of society. I could now expand with many figures, but I think I'm just going to be a lot. You know them perfectly, these 147,000 positive people in Catalonia, more than thirteen thousand deaths, 1.8 million PCR tests we've done so far, and everything that we're looking at with a spectacular increase in activity, absolutely all the way: from primary to also day tricks that have gone from five to fifteen thousand and, therefore, also tripled in 061. We may have to manage the system's response to this pandemic impact. Our Catalonian health system has had to adapt, and I think this word is very important. Quickly adapt to work decentralizing. That is why it is contrary to the proposal made by the State in the state of alarm. Decentralized, we give tools, we help in hospitals, in centers, in the directions to which it manages. Because behind the professionals and professionals who are short of bed, who are attentive, there were also people who were managing all these changes, and there are people who are managing all these changes that are also part of the great family of the health system. Therefore, it is to adapt quickly, reinvent and collaborate closely that has touched upon our response. And we have responded to our hospitals adapting, constantly reorganizing primary care – and it must continue to do so – reinforcing public health in a very important way, and today the Government has taken another step, adopting a programme of public health reinforcement and also accelerating this social and health integration. In hospitals, twenty-and-a-thousand beds of hospitalization we had to make available to users, at the disposal of the citizenry, with an increase of more than triple in the beds of ICUs; acquiring two_thousand breathers. To the primary attention, with an activity that, in September 2020, already leans on the one we had the previous year, with some nine-hundred_ thousand visits related to only Covid-19. With this increase in activity that they are doing today, which is so shocking, as the vice president said, with 80_percent of the management of the Covid-19 casuistic..., therefore, this 80_per_cent means that they have increased their overall activity of a 10-15_per_cent, 26_percent of which is Covid-19. Public Health, as the very important – very important – part that has to be and that will also be at these times and during these own months. Epidemiological surveillance systems have been greatly strained, but also health promotion and prevention systems. We have created – we have created –, already in June, a specific unit Covid-19 Catalunya, that beyond the coordinated epidemiological vigilance that was needed from the policies of public salvation and for the control of the epidemic, in all that we needed to reform, to reorganize from the care side; as the typical circuits of Public Health hinder in our system, they went down to the city, with these managers Covid-19 that we went to the primary care, but also we put them to the reinforcement in Public Health. With the collaboration of many experts, in a group that helped us to make the plan of decontainment, of transition to decontainment; decontainment and that new normality that has already been approved that month of April... These very experts who have continued working with us and making the proposals, for example, because we have information solutions, integrated information systems, that are in constant improvement, and because not what has happened to them, for example, so today, the United Kingdom, that it is a sea where we admire the health system, with its National Health Service, its NICE, that it has been found that it is impossible for the Excel to take more records, so that more than seven thousand cases have been lost. So, we know how hard it is to integrate information systems, very difficult, very hard. And want to donate the data on a daily basis, and want to explain everything we can know to the citizenry with data and the way it's close: we know how hard it is. So, we understand how with a whole country like the United Kingdom, something like that could happen to them. We decided that Excels would have to finish, that we would have to have an information system where we could connect all Public Health from the primary, also from hospitals, and finally the citizenry also ended up integrating. And it costs a lot to build, and it has to be built from a pandemic. Also in the area of residences: the residences have shown us the vulnerability above all of the great people before the Covid-19 and also of the great people who live in a residence that was not in any case, as we were none, prepared for a pandemic of these characteristics. More than 1,500 people were displaced, displaced, from the residential centers where they lived so that they could do the sectors and protect these people as much as possible or the others who lived in these residences. The primary care has carried out 305,000 visits to the residences, 60_percent of which face-to-face, where there was a peak of the epidemic that there was intended for eight hundred professionals– eight hundred professionals– ; that's a lot. All this now we are structuring, the attention to residences, from primary care, in an integrated way, because we are already part of this longitudinal primary care for the length of life and of the assigned population that our primary professionals have. Constant cracks according to the epidemiological situation in the residences. A case of residence is declared an outbreak and therefore takes place as soon as possible. We've set 816 points of oxygen and are predicting that we'll probably get to 1,200, too, and that's what came to stay. Also with these policies of cracks that we are implementing, we will see what is the best solution, from now on, to make a resort to residences and to protect as much as possible vulnerable people. And in the policy of cribratges, we have tried, as always, to anticipate us, to advance us always. The screening policy aims to speed up the search for asymptomatic cases, those that we would not find because they do not develop symptoms yet, and perhaps have not developed them, but that they can be transmitters of the Covid-19; this is a way to be able to cut the transmission chains. And a large number of population cracks have been made in cities, target barrels, which we have been able to accompany, which we have been able to organize from primary care, with the support of units, also hospitals in some cases, and also with other supports that make possible all this deployment of very many people – of very many people. Therefore, in these cribrages we also see social complexity; with epidemiological and caring data worrying or growing, that's where we went, that's where we went, that's where we moved, that's where you come to the city. With the start of the course we have also started a policy of population screening using schools. But all this is done if you do it together, and so here, I think I'm going back to saying that this work works together with the assemblies, where it's the people who know the barrels and the cities, know the lives, know how they see, have mediators and mediators who can help us get to the people, have agents of social workers, community agents to pass the information... Without this pot – without this pot – there can be no good follow-up of the epidemic. Therefore, thanks to the joints we also help us at the time to do these school screenings; screenings at schools in territories with very high incidence taxes, with the aim of reaching the community as well. Therefore, this is a very clear strategy not only of children but to reach the community. And a plan of monitoring and evaluation of the Covid with fifty sentinel schools that will allow us to follow the pandemic in educational centers, in collaboration with ICE Global; with our Center of Epidemiological Studies of Catalonia, with an experience of more than twenty-five years in HIV and other transmission diseases; with Sant Joan de Deu and Vall d'Hebron, who have also done their studies on childhood. And an important point for us, which is the empowerment of the citizenry. Councilwoman Budo explained it very well, the communication is not all, there must also have been this transparency. Our obsession – I would say it was in this government – is to give citizens all the information in a transparent and accessible way. It's the only way to take over decisions, it's the only way to keep the city near the time to make joint decisions. The World Health Organization, WHO, establishes that in a pandemic context it can communicate to the citizenry in a clear way, and this is very easy to write and very difficult to know how it can do it, especially when the news is not exactly good and when the data it gives is raw and when you have the peril of falling into numbers and stop thinking that there are people behind. That's why this communication, this transparency, and it's always clear, isn't it? which is the goal of serving the citizenry, is the only one that can guarantee the trust of the citizenry in the health authorities, which is very important and which cannot be lost, and when it is lost I think that the result is bad for any country. And we have examples of the world. We don't want to get out of the way. Therefore, it is very important to link this confidence of the citizenry, to age because the population at risk has all the information necessary to be able to make decisions with knowledge of cause, to minimize the social and emotional effects of the pandemic: wheels of pressing days, as the Councillor said, two times a week now by the Secretary of Public Health, Josep Maria Argimon, and the coordinator of the Unit Covid, Jacobo Mendioroz, and adding other people that at certain times we also consider that we have to explain in the press to the citizenry, therefore, all that we go forward. Publication of data in open data format, because researchers too, not only the citizenry, can equip themselves with these data that the Catalonian health system has to propose solutions, propose strategies and frame their studies. Pioneers on a web of disaggregated data throughout the territory, multiple channels of information to the citizenry for social networks, Telegram channels, also some not only in the face of the citizenry, but specific for professionals, which I think is very important; we did it for health professionals and we have done it now with Health and School, a channel for the citizenry, a channel also for directions and teachers. Risk communication campaigns, shared training and systemic knowledge and specific material for all sectors of the company, for commercial establishments, for restoration establishments because they had no information on how to propose, therefore, these measures of distance, hands, mask in their establishments and their activities. Attention to the pre-eminent user in dealings with a follow-up plan and information to families of patients who were admitted or in hospitals or also in residences. Questions, complaints, emotional management. cat, with the publication also of periodic recommendations for different types of collections to be able to manage this epidemic emotionally. And follow the symptomatology also through the Stop Covid19 app, with a record of people reporting, which I think is at the height of the most powerful and also the most populous and the largest countries. ICT tools like the Stop Covid app, simplifying e-CAP processes, cabdal for professionals – and now look at Jorge Soler. If you can't work better the professionals – many times they summarize it with "we're doing a lot of clicks", stop doing so many clicks to be able to serve better the citizenry, take delays, take bureaucracy help to be able to work better. And if we think about professionals and prioritize, that was a priority. Accelerate integration, which we have been working with command blocks, ICTs for remote assistance for years. The e-consultation has increased from a thousand daily consultations to twelve_thousand visits– twelve_thousand. So it's important. And today we have also been able to explain this digital tool ContacteCovid. cat, who already has more than one thousand SMS sent to suspicious cases, positive cases, who gives them access to a web platform, to a web to identify and follow contacts; that it is a new channel that complements the work and the task of the Covid managers who are on site, and that we need to equip ourselves with all the tools to be able to do this follow-up. I would like to say that the most important part and the most important challenge that we have is this resilience respecting the impact of the Covid, this ability to be able to adapt to these new situations, to reorganize our task in the health system, but beyond the coordinated health system throughout the country. And that means a long answer, too. This means keeping an in-house look in the day-to-day management, but this in-house look always in this far-reaching transformation. Vicuda transformation has shaped our system well. I think it has accelerated us, it has been an accelerator of those transformations that we have already applied, that were written, that the sector already had diagnoses, and in this case it has allowed us to give them that impulse. But all this, we cannot forget in this long time that we need to be able to control the epidemic. It's the best way to manage these middle terms, long terms of the health system, but also from all over the country. Therefore, this plan of control of the epidemic that we presented in July, that we were able to agree with the different sectors working with the different departments of the Generality, that establishes which are the measures for each level of control, that we transparent in maps, with colors, at risk of resurgence, which is the level of control for each place in Catalonia. That all of this, apart from the data, we have a good quality, don't we? What do they mean by these data to establish if certain places have to be established measures, and the measures do not only mean these resolutions of the Process, but also community interventions, in situ cracks and more information to the citizenry. This week this control plan is also presented to the Process, it will be approved by agreement of the Government and I think we can say that we have been able to have this plan of control of the epidemic that establishes a general framework based on technical, epidemiological and care criteria, but also that it allows us, above all, to make decisions in the political field with a solid basis and that guarantees the application of the measures adapted to the whole territory of Catalonia. This is very important, and more so when it is now being questioned, in some places, that political decisions do not go hand in hand with these epidemiological, care, technical, and gathering criteria for experts as well. For us, that was cool, and we started working on it from the beginning. Therefore, I believe it is a very clear bet of the country to establish rigour in this pandemic management, also with the Pla d'enfortiment et transformation de la primaria, which is a structural change of de facto. Of the four programs in this Enforcing and Transformation of Primary Care, of the four programs that there is, one gives an immediate response to the Covid, three of them are structural reforms and transformations that primary care needs. The first of them is a program to support public health activities that the primary has had to assume, as with this close attention that it is deployed to the whole territory of Catalonia. More than EUR 100_million, EUR 107_million to cover the functions and tasks delegated to primary care, such as, therefore, the organisation of screenings, support for schools, vigilance for people with respiratory diseases who are able to cope with the Covid, as well as the management of the consumption of personal protective equipment to be provided by the primary care professionals, and we also remember that a total of 1,328 Covid managers and 394 primary care references have been incorporated. The second is the program of attention to chronicity: 626,000 people in Catalonia have a very high risk compared to the Covid; 1,200,000 more people have a high risk compared to the Covid. It's 1,800,000 people, getting involved in a square of approval of this high and very high risk of mortality and complications for the Covid. It is therefore vital that, from primary and community care, proactively apply defined prevention actions and protocols for the care of these people's health, which are the most fragile, which the Covid can compromise much more their state of health. We've sent a total of 796,676 SMS addresses to the community, to people at risk where they've been cracking, where they've been acting. This we did for the first time in the Segria, therefore, to alert the most at-risk people of the situation that there was, and to propose, above all, preventive measures. The program also plans to incorporate nursing and nutrition professionals, enhance the role of the nurse with this nursing demand management incorporating new profiles like the TCAI, which was in some CAPs, but in a very residual way, and this will allow to redistribute tasks and make a work of more value for each professional profile. This is a total of 72_million euros also laid in this chronicity care program. Also a programme of assistance to residents of nearly 40 million euros with the objective that primary care is adequately scaled up and that it has sufficient resources to meet the needs of this population. More than four hundred professionals are already structurally dedicated to the care of residents. And the management and technology support program, which seeks to maximize the skills of the management staff, while also causing this transformation, this organizational change of all teams. More than €50 million in technology to increase digital telephone accessibility, improve telemedicine, and this means hubs, i.e. IP lines, i.e. mobile, and i.e. to change the organisation of primary care centres, because never with the work being done by primary professionals, citizens can perceive a loss of proximity, a loss of accessibility. This is important, and this I think is working to strengthen this health system even more. And then, obviously, it is up to us to make a strengthening of public salvation to our country. We approved in this Parliament the Law of the Public Health Agency of Catalonia. We said that we wanted the 21st century Public Health Agency, the one that looked to the future, to all the changes there are, from climate change to all the social determinants of salvation, which involve public health policies, with capitals, and towards the community. We increase human resources, we improve and deploy information systems that are also able not only to record what is done, but to be given in cold, but also to trace, to cut transmission channels in the case of the epidemic, and that can also take on a large volume of data. We were not prepared to follow a large amount of data for an epidemic of these characteristics, and we have to do so, but this will be a process of continuous improvement. The Health Department's Contingency Plate held a rapid response group in the first few weeks on the technical staff of the department, from other departments of the Generality took on tasks of assistance to Public Health. At those complicated times, the country had stopped and we needed those people who are public servants working in the Generalitat de Catalunya, to go to Salut, to be in the field of public salvation or not, or in any other unit, to be in other departments, to be able to work on the side of Public Salvation. One hundred and five people in the peak, one hundred and twenty of them supporting residents. Now it's time to structure all this. Through a public health program that we approved on June 2, we created one hundred and eight more places, in this case of doctors, epidemiologists, nurses, and also statistical and statistical. In July and August they incorporated twenty more effects that are concentrated in health regions where there have been outbreaks. And today I'm also willing to explain that in the next few weeks we're incorporating up to six hundred people into the epidemiological surveillance service with two objectives. The first, which we have already brought to the government, strengthens prevention actions, especially to the residences of great people, but also in those work centers, where we have to stay, where we say to them: "Participate with us in this prevention to avoid the infection of your businesses, your unit, the residence. All-round prevention policies. Therefore, two futures: strengthen prevention actions especially in these large and other people's residencies and, two, expand the tracing system to improve the tracing and search for the origins of the buds. We have a position, we search for their contacts, we size transmission chains and we want to strengthen even more which is the origin of this position, we search for the origin and try to cut the contact chains forward and backward. These public health programs are cabals and mark this line of work that the next few years will continue with strength. The public health policies that had so much been claimed, that so much – Members and Members, you said that she was always the poor German woman of the health policies – are now more on the agenda than ever before and, moreover, we give an answer from the Government of the Government of Catalonia. These people, therefore, who have been working and many times more silently on... or those applause from the city on the eve of the evening, may not know that they were also applauding all and each of the public health professionals who have been tireless in this epidemic. And, therefore, I want to thank all this work, very quiet, many times very unknown to the citizenry. Now they know each other, don't they? , which is an epidemiology, and may occur epidemiology [[the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United ……]] all over the place, too. But it is true that it was a very quiet point of the policies of salvation, but we have seen that it is fit. Therefore, an immense gratitude to all the people who are working in public salvation. And then we have a setback, which I think has also been pointed out in the intention of this House, that it is the care processes and how we recover the activity. This is an incredible challenge. This is a setback that didn't happen in two months. And this is a challenge we have to face with the country. And that's why we're in the Parliament of Catalonia. And here we will have to find all the consensus and all the opportunities so that this recovery can become as fast as possible, the most intense and that we put all the effort between everyone and everyone. By 2019, all the activity of neoplasms and heart surgery was guaranteed. Surgical interventions of cataracts, maluc, genoll, which are other procedures that we also have with time guaranteed, were in 94,4_per_cent. And the rest of the surgical interventions with reference time complete it in more than 90_per_cent. A lot of this activity has to be postponed. Obviously, the most urgent is not long, but for two months the stop at our centers was incredible and not only surgical interventions, but also these specialist consultations to be able to diagnose health problems and these diagnostic tests that close these diagnostics. Therefore, the impact of Covid was clear. There is a presuppositional impact, but there is an impact on the daily activity of the very powerful and very strong health system. Overall, 20 per cent of surgical interventions were delayed. So right now, we have a lot of work to do. And it's very important – and that's why we marked it as one of our goals – to control the epidemic at levels that allow us to maintain all the care activity that is not Covid. Since the month of May we are gradually recovering activity. A progressive recovery, obviously, framed in levels of the most critical and for clinical criteria. And, therefore, it is faster or more priority in neoplastic processes, cancers and cardiology. But our priority is to have this recovery from all activity not only from that most urgent, but also from time of guarantee, but also from time of referrals. This period of more than three months is a constant recovery of everything that has been held up. This is why August, in August, doubled the activity and is contemplating that until disembark we can maintain the 100_per_cent of the activity. And it's very important that we explain to the citizenry why it's key to keep this epidemic on track. Maintain transmission in controllable and manageable levels. Because we can maintain all the activity of other health problems, which we also have as citizens and citizens. This is why – and here I will resolve some of the concerns of the deputy – the individual protection teams, we already have a stock of four months, more than 113 million units, because, in this aspect, we can work in spite of the Covid, we can maintain all the activity, we can separate circuits and we can be managing, therefore, this complexity, which is very much. The economic quantification of this crisis is important. The contingency plan is almost 900_million euros with strategic reserve of equipment, with reinforcement of equipment to the primary attention, with EPI, with, also, the entire area of the medicine, increase of capacity of PCR, extramural medical spaces, that is, outside the usual centers, investments, programs of support to the residences, cabdals. But let's not leave ourselves, either, all the research and innovation pot that has been as active as the country during the Covid, so active that we're the only one we've ever had to do is, come, throw us away, coordinate all the projects that were there. We drew a call for projects to fight the Covid of 4_million euros, with dynou projects selected. And we have important data on how research, how innovation will be part of this present and future of the health system in Catalonia and throughout the country. Last week, Biocat did, so, too, an act explaining the figures. The sciences of life and salvation should become one of the tractors of our economy, too, because they become tractors of progress, of progress as country, generate added value, generate wealth. Richesa. And wealth isn't just money, but it's rich in welfare, rich in progress, rich in labor, rich in knowledge, rich in talent capture at home and abroad. The report says there are more than a thousand businesses and a wide range of hospitals, research centers and universities that confirm this BioRegio in Catalonia. 31_per_cent – and that's what I want to say and I want to say it with a smile that maybe you don't want to, but [[the speaker laughs]] the trauré –, 31_percent of CEOs and founders of entrepreneurs in the health sector since 2008 are women. And you say: "Is it a 31 and are you smiling? You're the one who's always been down. And this 31, the only one that is, is the step to be much more. And so, yes, we want to take more steps and we want to smile at every step we take – I think it's important. The health sector is key to the country, the health sector has many powerful women and the health sector gives opportunities. One hundred and twenty million euros in international investment, which is more than we had in 2019, and that does not happen in sectors of society, unfortunately. Therefore, it is a challenge that we share, as also in these European reconstruction foundations, to present projects in the field of life sciences and health and also innovation, with this vision of system and government, to generate this rich project of great magnitude that can be about 20, 30_million euros. And this will allow us to continue capturing talent, to position ourselves internationally as a hub of this sector, therefore, in Europe, and, in this case, where we are located. It is clear – I have said it many times – that collaboration and coordination and active listening with the citizenry is also with the local world, and therefore everything that we learn from participatory strategies with the local world, all contacts with mayors and mayors of our country, regional councils, other administrations, have remained central and vitally important in this management. Participatory strategy, which I have commented on before, with around the people living in the residences, where we care, and very much, take into account their opinion and their experiences. We can only build good health policies if we listen to the citizenry. Therefore, our will is clear, very clear, and I think we can say that it has been seen in the management of this government. And I want to answer for the spaces of all the people who work in the Health Department, who may not have followed the cause of applause either, because it is also an unknown job, but without them and all this management – all this management – that it is ingenious, that it is impossible to do, in good time, without rest and with a professionalism, indeed, that they are immense. Therefore, a thank you to all the people who work at the Health Department, the Català Health Service, the Public Health Agency, also in the management framework of the entire health system, of all the organizations and even the last professional salvation of our country. That's the will. We– and nobody escapes, and therefore I say nothing again– want a republic of citizens and citizens free and empowered. And I think we'd have to answer in moments with that look, it couldn't be anything else. We don't answer with scripts or flags or shoes. I think we have responded by looking at the face of the citizenry, always, explaining the same thing that we know, exactly the same, creating spaces of dialogue with the whole sector, based, above all, on professionals. Therefore, we always work thinking about this health system of Catalonia present, but also building the health system of the future. And the future means a more firm bet than ever to boost primary care, which is above and above our country and which is the closest to the citizenry, and which, when it touches, we must make investments, too, given that in many years we have not been able to do as it did, to build spaces that are also managed by hospitals, spaces that allow us this polyvalence, that allow us now to manage the Covid but after a management also accurate of everything that comes to us in the health system in this changing world, we also consolidate these spaces. With an impact on the finances that we have not rejected, because economic activity has stopped, and what we have had to put in place resources for the management of the €5,000_million pandemic, is a clear impact. And we can't face this expense that we have more social policies, more right, more welfare, no more resources and all of them. So, that's why I shouted at an alliance to end chronic infra-financing, and I think the vice president explained it very well. We have to be critical of the previous, poorly named normality; not of any kind, of normality. A global system that reproduces and perpetuates gender inequalities, social inequalities, class inequalities or any other condition cannot be normal. Therefore, we want to make the culture of the common good an indispensable tool for the construction of this future in the republic. This culture of the common good I believe has a maximum exponent in the Catalonian health system, a strong, powerful, progressive health system, which is also a guarantor of one of the most important basic rights of the citizenry and most valued throughout the city. It is clear that we have an opportunity with the country, that in this crisis of the common good it has become more concrete than ever, that it has materialized in the public services that the administrations must be able to provide, like the health system. And it's our protective net, protecting equality, equity, social justice, values without which democracy is degraded, and with it our rights and freedoms. Therefore, with this agenda of transformation that we have already built for the future, with this plan of strengthening clearly in the policies of public salvation that today we have announced and approved also to the Government, maintain and develop a system of universal public salvation – universal – that not everyone in this chamber voted a yes to universal salvation – and now I see that above the deputy of Ciutadans. But it is true, they abstained, in one of the basic characteristics of the health system of Catalonia, universal, that seeks quality, that seeks equity, oriented to the citizenry, transparent, sustainable, efficient and attractive, attractive to the professional – and this we try..., and we are putting the utmost effort, and we will not fail to do it. We must prevent this crisis from weakening... On the contrary – on the contrary – this crisis is not just on the mark that we need to protect the health system but will be strengthened, and that is why we are in the best room to be able to discuss all this. Republican values of not letting anyone back, and that we strive daily as a government to maintain and improve this health system of Catalonia with these fundamental values. First, because they are the fundamental values of the system that we want to continue having in this impulse that we will give to it our own years, but also from here to God, twenty-three years. And in this we will continue to work tirelessly. I'm pretty sure. Very grateful to this chamber. I really hope that, as the Vice President and Councilwoman Budo say, we can have a debate that is going to be, a constructive debate, a rigorous debate, we can have our demagogies, we can strengthen between all of us and all of this system of salvation. We honor our words, which we always give in this Faristol, to support the professionals; we honor by proposing agreements, by proposing solutions. Honor us, I believe that citizenship is asking us as representatives of all of us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, we continue the debate with the interventions of the representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups to fix their position, for a maximum of thirty minutes for the group and fifteen minutes for the sub-group. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of Grup Parlamentari de Ciutadans, the deputy Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.10.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, Vice-President of Parliament. He used to say hello to the president in office, but he's not there. Counselor, the other counsel has also left... counsel, therefore, deputies and deputies and people who are surely following this Ple carefully. Today is a very important day for this Parliament, today is also a very important day for Citizens. As you know, we asked to have this Pleth of urgent character, because of its importance, in July, and we asked it in accordance with the majority in votes and disclaimers that it allowed us to do so, and to agile to the maximum this Pleth by the import it had, in anticipation of what it could pass to September. We asked for this in July one day, another day, but, well, you didn't have any interest in having this plenary until October. In fact, we did have other urgent plenary sessions. In fact, we came here urgently in August to have a ple that ended with Mr. Torra's indictments and referrals to the functioning and removals of this chamber, but we did not have the ple of coronavirus that we demanded from July with urgency precisely to be able to get stronger, more cohesive and closer to September. Basically, because we're already in October, when Catalonia was hit without mercy. And we believe – and, to that end, we add – that we are going to reach agreement and consensus across this room to be stronger in order to have a better health system, because we believe that this is what Catalans need, because we believe that this is what Catalans want. And to remember in a plethora how this was the health situation before this epidemic. Remember those times and those interventions that we did from the time of the scene in times of influenza, in times of hospital collapses, in times when we denounced how they were from rubber to rubber the pasts of hospitals. May I remind you of all the details you've done years ago that you haven't turned back yet. It is worth remembering the lack of coverage of the holidays of the professionals. It may be recalled that it is not a substitute for professionals when there are falls and diseases. It may be worth recalling that central demand for primary care, certainly shared among all groups in this chamber, but unfortunately it is not yet a reality and far from coming. May I remind you of the proposals and proposals of all the parliamentary groups, especially the opposition in this House and in the Committee on Health which have not yet seen the light and will certainly never see it. I wanted to tell Mrs. Budó, that, as always, when she speaks Ciutadans has other tasks to do more important..., Mrs. Budó, from the office where I imagine she will be following this Ple so as not to see her face: you rewrite the story – you rewrite the story. Because on March 10, my president, Mr. Carrizosa, and I went to Palau de la Generalitat in an urgent way, called urgently, and we did it for a reason and it was that we understood that the urgency, the urgency of what came from, the gravity of what was going on, first to Xina, then to Italia, then to Madrid, was as important as for us leaving our differences – that they are obvious and that we do not need to assign them a minute more, we have them –, we left them behind and went to Palau de la Generalitat, accompanying Mr. Carrizosa. And you rewrite the story, because there were some who told you that what was going on was very difficult and that what was going on in Catalonia was very difficult. And I didn't say that either, didn't Mr. Carrizosa say that, that also, it's that even company of their separatist formations said that now I think some have forgotten and lost memory. The companies who accompanied us with the opposition also said so. God of March, Mrs. Budo, you say it's all under control here. I won't talk more about the tweets, I won't talk more about the disaster, but I think it's unfair to rewrite the story of what happened after March 10th, because the confinement arrived and we gave thanks to the professionals, to all the essential workers we gave thanks. And yes, indeed, counsel, first we applauded all of the balconies on time at eight o'clock in the afternoon. Then some of us had the honor of being able to do it from Parliament's escho. I've done it many times since my sco, but I've always said that applauding was necessary, but it wasn't enough. I remember the tricks of the professionals, of the companies, who were calling me those afternoons, those nights. I especially remember the tricks of those who wept, because they were in those photos that sent me for WhatsApp, parapets in brush bumps, visiting the emergencies, will advise. I remember the material being sent back to me. I remember when they complained, worried about the lack of material and the total collapse arrived. I remember well the street Naomi and some of her resident directors, who were calling in desperate tears; the directors' tricks, representatives of all kinds, asked us for help and often no one was on the phone. They were asking for help. Some questions, I personally treated them directly with the council. They were terrible masses as to be able to even drive them in resolution proposal format. And, of course, I've always been on the other side of the phone, and, of course, many of those questions, too hard, have been solved. And also, as a result of this work, we have put forward many proposals for a resolution, and since the first day, already to Palau de la Generalitat on March 10, with Deputy Carrizosa, already from the first day, from the escho, we have extended your hand. How many times have you heard me say it here in Parliament: more extensive than Ciutadans, from the first party in Catalonia, with more votes and more votes, to work with you. More extended from the first day to collaborate, first to save lives and then to save savings. I take this opportunity to thank so many associations, entities, representatives, who have helped us make proposals. I take this opportunity to express my condolences, especially to Dr. Barea's family, a pediatrician who worked with my team in many motions for resolutions that have been tabled in this Parliament and also that have been worked at national level in my group have been thanks to the work and effort of Dr. Barea, who died a few days ago, by coronavirus. [[Addressing Carlos Carrizosa Torres.]] I felt so much about your father's death. You know I followed her, especially and sadly close, Carlos. Thanks, again, to all the professionals who faced death, because a lot of people died alone, health care workers also died. My condolences also to the families who have lost a family member because of the pandemic. Let them all rest in peace. Because, they imagine that they have had a great health system – a great health system. I've felt it here many times. But we didn't have a great health system. We had a lot of professionals in the health system, but not a great health system, because we had a tense system, at the point of making water, squeeze, bone. Can you imagine that you've got to reverse the clippings? Can you imagine that time has been set aside to improve the financing system, Mr. President-in-Office? Is that what you're imagining? We still have much lower health assumptions than it was intended for Salut in 2010– much lower–, and you still come to Parliament and explain to us that you dedicate more millions to Salut when you still assume less millions than you actually did in the previous year's exercise. Yeah, yeah, isn't that it, Counselor? Present a premise with less millions than the exercise performed from the previous year. Tomorrow I assume you can replicate, Mr. President in office. You could have gone to inter-territorial meetings when you were asked to. In fact, I myself have offered myself, many times; if I had sent you to Madrid, I would have been there, or any of my companies, to defend the general interests of all Catalans. It's about empowering the professions, the waiters, and you didn't do it. It's been years since you've ruled the health care system, and I just feel like you're complaining about the others. The fault, often, is of Ciutadans, or of the Socialists, or of the Popular Party, or of Madrid, but never had a point of self-criticism. But people already know you. Actually, he's got some good words. Music sounds good, but the truth is that your political project is not a priority. Mass years do nothing, because you are for other questions. People know the consequences of your inaction to the health system and the economy, often inseparable. You've forgotten the workers. You neglected the waiting list. You have not placed the health system on the government's priority. Everyone knows in Catalonia what the government has dedicated itself to. Counselor, you are not ready to lead this pandemic. You don't know the system. You have had a pandemic without the Director of the Public Health Agency, because you resigned them; you have resigned them from the General Secretariat for the pandemic, and the Director of the Quality Agency. We got out of the good system managers, but not from you. You're the one who should have resigned, simply for a principle of prudence. A fundamental principle to life, prudence; a fundamental principle, especially to the health system. Unfortunately a fundamental principle in the management of a crisis and an epidemic. Counselrera, fire sorollets, but no self-criticism. Any kind of self-criticism? It doesn't really weigh in your consciousness, does it? In a speech as long as you've made, and no excuse at all? Counselor, have you never thought of the proposals of the other groups, on the other side of the hemisphere, that you do not get used to, you, nor do you ever see? Doesn't it burden your conscience to never accept the extended hand of opposition, the loyal hand? You think it's nice to give your hand to someone you know doesn't have a priority for the health care system, because it wasn't for us. And I'll make you a confession – I think Mr. Carrizosa already hinted to you – : the day I asked you, directly, for our proposals, to the plenary, since my school, the disappointment I felt, because that day represented more than one thousand of my voters – more than one thousand. I thought about them. I remembered the tricks of the companies, crying, from the ICUs, the technicians of the ambulances, of many centers of primary care. Desperation was incredible. The representatives of associations of malalts. Very concrete cases that came to me suddenly to memory. And you here recognized us so calmly that you did not read the opposition proposals. Is it true that no – no – was good, of all, of the many that were presented, no was good? Why don't you want consent? We want to offer you help, collaboration. Can I really look patients in the face knowing it could be more? And you're talking about looking at the eyes? You? It means that some proposal, I imagine, of the CUP, of the People's Party, of the commons or of the PSC, not to say Ciutadans, really could not be useful as because it is worth reading, at least read them? Really? Thinking of the dead, the sick, the sick, the sick, the sick... I can't understand you, but we'll still be out of hand. But there will be many questions left to answer from this management, from this harmful management. For example, why did you allocate €18_million to a private company to track? Or why, when they give you help from the central government, do you want to reject it? People died; people were begging for disinfection. And you're going to preface the party ideology that was the common good. An unacceptable thing in politics! Mr. Aragones, why did you leave the catalan empty chair when they were talking about financing? Why? Then you come here and you complain? Or, Counselor, why did you leave the empty catalan chair in Salut? And then you came here and talked about public safety? Awesome! Why opacity in care indicators or waiting list? Why? Or why do you want to confine Lleida and not the hospital? Or say it another way, why did Lleida really confine her? Why are there so many contradictions, counsel? You, Counselor, should not speak as you speak of public salvation. Not you. Why do you want to play with the leaders of Public Health? First with Dr. Guix, leaving us unrepresentative of Public Health in the midst of the epidemic. Then, with Dr. Jacobo Mendioroz. Then we saw the average, that of the sock that went from TV to TV. We all thought – in fact, that's what he said – that was his replacement. To the finale, Mr. Torra, you see he didn't dare. And finally, Mr. Torra imposed Dr. Argimon. By the way, how certain did Mr. Torra do, huh? This I want to recognize, the difference has been noticed. Have you asked what will happen to the ills not since the past few months? Or why didn't you want to learn all the caring capillary of community-based pharmaceutical companies establishing synergies? Two thousand pharmacies doing an impressive job on all the streets of Catalonia. Thanks to them too. Or the shame – which you have here, Mr. President in office – the shame of the extra complement to the workers. He's not happy at all. How did you manage and deal so badly? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The cleaners in the rooms didn't do an extra job? Undoubtedly, it was an economic recognition, but not the shame you did. Let's talk about the future, too. (Pause.) Because you've been summoned vaguely. First, the resident doctors, to the Parliament. And the councilwoman didn't even get them. In fact, we had the luck that they coincided... thanks to the fact that we had invited them from the opposition, because it coincided just at the entrance. Almenys went to address the word two minutes. You didn't throw them away! You've already summoned the vacancy of the statutory, labor and functioning staff of the ICS. And the motius, the limited situation in which you find yourself serving the primary staff, with a vacancy on 13, 14, 15 and 16 October already called. And they're asking you for access, asking you not to force visitors. Do you remember those lists I assigned to you at the start of the legislature? I was teaching them to you, and you were getting angry, and I thought they were lying. So, miri, you're out of business. Or the continued attention, with the freedom of custody; collect them decently. Remuneration issues, with some pay differences compared to other communities that are totally inadmissible. Or asking for diagnostic tests. Or the presuppositional guarantee of the agreements. Look for self-criticism and less electoral promises like we heard today, because it's no longer Citizens who tell you that things are bad. He gave it to you at the start of the legislature and you denied it. Until 2018, they're gonna give you a break. I'm already the most vague councillor in the health care system. They carry years with a terrible workload and many times inconsumable. After that wave of the 18th, it seemed that the thing could improve a little, but its failure of the pacts was flagrant. With the arrival of the Covid, the thing has only made it worse than the one that was already ill. Patients do not deserve to have workers with this level of overload, with the unworthy agendas they have and still often threaten, insult and, when not, assault. There's enough to attack the health workers! That's enough! And you will be the advisor to the waves because they have also called another wave the workers of the sanitary transport from the 9th of October, because the CatSalut has not complied with the tariff agreements that they had granted to deconvocate the previous wave. The workers have the right not to retaliate their wages in the current epidemic. And we are concerned about the future, because we need to worry about confined pathology, invisible pathology. The terrible breast cancer; what's going to happen now that it's not being cracked in some places? What are we going to do with all the pathology, if there were, as Congressman Carrizosa said, 824,000 patients on the waiting list! How many will there be now? How many important questions remain for us to resolve. And I also take advantage to give institutional support now to Vanessa, Barcelona, the sea of the Leire and the little Julen. This little guy affected by neuroblastoma, a childhood cancer. And the mother has written to us all explaining that she has been struggling for two years with this evil, and she asks Parliament to gather us. Do not forget all these very important singularities of the health system. Think strength in the educational centers, in their future. Of course I do! Because there are already closed centers, confined areas. We all know the organizational difficulty, which is patenting the directors and their teachers. The files on the street, the difficulty for extracurriculars, the danger of sending the godparents to the exit of the collar. We protect schools, we protect opinions, our children, we protect learning opportunities. And we are obviously talking about primary care, because before the pandemic there are already 170,000 daily visits. And around 80_per_cent were present, with the patient at the consultation. And during the confinement, everything changed. The prioritization of the most urgent cases and the care security have changed everything. Now there are 175,000 daily visits, but only 35_per_cent are seen. The rest are telephones and on the internet, with 140,000 daily tricks, phone lines col·lapsades. Well complicated interviews, the loss of all non-verbal information, videoconferencing, lack of exploration..., an unsustainable balance – or hardly sustainable. It would have provided resources for primary care. Effectius, counselor, not with promises as always. Here we have voted many times, here we have all made great speeches betting for primary care. In fact, our first youth was to empower primary care, which came out unanimously approved. Because there is a brutal deficit, because there are still closed centers, because there are many places without covering, because it is necessary to enhance rural medicine, because it is necessary to donate and bet protection measures with material, PCR tests, serological tests and a long etc. Because we know that the waiting list has been a priority for Ciutadans, and it has been given to you in all control sessions since the start of the legislature. We introduced a law that you fell down, which I intended to improve, that not only extend my hand to all the political forces, but also to the great professionals who were out there, because they came here to Parliament, to legislate with us the best of the waiting list, but separatism was what it was, and you were going to fall it. How many patients must be waiting now? , with the inequalities in the territory there, with people trying to call to schedule a visit and no one answers them, with what accessibility, because we are at the top in surgical waiting days, with 132 days – certainly the Canaries are worse, with 147. Because we're at Cua for a visit to the hospital, because we're at Cua because you're spending political time on issues that aren't going to fix this. Disabte, October 10, commemorates World Day of Mental Health and every year promises and more promises, but patients still need to ensure access to treatment, with the frequency and intensity that scientific evidence gathers. There's not enough discrimination and stigma. One year ago, exactly one year ago, here, MP Navarro, a member of our formation, a psychiatrist of profession, presented a motion of the highest extent, of the highest quality, but it is still the same. Every year there are many people who live their lives. Suicide is preventable with professional support, with a good health system, with a good network. And what has the government done since then? Res. It was obvious that the pandemic would not only make the situation worse: confinement, loneliness, for, patience, death, uneaten burials... We all have people who are close to being painted at home, at home locked up, without going out, and that the heat would help professionally, but their shoal hasn't arrived. And in questions of social protection I'll get in there a little, because it's too hard to talk about it. What happened to the residences? My fellow Member has explained it many times. What happened to the residences, Congresswoman? No one will ever forget what happened: a government that discovered pandemic enmig that residents needed health care – pandemic enmig! And we're just going to see your scales, with no self-criticism – neither today – of this, no self-criticism of what happened to the residences. Fi. What happened to the people, simply, who were on the street? With your government, people were on the road. What happened to the times that you're sleeping on the street in Lleida? Did you find out in August that Lleida is sleeping next to the Elisis Camps? He found out about the pandemic, really – really? You're unfortunate. And you didn't help them and they went on the road. (Pause.) In Cappont, yes, tomorrow you come out and fight it again; in Cappont, yes, concretely in Cappont, next to my house. Of the professionals, a little more to add to the burden of the Catalan professionals. We've got the professionals exhausted. This is what Dr. Godia, my career partner, wrote to Segre: "We are exhausted and very concerned, but not only because we do not have the minimum and necessary resources to allow us to carry out a quality task or because we need to reorient the needs of the tasks carried out to the consultation as all the bureaucracy that has become the majority of the day-to-day: electronic receipts, job downloads, reports, certificates..., but also because all this ends up affecting the patient, who needs to be able to attend, escorted or valued, explored, diagnosed and treated with quality, and not in the few minutes that leave us with the rest of the tasks. It's just that a lot of health care workers are thinking about taking a break. And Catalonia was the autonomous community with more details to Greeting, Convergence and Republican Left. And they must remember all of you the slogan of "Retails in salvation kill; woe if they kill. And I think everybody's seen what's going on in the middle of the epidemic. With every time less professional in the system, with workers who are sick and not replaced, because we are very far from recovering the system previewed to the retail, and it was no longer a very well equipped system. Between 2010 and 2017 it was reduced the staff by 4,909 professionals, but other institutions in Catalonia well that have been growing, and I do not want to concrete what structures have been growing, but Hi no, Hi no has not grown. You often talk about infirmary, but more than 23,000 are needed to get closer to the European race. And you're talking about the altar of the infirmaries here today; it's that of the altar they didn't, the one they didn't have was their actual support, that of their government. Because they fall more professionally into primary care to get close to the rest of Europe, because precariousness is unacceptable. And no one can be surprised by the percentages of infected between workers, protected with brush bumps. Called a system of public health fort and we didn't have it. We had a very low ICU ratio. It meant, in short, a compromise with professionals, and we commit ourselves to measures of safety, comfort and gratification. We will therefore make a presentation of two cross-cutting health proposals. We believe that we need to make a health-care approach in all policies, because there are obviously proposals that cannot be fully covered. And, therefore, we will not make a government presentation today. I wish that very soon we have an extensive government presentation led by Mr Carrizosa, but today we will focus on Covid, on many of the themes that are simply well known from Ciutadan because here we have manifested many times, with historical demands girls in the plenary, in control sessions, in motions, in resolution proposals that go from proposals to recognize professionals to primary care, to the list of hope and transparency, to mental health, to specific measures to combat, of course, the Covid ; ambulances, pharmaceuticals, emergencies, education. We need to talk a lot, Mrs De la Calle, of course, about residences or social protection. How many times have you been here explaining to the government all these shortcomings and haven't fixed them? Or economy and knowledge transfer? It's also very important to move forward. [[Pause.]] Mr Vice-President, finally, I insist on giving thanks to all those who have helped us to prepare the proposals: associations, representatives, ills and a long etc. Thanks to the journalists, especially the one you want to follow the minute to the minute of the pandemic, always on the phone. Thank you to the team that has been with me for years: advisors, press, collaborators, affiliates, directors, deputies. Some I am no longer at home, many others yes; I don't have to say names, but you all know who I am, everyone always working through the health system: thank you very much for the work. Thanks, in a ple as today, also to the spokesman of the other formations : Assumed, always precise in the appraisals ; Marta, passionate with the themes, with the last laws that we have worked, Lluís, the elegance personified ; Gemma, with you we have worked good laws, I think that in the end we can be happy with the work done ; Santi, your speeches are always magnificent, you know that we always listen to them wire per run, and, Vidal, your ability to work so as to recognize that it is impressive and your ability to defend the health system is also impressive. And, therefore, I want to thank you all, because this Ple is a plethora sought and requested for Citizens to find consensus, transversal consensus. We listen well, we read carefully the proposals that come from the professional sector. There are documents with concrete proposals, with decades, with priority measures, that can give them special attention. We can never forget the main axes of the great health consensuss. But this is all of them, too, thank you to all of them. But in all the groups, in all the questions, we still have long visions and postures, but we believe that consensus is what Catalans want, it is what Catalans demand from us, it is what Catalonia needs now itself. I don't think we can lower the guard. They take great care of the residents, the great people, the people with sickness and risk. Look what's going on around us, in Europe, and closer, including Parliament. The next few weeks will be very complicated again. You can follow the recommendations of the professionals. Remember the flu vaccine in the indicated collections. I can take good care of the professionals. So thank you, again, to all of them. Force all of them. And to all, thank you, President, Members, Members, President-in-Office, Councillors and Councillors. In my last term, he always said: "Medicine will be human or it won't be medicine. That's exactly what it's worth for today. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, she has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.12.0	Thank you, Vice President. I begin the intervention by recalling the victims of the Covid, their families, their friends and recognize the efforts of the professionals who have fought and are fighting in the first line against this pandemic. I've said it a lot for weeks, but we think I should insist on it because it's not over. Methgeses and meths, nurses and nurses, personnel of the health system, emergencies, social services, pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals, movements, safety nets, professionals of the communication media, workers and workers of basic services, of the food chain, neteja, transports, the same services of the Parliament, all those that made possible the continuity of our activities in these difficult circumstances imposed by the pandemic and that continue to do so in different scenes. Therefore, begin by explaining our gratitude, our recognition. Many thanks to them and to them. I would also like to mention those citizens who, overtaken the Covid-19 in the most acute phase, are still struggling to be able to return to a certain normality, with disabling pathologies in many cases. We don't forget them; we don't forget the more than 1,500 daily infected we still have. That a certain normality, that a desire to be there doesn't make us forget or relax. They owe us and they owe us. The crisis we have experienced has some dramatic figures, and we are also living them. The 174,000 confirmed cases they gave; 13,423 men and women who have lost their lives, half of them in residences. Miquel Iceta said in this Faristol with a specific plethora on the health crisis: "A crisis of this nature we do not have to turn it into a camp subscribed to by the partisan struggle, and this implies sometimes making an effort of containment, and I want to do it by responsibility and conviction. With a certain perspective on the evolution and action of the Government of the Generality and some other Government, his appeal to responsibility and contention fell into the void. It's a health crisis without precedents and the world. Today, the WHO said that it valued that there might be 780 million infected people in the world, even though official figures are 35 million and more than 1 million dead. This shows us the magnitude of this disease, as shown by the growth in Europe and Spain at these times. Governments, at all levels, have deployed and continue to adopt health, social and economic measures to minimize the effects of the pandemic and with the priority objective of protecting health; a collective effort that must also be accompanied by the personal responsibility of every citizen, who has required and requires solidarity, coordinated work and cooperation of the society and all its institutions. From the very first moment the Socialist Group and Forward Units said: it is necessary to add effort, to work together, to bring about loyal cooperation and coordination among all levels of government. And it is true that leiiness does not exclude criticism, but it does exclude the use of criticisms and discrepancies to raise walls. What is needed is to build bridges to help adjust decisions. A loyalty that we have found to be lacking in the Government, no longer only respects the Government of Spain. And I wouldn't want to remind you again of the councillor's shameful vote on the side of Diaz Ayuso or Catalonia's delay in putting the Covid radar on the march. I'm surprised we don't have the Covid radar on board, but now they're sending us a text message, which has made me a lot more comfortable. But also the locals, much as Councilwoman Budo has said. The gatherings found themselves alone, found themselves alone in this crisis, and without clear instructions for fighting the pandemic, and what is harder is that they have moved the problem to their resolution. That's when the Home Councilman doesn't open up saying that the blame is on the joints, because that's something he's doing over and over again. It's not over. And that's the reality. And we see it doing a rest of the indicators, because we're deputies and deputies, but we also know, we analyze the data and the reality. We know, analyze and propose, in a positive way, from cooperation and responsibility. Another thing is that they want to listen to us and complete what's approved here. She spoke before the councillor, not only of confirmed cases, but of the names of PCRs that have taken place. I'm worried about the positivity index, a 8.09 index today, which is a high index; with a rebound risk of 215,1, and a reproduction rate of 1,15. The rate of the last fourteen days is 200 per cent_1,000 inhabitants. Concern, it's a high rate. That means we should be locating two thousand people per day; 200 by 10, two thousand people per day. And the doubt that we're locating contacts is very obvious. Today we have 842 admissions, 172 to the ICU; we do not have hospital pressure, but there is a lot, too much pressure for primary care. As one of his professionals put it, as the pressure is not in hospitals, there seems to be no such thing. Later I will talk again about primary care, as many have done here, the deputy who preceded me and also the members of the government, his role in controlling, preventing and addressing the pandemic, the role of his professionals and how they have reached the limit. We're in a second phase of virus control. It does two_months that we are stagnant around more than 1,000, 1,500 infected daily. The raven does like a wave with pujades and drops. Critical, dangerous, and self-adjectived. We might think it's good news, the stabilization, but we know that if it's not low and the stabilization is broken down, the virus naturally tends to go higher and higher, and sometimes without control. These two days later we are concerned about the increase in cases, the risk of reboot and the reproductive index. We're not doing well. Concerns for Ebre, Manlleu, Vic, Salt, always for Barcelona and its metropolitan area. Fem this debate, important, downtime. In fact, we have since the 29th generation of this year, when President Torra gave up the term of office. But it is not the responsibility of the proposing group, but rather of how they fly and mark the groups that give support to the government to parliamentary calendars, since they have had time to talk about the monarchy or to make non-institutional farewells, but they have cancelled important commissions or delayed plenary; plenary and committees that address what citizens and citizens are concerned about. We don't say that, the CEO said: 57 percent of Catalans prioritize public service management and only 40 percent of the process. Certainly, only Junts voters for Catalonia do not share it; the rest of the parties, yes. And following the CEO, one time I think you should make them think: only a 2,3_per_cent think the government is doing it well; those who think you don't know how to do it are around 60_per_cent. Managing in the three most important areas of the government in the pandemic, such as Salut, Social Affairs and Education, will be difficult, even if they try to do so, because they will have to explain inconsistencies, abandonments and years and come no longer; how they will be difficult to explain that you have given support and formed part of governments that during a decade have left the basic public services to the bone; a decade, 2009-2019, that, despite years of economic recovery, you, and you also, Mr. Aragonès, have not only not recovered the level of reversal in social policies, but have related 3,267.7 million euros in salvation, which means a reduction in their spending of 27_percent. Comparisons are always hateful. He said so, I think the president's interested, or the substitute's interested. But they can't... but I haven't been able to obviate the social inversion of governments like the Valencian Community and the Balearics, which I won't tell you here, but it does manifest a certain way that there are other ways to manage. How many times have we not asked ourselves whether without this lost decade we have been able to tackle the pandemic with better conditions, with more professionals, with more resources, not putting the system to the limit? Possibly this will be the last opportunity to make a specific ple on health, on the health system. So did Congressman Soler. And, therefore, we have a certain balance of these months, this spring and summer and late stolen for Covid-19, but it also has to be the opportunity, again, to present motions for resolutions with initiatives and concrete proposals. And I'm going back to the data analysis to talk about his management. By June we had come up with an R and a number of cases too low to control the pandemic if we did things right, but it didn't go well. There were forty-five days without public health secretaries. Counselor, I hope someday you explain to us why, and if you don't recognize it was a mistake. It precipitated the descalation – there was too much haste to prove that they only did better – and in less than three weeks what they showed, as Dr. Benito Admiral said, was that they were worse than before. They blew up our phases because they were confided. It cannot be said that in his instructions he has primacy neither the clarity, nor the order, nor the good management. As an example, the residents of large people have rejected more than sixty different performance protocols. In a few hours you passed us to the dam, and with a great speech the councilwoman and President Torra told us that it was time for individual responsibility: distance, hands, mask. We share it, but we also share what we have already told you, you have forgotten your responsibilities as the government: prevent, detect, test, follow, wing and pose in quarantine. They relaxed the prevention measures, failed the diagnosis of our cases and the tracking of contacts. The Segrià and its bud made it clear that they had not foreseen tracking, nor how to address what vulnerable people could do with quarantine. They had no human or technological resources, and all they had to do was award a contract for 18_millions to Ferroser; the same company – Ferrovial – that 31 August has fired all its eventuals that were already in format answering the phone, 061, with its approval; it is generating a col·lapse of the phone of emergencies, it refuses to re-enter this staff, and, according to the company's sources, it is losing a thousand day tricks. Will you advise, I repeat, one day will you explain to us in your parliamentary office why these awards and your permissiveness? I think we deserve it. As I said, speaking of data, the R's bid again, the number of cases has increased, and so we are since July. It's worth remembering what it took to lower the name of the infection to Segria to give us an idea of what gave them to the iniciator: without control and effectively downloaded, the natural tendency of the virus is to push. Mr. Iceta made a joke, and he said, "It's viral, and therefore extensive. The Covid-19 has put into evidence the best and worst of this health system... that you have participated in leaving it to the bone while singing the excellencies. And today they've done it again, they've talked about a health system of excellence when they know the deficiency in which they put it. The best, his professionals, his involvement, his ability to self-organize. They are all men and women who conform the whole system, and all those who are subcontractors and who have not managed to pay the pay because they are not part, according to you, of the system; as always, also the most vulnerable. To those we have applauded every day for many days, but the government has been unable to move from applause to recognition and has set them the limit of its resistance. We have great professionals, also the worst paid, the worst in Europe. And this time we're in front of three calls for a job. Well, one of them's already started. The future of the system, the internal resident doctors, who are in formation and, in change, occupy structural places, make exhausting days and who in the negotiation process say that they have to recover the hours of post-guard rest. After six years of career more than I was wearing MIR, they had a base sum of 947 euros per month. They also say, the negotiators – who must have the visa of the council – that if they do not want to be so or not to have studied medicine or to go to another autonomous community if they pay better, that they already know what it is when Catalonia was awarded in the selection process of resident internal medicine. And I don't find anything, because they explained it in the committee in the appearance they did and they explained it with tweets and press appearances. So we're dealing with our future system, our future interns and residents. Out of the professionals of the primary school, of the ICS. The first force of xoc front to a pandemic, the ones that avoid hospital col·lapse. And with all this the ICS takes a note not taking responsibility, saying they don't understand the vagueness and calling for infra-financing. Vaga announced by the workers and workers of the sanitary transport companies, the major contract awarded for Mr. Boi Ruiz. Certainly, he also awarded it in time of discount, and it has been a disaster since the beginning, we have not spoken many times. In the presentation of the prepandemic assumption, Vice President Aragonès said something so that they were setting up a new scene on health transportation. At this time, we haven't seen it. The only thing we have seen is that during the pandemic the companies tried to make an ERT when they were essential enterprises within the sanitary framework. This is the health transport in the hands of which we are. I want to talk about the infirmary, too. With some coverage taxes across the OECD banners – said Mr Soler before – that they are on the edge and that they have not called a vacancy, but the other day the majority union announced strong actions against the paper..., especially against the paper and against the one that was living infirmary at the time. We could make a report of the response, of erratic management, of lack of transparency respect to parliamentary groups. The counselor always says she explains it and that now, it's true, she's called some meetings. From the first day, from the first day this group asked you to convert the Health Commission into the Covid Follow-up Commission. He refused to do it. He's never done it before. Returning vacation has started some meetings every fifteen days; returning vacation, September 2020. We are complaining that the Health Commission is following the Covid follow-up committee since March; since the first appearance was made. Therefore, as I said, lack of transparency, complacency, lack of cooperation among other administrations, contradictory messages of the many different instructions and protocols that we have said before: forty-five days without public health secretaries, lack of trackers, their inability to follow close contacts. You yourselves recognized that during the period, we would say, the hardest of the pandemic, while pressing it with the issue of care, had not made the preventive task of setting aside what would be the subsequent follow-up, when you stopped being community-based and then, through trackers, went to cut contacts. We could also talk about a 061 col·lapsate or an SEM that we don't recognize as an essential service. But I'd like to finish, take advantage of this time that I have left, to talk about the two essential services – I think we've all talked about it – and that it might strengthen in the approach of an epidemic or, in any case, even for our normal life: the public health services and the primary care services. Prevention and containment. Public Greeting. With an agency recovered in 2009, certainly, with a law of the year 2009, a law that had been made by the government of the tripartite and that practically we recovered it honestly, that has not developed nor its statutes, because they are still in exposition, not even the most important: the territorial organization, which must allow to weave a territorial network of epidemiological vigilance, and that has not had structure or director the major part of the pandemic, from the resignation of Mr. Joan Guix until the appointment of Dr. Argimon. And yet today there are changes, because the deputy director who is more dependent on..., who was a follow-up of infections, who is much more dependent on Dr. Guix, has left the Public Health Agency. It may strengthen public health services to respond to emergencies and health warnings from epidemiological surveillance. A solid public greeting that is not directed to malalty, but to prevention and the promotion of salvation. Primary attention. The first thing we'd have to ask ourselves is why the primary care professionals have called for a break. How they got here. Let's talk, when there was the other spot, that they're a sector that's very reluctant to make vague, that's very aware of their paper and what they're doing. So, they've arrived at the summons. And we can see it from the perspective of citizens and citizens. Citizens can't contact their headmaster, it's impossible. The consultations and closed CAPs were not reopened, which occurred during the pandemic. They cannot answer the phone, the centers are stuck with the diagnosis of Covid-19 and with the follow-up of the schools and residences. At the gates of the CAPs, the most common are the thighs. The cracking is done on the street, a CTAI comes out, a nurse comes out and the cracking is done on the street. It's daily to see the socks at the doors of the CAPs. There is no follow-up of chronic diseases. Telemedicine cannot replace the need for face-to-face care. One thing is to provide us with complementary elements, the other is that they are substitutes. There's no prevention. What's going on? As people can't go to their CAP visit because they don't answer their phone or give them visiting hours, there is no prevention or follow-up. And, therefore, when the diseases arrive at the hospital, at this moment, they arrive in more advanced states. Before Dr. Soler talked about it – and the other day I also told the committee – what about the preventative cracks, the breast cancers, the colon cancers? We need to be able to get this back. And that, basically, is prevention, which will prevent us from collapsing after hospital centers. And, look, as far as hospital centers are concerned, I'm going to give a parentheses and I'm going to make a statement to the waiting lists too, because I don't want to or imagine how they're doing right now. It is necessary to address care normality with a clear programme. Because I'd like to know – maybe we'll know with the increase in mortality – how many deaths must have been expected to be held, pending a list of waits. And I go back to primary school, and in this case I also go back to the professionals, because the professionals are scheduled a phone visit every five minutes, and in five minutes this professional has to have time to call, listen, diagnose and treat. If they can't attend to their people, if they have to visit every five minutes, if they don't have the resources they need, it's logical that in the end, then they end up calling for a break. Returning to the lack of attention is the great people, the ones who need more follow-up and the most vulnerable. The pandemic – and we have seen this – has made us lose years of life expectancy; that the lack of prevention and inequalities do not hide it any more, because this step will be there. As we said, primary care is a wall containing the growth of Covid-19, avoiding hospital collapse, and making homes and schools. But they also want to follow up on their patients not Covid, they want to do prevention and attention. And what the government does, in the most important tradition of Councillor Comín – let me just say 'hodir so' – is to present a new plan, and we still don't know how the others who are still in force have ended up with primary care. The plan says "Strengthening and transformation of the primary, and, as Focap says – I already use the words of the others, nor my own –: "With this title and objectives I would like to expect proposals that reinforce the values of the primary and that brand in strategic lines, proposed with sufficient human, technological and economic resources. That's what it's all about. Miri, with four numbers: the staff reinforcements they were told, are not seen, because it turns out that the reinforcements announced represent for each primary care team 0.8 metges, 0.58 nurse and 0.3 psychologist, a reinforcement... well, a reinforcement. And they're still asking how they called us a spot. For what it does to the announced economic contributions, it will take three years to get to the expense of the year 2010 in primary – of which they have announced as extraordinary to do the post-Covid treatment. Therefore, the only thing we have left is the WHO recommendation, that the primary hold 25_per_cent of the real assumption of Salut. In the three full specifications that have been made up until today, the Socialist Group has put forward proposals for a resolution, many of which have been approved. We will also do so in this House, and we will address the pandemic as a matter of urgency, with proposals for returning to normal care. We also did not present an economic character, because we want to know what was paid for at the primary, the audits of the expenditure, etc., but above all because I would like to clarify why they have used 1,600_million Covid funds to pay the invoices deserved for the year 2019. There are things that need to be clarified, because it will also give us an image of what is true, what it cost us, what is Covid's expense and what are the resources we need to put in. And we will also put forward proposals on the future of the system. Here we have expressed and raised many times the need for a health pact that brings together experience and sought broad consensus, starting from professional initiatives, professional and scientific societies, with the participation of parliamentary groups and citizens, a pact with consensus. And here, Councilwoman Budó, I'll bring you the contract, because it wasn't you who commissioned an expert committee. There was a group of professionals, health institutions and scientific societies who, concerned, headed to the parliamentary groups, headed with a first document that they had made, with a basis for transformation, a basis for a health pact, to the Vergés Councillor – who saw that they had been poorly cared for the first time – and then went to President Torra. President Torra brought them in, and from here he made a charge. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, Councilwoman Budo. If you feel the tape, you have attributed yourself, or you have attributed yourself – your government and President Torra – say, the origin. The origin is not this; the origin is in them and the professionals – which we say, the best of the system – who believe that the pandemic could give us lessons to truly transform the system. But what did the government do? The government did not start from the basis of a consensus, it did not start from the basis of taking up and drawing up a pact with the participation of all, not only of these professionals, of many other professionals – which could ideally have different positions – from the participation of parliamentary groups or of citizens; it created what is said in the « Agenda for the transformation made in and from the government. I'm meeting with all of mine, with all of my government departments, and I'm drawing up the agenda for transformation. That wasn't the point. The object of a covenant of salvation was consensus, which is why the covenant was given, and that is why he went to seek. But good, nothing. They have therefore presented us with an interpretation of the thirty proposals of the Committee of Experts, moving from the rest of the groups. And when we said: "Home, listen, the parliamentary groups have made proposals, so that there were no recollections, so, now that we can bring them. I believe that what can be done by parliamentary groups is to reverse all the motions for resolutions adopted in all these plenary sessions, from March to now, all that we have approved in terms of salvation to the agenda and which I take into account. Because this is a necessary compliment and is part of the pact and consensus, because it is the elaboration and participation of parliamentary groups also in the management not only of the pandemic but also in the future of the health system. But, well, so far I have to tell him we've had a little success. That's why I'm telling him that this is his style, the denial of transparency and the dialog, the denial of consent to salvation and the welfare of citizens. But you will be sold again our proposal for a pact for salvation, for a system of salvation eminently public, universal, equitable and of quality; a system with social and health vision, because we have now seen much more of the need; that you take care of your professionals, and that you make a bet are not out for digitization. But above all, I would like a health pact that tells the city three things, and I will say it in denial: it will not be necessary for you to go to private, we will have you; we will not forget about you if you are on a waiting list, and we will not ask you the age, you have right to salvation, because our great people also deserve it. The answer to all this has much to see, and will have much to see, with the existence of a good government, with a change – I do not love them –, with the change that Catalonia needs, from time to time, perspective and political leadership. It will be seen with a good government that marks and secures priorities, that is effective and effective in managing skills and resources, that bases its relationship on cooperation and collaboration between governments and the rest of administrations. Since the Socialist Group and Forward Units, we've already done it and we've said it, but we want to work for reconstruction and also for the change of government. We want to put economic recovery and job retention first. Without greeting there is no economy and without economy there is no salvation. 80 percent of the determinants of salvation come from the outside, and many of them, linked to inequalities. For this reason, the second point of the proposal is social reconstruction and the strengthening of public health and education, you serve public basics of well-being, guarantee of equity and fight against inequalities. We must reverse the detail and build a solid system and, now, of excellence, recover the one we have also lost. Greetings from all of us are worth it and vulnerability affects all of us. We've talked a lot about the vulnerable, about vulnerability, but vulnerability we've all demonstrated in this pandemic, because if anything has shown us the Covid is universal and doesn't even know about borders... but not about competitive brands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Jessica Albiach. And they asked me to split the turn, I think, with Congresswoman Marta Ribas. [[Pause.]] Okay. So, when you give her the word, she'll finish her return.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.14.0	Thank you, Vice President. And good afternoon to all of you and all of you. As the Vice-President was commenting now, we will divide the time between the greetings of my parliamentary group, Marta Ribas, and I myself and structure the intervention, obviously, into two parts: I will talk a little about what has brought us here, and a few lines on where we want to go, and Marta, who knows in depth the subject and who has the very well-developed proposals, will be the most developed this part. The first thing I want to do, of course, is to remember all the people who have followed the victims, who have lost their lives to the Covid, and of course also to send a strong hug to their families; to wish that who is now going through the disease recovers very quickly. And also to thank the work, the vocation, the dedication to all the health personnel, from the first to the last, including also the clean staff and all those people who have cared for us, who follow us care for us, despite the fact that many times the conditions, therefore, are not the best. All these people, who are no longer there, who are fighting the disease and also those who save our lives, I believe that they are the ones we should have in mind when we make decisions that mark before and after and when we want to push certain public policies forward. They are the ones that we have to go to the center when we have to make decisions, because the struggle for life, the public health and this battle that we are fighting against the virus is far superior, we have to prioritize all the interests, all the partisan battles that we often see here. But unfortunately we don't just see it here, we see it too these days and these weeks in Madrid by Mrs. Ayuso and we see it also in the Government of the Generality. So I would add to other speakers who have made Members and Members who have preceded me not to turn this Ple into a more space of division and confrontation, but to take advantage of it to be a space of debate, reflection and seeing as one of all strengthening this health system, so that we need to take care of it and that if anyone had any doubt after this pandemic has become quite clear. Look, we've always been very proud of our public health system. We could be sure that if we got sick, we'd have someone to take care of. We had a system that protected us from misfortune, regardless of whether we were born, regardless of the postal code of our parents' house or our seas. And we also had a double pride, and this pride was that this public health system, this basic public service, had won our opinions and our lives. That's right. And we knew that before a disgrace, before an injustice, there was a network of solidarity, there was a mutual support, there was a responsibility and a collective effort that was the one that protected us. And that said a lot of us as a society; before injustices or disgraces was not the field that could, but a social network of solidarity. But – but – when this crisis came, this pandemic, so our health system was weakened; our health workers, health professionals were in precarious condition, and all public administrations are looking at reality, hard reality, with all its complexity, with impotence. And that's why, before this stage of complexity, of hardness, of weakness, of this tension and stress that the system supports, I think we can't say that this reality is not the result of chance, it's not a meteorological problem; we're talking about this stage of complexity and of the system's extremes having political leaders, it has very concrete public policies, it's the ones that have brought us to this condition, and it also has an ideology such as market speechism. And I think it's important that we have it present, that we internalize it and that we are very aware of it, precisely in order not to repeat the same mistakes that have led us to the situation that we have so far, of this market phonationalism that we thought was already good enough that there would be a part of the system that was externalized, that was privatized, and that it was already good enough that a few people would fill their pockets at the expense of negotiating with our life and with our salvation. Mirin, recently an Amnesty International report told us that from 2009 to 2018, health spending in Spain had fallen by 11_percent. And that's not just about the retail policies that Zapatero and Rajoy's governments did, but here in Catalonia we were also the pointers in those retails. In fact, in Catalonia in 2018 the reversal in sanitation was a 12-percent lower than it was in 2009, and the same year, if we look at primary attention, that we always say it has to be the color of the system and not just the access door, so it is reversed a 24-percent less in primary attention, less, a 24-percent less in two years; this is what has been lost. What's that supposed to mean? So three out of every five euros that have been re-detailed has been paid to the primary attention. And so, we have a system and we have a system that is absolutely weakened. To put it this way, it's as if you see a storm of cold, snow, wind and the system is there at the mig, unprotected, undressed, because someone went and took the stuff, kept it and the stove. That's how the public health system found this pandemic. And, as I say, this is not the result of chance, this is the result of very concrete public policies, which have the name of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, and which, after 2015, when the Department of Health stopped at the hands of the Republican Left, therefore, these retail policies have not been understood and have not reverted. And now, seven months after the WHO declared the world pandemic, after thousands of deaths, after applause to the balconies, after deciding among all the people, because I am convinced that all the citizens, who vote, are aware that we need to strengthen our public health system, so now we add that there are still political leaders who have not understood it. Or go on, it can't be that the resident doctors, who are on the front line, who are leaving their hair, who work more hours than a clock, who can't even collect a thousand euros a month of basic wages, who can't rest a day and a half, are on the loose and don't make a case. It's just that it can't be. I mean... And it can't be that from the doctors' union it's a little vague the week you're going to see, because the situation in the primary is desperate, and it's not going to be negotiated with them. It's just that you're incomprehensible. Is it that they do not see that every time there are more professionals who decide to leave Catalonia or that they do not come directly to Catalonia because in other territories of the State, in other European countries, they extract better? They don't see it. And that, moreover, when we talk about defending the working conditions of health professionals we are talking about ultimately defending the salvation of the system of salvation, more well said. And besides, it's also about defending our right to salvation, again. And we're still wondering: how can we pay Catalonia the most expensive private member of the UCI-derived patient state? Or how it may be that instead of reinforcing primary care you contract to Ferrovial for 18_million euros to follow up on the Covid case tracking. How can it be? When, in addition, the people of the primary school are telling us that Ferroser is not doing his job. They've collected 18_million euros and they don't seem to be doing their job. We don't think that's a waste. And that is why, before all those who want this "intelligent confrontation," we defend and work for intelligent cooperation in Catalonia and also between Catalonia and the State, the central government. And for that, what do we need? So Marta Ribas will develop it in depth, but we are talking about a national pact for public salvation. What, obviously, do we have to collect many of the expert committee's proposals? Also. But it is also the parliamentary groups that have to say their own, as Mrs Escarp said before. Therefore, our five-point party, which is obviously a debate, is a reflection, because everyone says theirs: the first is to increase the presumption in health and bring us closer to the 7_percent of catal GDP; the second is to shield the health of retailers by law; the third is to reinforce primary care as in the color of the system; to dignify the profession of all those who take care of us, and, lastly, also to work on prevention. As you see, we're talking about having more resources and we're talking about transforming the model. And if we ask ourselves where to get the money, that this question is also only common, so I'll be clear, too be clear. We have a new rescue plan for the autonomous communities that speaks of a Covid fund of €13,400_million, to strengthen public services. We are also talking about the central government's flexibility of the deficit target in a 2.2_per_cent. Recall that Vice President Aragones spoke of a flexibility of the deficit target of 1_per_cent. Well, we have a 2,2_per_cent. That means more than double. And, besides, some general assumptions of the State are being negotiated that are expansive and that are progressive. This is where we get more money, too. And I'm sure it could be much more, but I think that with this data on the table, no one can question that there are resources to strengthen, strengthen and shield this public safety system. I'm done. After so many years and after a stage of 'not everything', we consider it necessary to open a stage of 'yes'; a stage of 'yes to the dialogue, of 'yes to negotiation, of 'yes to cooperation, regardless of all our differences, of our differences. But we have to put some fears ahead of all this. And clearly we believe that the public system of salvation must go ahead of all our differences and our differences. We need dialogue between the political forces, we need to listen to the professionals of salvation, and, obviously, to cooperate between the various administrations, in order to achieve, as I say, strengthening the public system of salvation. I insist: before the 'intelligent confrontation', we defend this intelligent cooperation; before a divided Catalonia, those who only want to agree and negotiate between the independence forces, we want a national pact for public salvation where all Catalans feel represented, and before a split plebiscite that does not bring us place, obviously we want a Catalonia that is more strengthened before a social, economic, health and territorial crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It's got the word now, Congresswoman Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.16.0	Thank you. So as the chairman of my parliamentary group, Jessica Albiach, explained, we want to make proposals, because we believe that it is for the citizenry, that it is not just for the user of the system but for the workers and workers of the system, and that it is the best way to be useful to the country at a time like the present. And the best way to make proposals is to do good analysis. Before the coronavirus we already had a system in crisis, with inefficiencies, frustrating, often, for the professional and also in many aspects for the citizenry. The pandemic, the only one he's ever done has been putting the magnifying glass on what was already failing. And it has also increased some of these problems. But it's also an opportunity; it's an opportunity because we see them collectively, and because we put focus and resources on these transformation axes. And it is that the will to strengthen and transform the system has strengthened in the city. That's obvious. We came out every day at eight o'clock on the evening, and we said that we want strong, powerful public servants with the changes that we need. And, therefore, one of the sure consensus we have had in this pandemic or post-pandemic is that we need to invest more resources to improve this system. Therefore, more resources, more resources, but not for anything. More resources for – whether with emergency measures or with medium-term measures – going in line with a transformation and no more inefficient spending. To our parent, now more than ever, it's time to talk, therefore, about modeling. To solve small things, to solve many of the emergencies that we have now in the system. But it's also now that we need to be talking about the model, because all the money that now, with the extraordinary Covid funds that come from the State, with the funds that come from Europe and with the efforts that can be made from Catalonia itself, must go in line with this transformation project. If not, it will, in part, be spent badly. We therefore want to plant ourselves in this House as well, which is this model of transformation, of reinforcement and of change. And in our opinion, the first thing we have to do is ask ourselves the question of why we want the health system, which is the main objective of our health system. Do we want you to follow a system centered on disease, technology, drugs, hospitals? Or do we want the priority to be the salvation of people? So the community, the prevention, the promotion of salvation, the cure, the integral salvation and all its conditionings? Because if we want this second, we have to totally get the model. The focus must be public salvation. The focus must be on primary and community care, mental health and the care of people in vulnerable situations. The last two years have been spent on the minute, detailed resources of our health system to the other, priority. And where else has it been, precisely, in public health, primary care, health care for addiction and mental health, that they were already the weakest before the retail. It has been a very thoughtful way, improvised people, to weaken the public health system, to undermine the confidence of the citizenry in the public system and to give more space to those who want to negotiate also with a right as basic as that of salvation. If now what we do next is strengthen the primary, the community, as well as everything else, we don't change anything, counsel, and we do it every time more unsustainable. Do they really want to transform, as you said in your speech? Do you want to change priorities? If you want, you have to bet hard, hard, to strengthen the base and the foundations of the system, which is a system based..., it has to be based on cure and prevention. And what we find ourselves in this crisis is that what they've done has been magnified even more by some of the problems that the system already has. At the heart of the pandemic, obviously, there was a need to strengthen hospitals, so they didn't get saturated. It's done. Millions were taken, extraordinary measures, external spaces, staff reinforcements of all the rest of the care levels. Now we're through with primary school. What did they call it, Counselor, and the rest of the government? How many millions, how many external spaces, how much staff-reinforcing – new staff or other levels of care? It is absolutely disproportionate the effort that has been made so that the hospital is not saturated at first, which must be carried out, with the effort or effort that is now being made with primary care. I have explained with another clear example: now, what about us, in a country where we are left with hospital beds, are five of us attached to Catalan hospitals, which cost 85_million euros? Is the emergency €85_million more for the Mayor's Board of Reinforcement and Transformation? The Covid crisis, the evolution that's going on, are you telling us that what we need is all of us hospitals? The thousand contracts, 1,400 conjunctural contracts that have been made in pandemic time for the primary school are obviously a help for the primary school, but for the Covid attention. For that matter, it affects all the structural shortcomings that were already present in the primary care teams. Now they have announced with this specific plan for the first 300 metges and metgesesses and 220 infirmaries and nurses. It's a help, but we put things in his measure. In Catalonia there are 374 primary care teams; therefore, they do not arrive to a doctor and still less one nurse per primary care team as reinforcement. This, according to the professionals in the sector, is only – only – the assumption of health care for residents, which we also want you to do in primary school. Therefore, we still do not put any reinforcement to what structurally required reinforcement to primary care. It was coming from before, wasn't it? We do. Actually, it's been a year since they've had a break, the meths of primary school. That's why, among other things, the next week they're having a break again. The saturation that is currently patenting the primary is obviously given because they are taking up 80_percent of Covid-19's cases. But that's what's preventing them from doing the primary job, the ordinary primary job, which nobody takes. First is taking control and follow-up of many cases and contacts that have not been done well by Railway. You're taking primary school. First she's taking on the school control job, which she had to do Public Health, but since she doesn't have enough personal, she's doing it first. First you are doing the bureaucratic task of working download for close contacts. I should do the ICAM, but the ICAM doesn't do it, it's primary. First, because you do, you take care of the residences. Systematic cracks of workers, which should be done from Health Laboral, but they don't do it, they do it first. And who does primary work when primary is saturated? We want you to do primary school. Professionals are telling us: "Now the very first thing is not the first thing. We're done, no resources at all. We feel very lonely, frightened by those we're no longer caring for, our patients, patients who have a referral team. And they don't know how long we can go on like this. This lack of primary work, which has to be done in primary school, means that we are suffering from more advanced illnesses, which have not been detected since the beginning and at the hospital. So, more expense, more inefficiency... we can't afford that the primary doesn't make it primary. We want the primary care to do its job, well done, which takes everything that is extra if we consider that it is the primary care the best place to do it, but all with the resources added, and there has not been enough reinforcements, counsel; they have not existed so far, and therefore it is an urgency that we ask for an answer and solution to all this circumstance. It's not simple, the one we plant, we know. It is easier and more effective – and more in advance of elections – to build hospitals. But it's no more efficient, especially to solve that crisis that we said the system was already tainted. This crisis caused by the coronavirus we believe must also be an opportunity to solve other problems that the system already has. For example, the working conditions – my company Jessica Albiach has already made reference, and I have already made reference also to the working conditions of the professionals of the primary care. But it's that these last few days also make us a cry to alert the MIRs, the practices in which they suffer maximum precariousness and take on excessive responsibilities. He still doesn't agree. We need a sincere negotiation to find solutions to a matter that is of substance and before the pandemic. That the pandemic beats, but that it can resolve with will and courage. These, the practical meths are the planter of the professionals for us for the system, and if we are said to be lacking professionals for the whole system and these, which must be the planter in order to strengthen the whole system we are expelling them, we hardly do. Because the bad conditions that are being offered to the MIR in Catalonia are not just that we don't get talent from other autonomous communities, as before it is ugly, but we don't retain our own. The MIRs prefer to go to other places to practice, when it's faded, treats and shapes better. And that's a very hard problem for the system, Counselor. We are the autonomous community with the healthiest in college education, but then, at the time of finding it to work on the system, they are not there, and they know that this discussion has been held a thousand times in the negotiation of assumptions, acting president and adviser. We were claiming much more professional for the primary for this year, and they said they couldn't be, because they're not there. We have solutions to the structural problems that cause us not to find them, among others, that doctors in practice expel them from our community, expel them after private, because the conditions not only of practices, but after their possible professional career, are not attractive in the system in Catalonia, and still less in the primary in Catalonia. There is no good health system without good professionals and recognizable. This is a major fault for the Covid and an urgency to continue to resolve. Another inefficiency already exists before the Covid, and evidenced again now, is the management model. In our opinion, we have a model with many inefficiencies, and many of them caused by the little control of public money that is generated with the model that we have in Catalonia of health system. A model that ended up having a good share of power providers and not public administration. The resources are public, they come from the public administration, they are from the citizenry, but the government of the public system of Catalonia of Salut is to distribute contracts in accounts to govern the system. And that's a reflection we've done a thousand times in this Parliament: CatSalut is not the government of the system, it's not the government of the system, it's just a contract dealer. Therefore, we do not agree that we have an excellent health system and that in order to strengthen it we can only continue to develop the same. We need to transform the model. It can simplify this complex network of providers which has made it difficult to control, transparency, territorial equity and equal working conditions in this health system. It may reinforce the role of the government of this system to the detriment of suppliers. It is necessary to make a system designed for the citizenry and to focus on the best of health, and not to propose girls and think for the managers and for the managers. Go, that in this – I told you the other day, counsel, too – it is not worth a reconstruction, even though it is improved; it is only worth a real transformation. It is not worth moving from a socio-vergent health system to a socio-ERCvergent health system that is still more than the same, the only one that now incorporates the Republican Left into those who control this system. We want a different system. It's not worth a reconstruction, it's worth a transformation. We want a CatHello that effectively governs, a real government of the entire public financing system. We want guarantees of fairness throughout the system – territorial equity and working conditions – and we obviously want real participation of professionals and citizens and transparency and independent control tools. And I end up with a last repte, a repte pending resolution even years and years ago. And in this case clearly the health crisis has made it clear that this was a very difficult breach, and it is a great opportunity and need to put it in the needle. And it's social-health coordination. It turned out with the crisis at the residences. It has been shown how Salut had abandoned attention apart from the citizenry: the population, especially vulnerable in questions of salvation, who saw residences had been abandoned for the public health system. Now they can't make it back. It may continue to maintain people's health care in the hands of the public health system and may continue to move forward. We need to create a structure that allows us to improve this efficiency of coordination between the two great systems – health and social – not just for the residences, but for all the social determinants that affect our health and that are more controlled, work from the social system, but that also affect the future health care. And, therefore, we need close coordination between the two systems. And keep moving. I'm done. The pandemic, therefore, in our opinion, has shown and increased the weaknesses that the system already has, and has also joined us in so far as it has been for a long time – surely, too long – that the professionals and experts of the system have already told us: "They are calling us more resources, but not for anything; they are calling us to transform the system into a system where primary and community are central, with hospitals that lose gross and gain muscles, centered on what they truly have to resolve, hospitally; with more efficiency and more coordinated work with the rest of the care levels; with real social and health coordination; with planning, management and provision of public, priority; with better working conditions comparable to the rest of the care system and with the rest of the health care system, but with a real system of health care, with planning, management and provision of public, primarily; with more efficiency and with more work conditions comparable to the rest of the care system and with the health system, but with a system of health and health in the whole. We need to cooperate to do this. To cooperate with other administrations, such as Jessica Albiach; to cooperate with the other political forces represented in this Parliament; to cooperate with professionals who want to participate in designing a better health system, and to cooperate with citizens, who also want to participate in strengthening their public health system. Therefore, we need to tackle the problem with fertilizer; not problems, one at a time. Transform the whole system so that we can really respond to this crisis Covid and it is an opportunity to have already focused on the transformation that we need for the rest of the years of life and generations that will come forward with a public system of truth, strength, transformed, that gives response to the reptes of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, the Deputy Vidal Aragonese has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.18.0	I wanted to start with a previous question...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.19.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.20.0	...who has a relationship with a public health activist from Baix Llobregat, Tamara Carrasco, Viladecans, who today has ceased to be an assailant as a terrorist, as at least from a legal point of view, and it has been seen that there was no crime. Today for Tamara so good I begin a new life in relation to what has always been, an activist for national rights, but also for social rights. It was a shame to start this way today, our intervention. [[Greetings.]] We also need to start, if we are talking about the monogram ple of sanitation, and after what has happened and is happening in relation to the crisis of the Covid-19, to put in value the public health system... And you'll forgive me, but I think we could do a little better without a mask. [[The watchman's taken off the mask.]] Put it in value because it is the only health system that guarantees or can guarantee for equal care without going to look at the butxaca and without going to look at the credit card, and only this can be done by the public health system. We cannot say the same as in the private health system, which, in the crisis of the Covid and in today's day, therefore, in some assumptions deny purely economic criteria, if you can pay well and if you can't pay you don't have health care, and in others until and when you manage public services, as we have seen in the residents of large people, we are still waiting for them to give an answer and they disappeared. And we say so: disappear. Recognition also for all workers and workers. What they did during the Covid-19 crisis went far beyond work or work, far beyond professional delivery. It is another thing that the workers and workers of the public system have done. Unfortunately – and we say so with utmost respect – we think that since the Department of Health has not been on the rise. I, mirin, we also want to make it clear. It is not a question of whether he will advise, but not. It's not about a person, nor are we just wondering whether it's work or not; we haven't questioned that. It is a matter of not wanting to modify what is a certain model of public health system management, and from the government group that manages the department has not been questioned in case of a system that cohabits public management, private management and the public health system. How could we define all this? So for us it's confusion and opacity. Confusion why? Look, private companies that run public, public services that are run in private and public areas where private companies come to do business. All this is what creates confusion of interests, rotating doors facilitating corruption. And when the doors are turned, we have names and surnames. We said names and surnames, we could say ancient public health system holders that today are responsible for Mutuam. We were going to say their names and surnames and, therefore, I can't repeat it. And when we say corruption, then, look, we may be forced to say alleged corruption, reserving or preserving the right to the presumption of innocence, but we should go to Innova, where we are, where our companies from the CUP of the denunciation reus, and others place us as processed or processed. And when we talk about opacitate, counselor... Miri, we ask you a very simple question: can you answer us – tomorrow, for example, or the divenders – how much does a visit cost – how much for the public system – to the public first-visit pediatric network through a private management hospital? How much does it cost? Tell us what the cost is, let us know. And then he also answers us how much the same visit is now – first visit, to pediatrics, to the same hospital – in a telematic or telephone way. If we can find out about this tomorrow, then maybe the system isn't so opaque. If we can't know and explain to us that everything is very complex, that they are different variables, so we will continue to think that it is an absolutely opaque system. And when we talked about the system, we also asked him another question, counselor. This is where we talked about socio-vergency. Can you tell us how different is the management that Esquerra has made as to the model of what has historically been the ‘health socio-vergency'? Explain here is the difference in the management model, if they have one or if they don't have one. And, look, we are very aware, that we are the only parliamentary group, in our subgroup case, that we are betting for a health system that is 100_per_cent public management, also provided, of course, ownership. But we think that, at least, what they tell us about the CEO's data is that there are only 22_percent Catalans and Catalans who think that private management is better than the public. That's not what the CUP says, Catalans and Catalans say. Therefore, there is a 78_per_cent that thinks of a contrary feeling. If we're talking about modeling too, we have to tell you that, even with your model, there are other ways to manage. The other forms of management undoubtedly pass, first, by more finance, and more finance to devote it to primary, for one band, to working conditions, for another band, and to reduce waiting lists. And, look, if we're talking – now that this legislature is moving forward – about waiting lists, they'll have to explain some things to us, two things in a nutshell. October 2018, the group of the commons explained that there was a compromise given to the government for a decree of waiting lists, and that it would reduce waiting lists in surgical interventions, in visits to specialists and in diagnostic tests. Two years later, has anyone seen the decree? Not us. But the same modus operandi is repeated in December 2019, when the group of the commons announces to us that there is a new agreement for a decree that will, moreover, allow them to approve assumptions, and that will mean the reduction of waiting lists. Then, on the 1st of February, we found that it was not well to reduce the waiting lists, because the councillor who spoke to us was of a decree of accessibility that he assumed that for the head we could have had the visit in seventy-two hours, that it was to break the consensus of this Parliament, that had always defended the forty-eight hours for the health care assistance to head. And that at the same time it can be translated as a political success to what is a social defeat, which we have to expect even seventy-two for head care, it seemed to us that it was not a waste; beyond that to some parts of the country that meant moving forward, and we also want to recognize it, on the assumption. And if this was a complicated exercise, what they did about the waiting lists and the non-decrees, always announced, but never done, they also made magic in explaining the assumptions of Sanitat 2020, the most social of history. The most social in history meant that they were inferior to 2010, with 200,000 more people in the system, Catalans and Catalans, and with a larger population. The most social of the history that meant was that the Catalan Institute of Health, in 2010, had 2,915 million premises and in 2020 2,865 fewer, with 200,000 more people, and that to the primary is dedicated a 16_per_cent, or – as you say – a 21,7, but, in any case, insufficient. The other element: working conditions. Miri, counselor, in two years it is difficult to have had four waves, one from general to sector, one from doctors, one from MIR, and another from health transport. It's hard, but it's focused on this legislature. Health transport. Placement in the auctions – since they do not feel or share with the CUP that we have to recover public management to the auctions –, appropriate collection of the sector, or for the same functions, convenient collection of the SEM. That's it, and we're avoiding a problem for the workers. We want the recovery of services, that's right. And now, of course, it would seem to us, if we are not mistaken, that on the 9th of October a new vacancy, which we will not assign to you, of course. If the employer doesn't pay a supplement, in this case, as in the least, we still want to be cautious about assigning it to you, but the solution can go through your department too. Metges. We gave it to him at his time: "In view, reaching an agreement does not mean solving a problem. We have to tell him he was like this, the problem has not been solved. An agreement that many of us questioned, from the point of view of legality had feverish, but we did not attack it for this, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia already did. We attacked him because he didn't solve the department or just what was planted in the agreement. And in the third place, they and the MIR. Miri, counsel, we're a lady of myeuristics. This is the reality, but it gives the feeling that she will advise this issue as if you don't care, as if you don't go with you, and as if you don't have part of the solution. And we want to think that you are an essential part of the solution. Let's not mention the problem, but we do believe that it is the necessary solution that there are workers and workers who ask for twelve hours of rest between day and day, that they ask for thirty-six hours of rest on a weekday, that they ask for no more than forty-eight hours of work, and that they ask for a little more training is that it seems to us to be a waste. And so all the conditions of the workers and workers in the health sector. In a general way we ask him again to recover the 5_per_cent that workers lost or stole from them in 2010, but we think it is a generalised situation. And one reflected on a little more background. What kind of society do we have when we do not care for those who are to take care of our salvation? A malalty system that makes society sick. This is the reality we have. And what reality did we have as of April 2020? We want to recognize that controlling the effects of the Covid-19 were complex, that we want to recognize, but we want to introduce another premise, that it was the weakened state of the public health system that caused its rapid col·lapse, that it is another analysis for us absolutely valid. The 061, which has turned into a desperate evil for Catalans and Catalans, workers and workers of the health system without EPis, without any sanitary material, lack of breathers at some moments at the limit, lack of ICUs, even of beds. That's what we had. And, Counselor, we have doubts, and we want to convey it as a question of whether we have a health crisis situation like that of April-May 2020, whether we are prepared or prepared, or whether our health system is prepared. We don't think so, but we'd like you to answer that too. And alternatives: March 10th, we went to the Palau de la Generalitat with eight concrete proposals, which we explained to them at that meeting. And the first was to strengthen primary sanitation, primary care. What did the department do? So shut down CAPs and what they call local consultants. We then asked: "Manage public and private resources collectively and from ownership. You do without private control, we have a health crisis. A surprising response, the counselor tells us: "There is no private sanitation anymore, and what they knew after that was not only that there was no private sanitation, but that you were preparing a decree because those who manage privately may have guaranteed 40,000_euro when managing high ICUs derived from Covid-19. We asked him for PCR's massive and serologies, and the government's response, suspended the Pla Orfeu, and, for another band, a contract with a private company of 4.5_million. We asked him more first to follow up, and the government's response, go with a contract of 18_million euros to Ferrovial, which proved to be bad, that it didn't work since the first moment and that it was a failure. And look, you're talking about independence, and the management of our public services the fan denies sovereignty through the management of private businesses, which even some of these have manifested itself against the democratic rights of our people. And in accounts of building collectible rights, you, attention to individual rights. Look, we are not against distance, hand and mask, we are also in favour, but this must be accompanied by collective measures and class analysis. Distance. What does "distance" mean when no one guarantees us, in public transport, distance? And it is not the responsibility of the Generalitat, we also want to say; some of it is, of responsibility, on public transport; it is the Assembly of Barcelona, and the State. Hands. At mountain ranges, does the Labour Inspectorate appear or not? Do you guarantee mountain ranges that workers and workers can rent their hands? I'm masquerades. We want to provoke another reflection. We begin to have Catalans and Catalans who, after the first free mask, do not see that their economy can assume to change masks as it should be. And, therefore, we should also recover what in the first moment, or in the second moment, was donated from massive distribution of masks, especially for this 20_per_cent of Catalans and Catalans who are found in the outburst of the poor. And you have to remember the counselor– and, if not, we want to remember it – that we have moved another trilogy of answers. In front of the distance, we also give it closeness, which are the primary care centres and preventive action; in front of the hands, we give it to the head, which means two things: planning and CAP, primary care centres; and in front of the mask, which we say covers our face, but we also agree, we go to see it more through Massius PCR. We have also set up from the first moment a plan of work: more financing, internalization of services, reinforcement of the primary school, more contracting of workers and workers, better of their working conditions and recovery of the face visit, not at the first moment, but at the moment when it stopped being done. But we've also done something else, Counselor, which is to tell him all that we've come out of. And for us it does not have to come from the mortgage that the European Union will put on us if we accept certain deadlines, because this will end up paying our grandkids and our daughters. This has to come, and we have pointed out, from the more tribute of great fortunes, of great enterprises and of those who enter more than sixty thousand euros. You, here, on April 24th, voted against this. It has to come from here, because we are in a crisis situation and that has a better situation from an economic point of view has to be supportive and solidary with the society we live in. What was the answer? So, surprise; no one had ever imagined it: an interdepartmental commission and a document made for an expert commission. That, I'm sure, had never thought of it before. And we asked him, counsel, and we asked him again: Do you take this document? Yes or no? And he made two statements in the document, so tell us whether or not you hire them: "Generate an alliance with public organizations, local world, businesses and non-profit sector with an interdisciplinary joint committee to make consensual decisions. You don't make decisions, they'll be taken by the companies. As we refer to it literally: "To establish mechanisms to enable contracting by primary care of complementary tests and first visits of specialized care. Privatization of the city hall. Are you going to argue today, Counselor? And, look, maybe he doesn't want to answer us, if the answer we want isn't for our group, the answer we want is for the Catalan health system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia and has the word of Congressman Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.22.0	Thank you, Vice President. President in office, substitute, interest, advisors... At first place I wanted to do a first reflection on the opportunity of the debate, because we have the feeling that up at a bad time, right? Upstairs with a functioning government, with limited skills, which are limited to de-patching ordinary subjects and, therefore, not to take new political action. And this, surely, will be another argument for the government not to comply with the agreements that this Parliament can take, so in relation, today, to the health issue, right? It's more of an argument, because the government, this government, I think it's characterized itself to ignore in a rather important way and solemnly the agreements we adopted in Parliament, isn't it? I also believe that more than two months ago this initiative was presented by the Ciutadans Group and, also, the groups supporting the Government felt that it was much more important to talk about the monarchy than not to talk about sanitation, or they also felt that it was much more important to make a ple in order to welcome the disqualified president than a ple in order to talk, for example, about sanitation. But it is obvious that health and sanitation are a priority today, as at least, as at least, for the opposition groups that celebrate the arrival of this House. It's raised... It's a specific debate raised in relation to the health situation created by the Covid pandemic. And in this sense, I think that, as we have had a specific debate about the effects of the Covid, I think it's worth it – and I think that most groups have made it – debate about the health situation. And, in this sense, some very brief reflections and some figures of the situation before the pandemic. That, basically, before the pandemic, I think it was generally known that primary care was experiencing a progressive deterioration in recent years, that there was a shortage of important specialists and that there were difficulties and tensions. This also led, for example, to the November 2018 metre of meths. I mean, there were problems. A date, huh? : Catalonia allocates a 13_percent of health care expenditure to primary care; the middle of the Spanish community is 14_percent. The WHO recommendation is 25_per_cent. And in relation to the specialized attention, waiting lists that are rising and that, therefore, it was necessary to adopt measures, measures of shock, measures to put up with the coup for one side, but also structural measures to ensure that in the future the waiting lists do not only come to light, but only start to decrease. And all this was related to the government's presuppositional policy. On this floor? No, of various governments, obviously. Many times the president in office, vice president, economic advisor reminds us that we have had six years of continuous economic growth. It's true, we've had six years of economic growth, but there's been four years that the government hasn't made assumptions. Four years, some with the support of Republican Esquerra, the other with Republican Esquerra between the government and, more importantly, with the responsibility of the Economy Council, right? But this is a reality, and it certainly explains the fact that most of the Spanish communities have recovered the pre-economic and financial expenditure of 2008 and 2012, and in Catalonia we are at the top and we have not recovered that level of expenditure, right? For example, public health expenditure on GDP, 4.7_per_cent Catalonia; the average of Spanish communities, 5.5_per_cent. These percentages of the year you'll get better, but we don't cheat on the lonely: they'll get better because GDP will have fallen – the Spanish government said today – by 11.2_per_cent. But, for example, staff salaries, how many resources do we allocate to staff salaries? So Catalonia allocates the 35,1_per_cent of the greeting assumption, and the middle of Spanish communities allocates the 45,1_per_cent. Or, mirin, another topic that is current: to MIR teaching, how much do we dedicate to it? So we dedicate a 2,6_per_cent of the budget, and the average of Spanish communities dedicates a 3,7_per_cent to it. All these percentages are the lowest of all the Spanish communities, and therefore, this explains, surely, a little which was the situation we had before the pandemic. And, obviously, the pandemic is what makes the situation complicated, and it makes it very complicated. I've already talked about 061, and I make my own arguments that have been used: the collapsing situation that lived because of the lack of contingency plans. But this isn't a toilet, it's: let's learn from it. If circumstances of these characteristics are given, we need a contingency plan that predicts what we need to do to try to address a situation of these characteristics. But, of course, when we get 061 to have a reinforcement that is able to meet the needs of this service, because many citizens use this service, what we can't do is, pim-pam, we change all the staff, we pose it all again, and then everyone has to start learning from scratch, and that causes a drop in the service. This doesn't seem like a waste to us. In relation to primary care, mirin, from closed CAPs... I'm here, sorry'm, huh? But there's one..., we can't say territorial inequality, if they want to, but I think more than territorial inequality what's a certain confusion, because there are some CAPs that are locked, others that aren't locked, others that are telephonic, others that share telephonic care with face care. There are uneven re-openings, with a lot of tasks related to the Covid ordered, logically, and with all the reason of the world, but there is a certain disconcert on the part of the citizenry. All of this, what does it turn out to be? So that ends up causing a lot of citizens, when they find themselves in front of a doubt and they can't contact 061, or the phone call they receive through their CAP doesn't satisfy them – because, man, trying to get you to diagnose some disease through the phone..., obviously phone call is useful, but not always, right? – so this will often cause this city to end up in hospital emergencies. Consequence: saturation of hospital emergencies. And this is already living – this is already living. Let us know a plan of reinforcement of the primary; well, I'd just miss it. The sector already warns them that it is insufficient, and, moreover, announces a vacancy for the week that it is going. Therefore, the mass of uncertainty cannot be. Why is it that, in addition to the Covid tasks – the Covid managers, attention to the schools, attention to the residences, the cracks... –, more the ordinary activity that should last long..., on whom does it have a functional impact? Is it affecting all of the city, but basically who is affected by this saturation in primary care? So about people who suffer chronicles, who have stayed, let's say, in a _second term, and who, precisely, are people who get used to being great people. Specialized attention. She's also obviously affected. The waiting lists... Councilwoman Budo told us about transparency; well, I also want to talk about transparency, right? , because until the May of this year we had monthly waiting list data at all hospitals in Catalonia; since May neither is published – neither is published. Therefore, we had 824,000 people on waiting lists at the end of the year, or the month of generation. The maig had not grown, because obviously, if we tank the consultations there are not nine people on waiting lists, don't grow the number of people on waiting list, grow time. And time, by May, had increased approximately in a few days – we think that it was practically the time to lock, and that there could be no diagnostic tests, no interventions, no consultations, therefore, has its logic. But that was in May. Today we don't know how we are, Counselor, and we want to know how the waiting lists are, how the expert consultations are, how they are diagnostic tests, and how the intervention lists are. I've already told them more than once and I repeat to them: I don't presume universality with 824,000 Catalans on the waiting list. For them this service is not universal, nor is it for people who were in a residence and when they needed sanitation, sanitation and public health they had no knowledge of their existence, practically. [[Widow's remorse.]] Nor do we talk about universality when instruction is given with therapeutic stress limits for people of certain ages. No, no, Universality is all, huh? And, for that matter, we're very careful about this. So, as I said, we don't just need to recover the level of activity ahead of the specialized attention, but we need to absorb the activity that could not be done. I wanted to talk about residences, but it's the same. Quite on time, and, more importantly, I took advantage of it to make a record, didn't I? The allied residents of the health system, of course, this has been corrected, corrected and further corrected in the future. And let me at this point, so make a record for all the people who have died in this pandemic, for all the people who have suffered from the disease and their families, and for all the people who have suffered from it now. And I say this now especially in the area of residences, because I want to have a special mention for a residence that we knew yesterday, that it is a residence in Cubelles, where fifty-four residents, there are forty-seven infected, and forty workers, there are no twelve infected. Therefore, allow me to send you from here a greeting, a record and a lot of souls to all these people who are in this residence of Cubettes patenting this situation. Symbolically, because the record does it absolutely for everyone. In another order of things, counsel, we celebrate the committee of experts on reforms to the system of salvation, we share many of the proposed measures. But what is strange to us is that the government needed a pandemic to find out that it was necessary to take measures to strengthen the health system. That's what's strange to us – I've already told your appearance in committee and I repeat it today. Finally – or ending, ending –, presuppost, councillor. Presupposition. As I said, we're on the verge of recovering health care expenses from the crisis. And let's go to the presupposition of 2020. The owner of the data, another time, who I gave to his appearance. Pressupost executed by the Department of Health 2020: there are 2,600_million more euros than there were in April when we approved the presuppositions. But 1,600 have been used to pay deserved spending of the year 2019, one part with Covid funds of the State; 900 more have arrived of Covid funds of the State; another part arrive of major beasts of the financing system; 80_millions of the contingency fund, and only 20_millions of reordering of expenses of other departments, only 20_millions. To illustrate if 20_million is too little. Look, 20 million is almost as much as the bidding they made to a company to track down the disease. So, and this is all the effort to reorder the government's funds, on a premise of 24,000_million euros, excluding the Department of Health, which have been able to do until now? Twenty-million euros? So, honestly, we can't share this situation. And we are convinced that you will have to reverse this. More in need? Look, if we've already told you, in the first instance yes – let's not forget that after all this has to be paid, eh? – In the first instance, more deficient, of course. More finance? Okay, too. Don't let empty boxes; vagina where funding is discussed. But it's okay, too. Now, you're also making an effort and reordering spending and prioritizing spending. I'm done. Before the emergence, we are convinced that it is essential to mobilize all available health resources, all public and private – public and private – and that is how it has been done. But now I'm not going to the debate about whether public sanitation or private sanitation, I'm going to another debate. And it's that we have a health resource that is often forgotten, but it exists. But there are more than 3,200 points to all of Catalonia, distributed equally throughout the territory and with health professionals at the front, which are the pharmacy offices. And the pharmacy offices on this emergence are tasked with certain tasks, even if they are given access to the medication plan of the malalts, so that they can extend long-term treatments. And it has reached other agreements – distribution of hospital dispensing medicines... – and they have done other tasks. What I'm planting... – I'm planting it, I'm not saying we have to do it, I'm saying I'm planting it – and if we plant the cribratges and the tests and the tests that are being done at the doors of the CAPs, in the open area, can we do the pharmacy offices? And what if when the time comes for the distribution of cows to be started, what are the possibilities for the pharmaceutical offices to work together? I left it in the air, we'll talk about it, but I think it's worth it. I finish – thirty_seconds, Vice President. The councilwoman of Salut has told us, she has finished her intervention saying that she wants a republic of citizens free. So, look, we tell him that we want a society of citizens free and free. Society, because it's a more inclusive concept; including Republicans, including monarchs and even including anarchs. Freedom – freedom – we already have it; in any case, who wanted to take it from us was you during the last parliamentary term. And, finally, greeting, counsel, I think it's more than just proving that you can't guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then there is the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.24.0	Thank you, members of the Bureau. Good afternoon to everyone, members of the government, companies and fellow MPs. Add fifteen seconds, which may not relate to the debate we are facing right now, but freedom is a word that, coming from the PP and having the Speaker of Parliament more than a thousand days engaged, sometimes makes it hard to use it in this way. What we're here for today is to talk about the health situation, and we understand that it's of obvious importance at the moment. It only beats the deputy of Ciutadans, who in fan flag. They asked for it at the end of July, yes. I believe that this Ple..., is today a monogram designed and structured, but I can't say that in this hemisphere there has been no mention, of Covid and all these emergency measures that it claims. We remind him that President Torra asked for a Covid monogram that he executed; he made a monogram on residences, and the plenums that have been expanded, because among all..., try to attack this great pandemic. Therefore, I understand that this criticism is far too much. Sometimes, it makes sense that they come to Parliament to face a debate and bring it head, sometimes, to a slug, head to an overly aggravated discussion, which we sometimes don't understand and especially in this area, which is that of salvation, even though it masked sometimes of good. I must admit that the space I have enjoyed the most in this Parliament is in the Health Committee. There have been times when we have all shared working days for the country, many times not in a party way, and we have enjoyed it because we have come to a lot of consensus, in a committee that is not simple, for the good that helped us all. Today, however, we felt here a great dissertation of PSC and Ciutadans. I would tell them or profit to say that I found them missing last week, especially the people of the PSC. In this hemisphere, last week it was talking about civil rights and freedoms. We were, gentlemen of the PSC? It was wiped out that day. Because from City, I think we're all used to this speech all the time, in the crescent, in the limit, in the apocalypse. But you, who carry the socialist word in your name, where were you last week? And why am I telling you this? Because we cannot demand an equal society, with equal opportunities, without respecting and fighting at the same time for the civil rights of the people, because they are intrinsically linked: civil rights, public greetings. And, look, the reality – and we've all said it – is that we're in the middle of a global pandemic, that we don't all have on the march. We've all started this: a global pandemic that has affected everyone. But then we forget, what he demanded all this. We'll only move forward if we move on and on. Actually, there have been constructive and positive interventions, but you, here today, show that sometimes you only think about wearing this government down. And today, only if I've tried to give thanks to Councilwoman Vergés and her team, too, so as not to stop working for a minute to help the people of this country. And that also has to be put in value. What really is there that can get better? And so much so! That the situation was exceptional? And so much so! But the councillor has done everything that was humanly possible, I think we can confirm that, too. And take refuge, please, from personal disqualifications. The value of someone who is in front of a council is not if he is a member of or is not a member of his profession, all the team he has at the back, because, quite simply, a councilman, from the Republican Left, understands himself as the spokesman of a human team who works and works a lot. Today, here, you have made many and many projects per flag, which you would probably share almost all, but you may also recognize that: reinforcement of primary education, thinking about professionals, rethinking the health system..., and the first to speak of the National Pact of the health system was the Vergés Councillor. And he didn't do it this month or these last six months; he did it to the first Health Commission, to show before everyone who was the targets of this legislature. Main objective: to strengthen primary education, but above all to rethink it, which primary education we need with the country. The government has made many decisions, very many. And here I think that every parliamentary group, in one area or another, has had to take responsibility for saving the maximum, the maximum, the void, the possibility, despite the fact that a lot of people have not left. Mr. Soler, don't talk about conscience again. Political responsibility is to think of everyone. And yes, sir, and the Vergés Counsellor will probably hurt a lot every lost life, but not in Covid's situation but always. I think it is very disrespectful to use the word: "Can you, over your consciousness, bear this fish? I think we need to be human before everything, and all we demand from others is that we refuse to give it or give it to what we have at our side. And from here, too, so, all the hugs to these patients, all this emotional involvement for the victims' families, for the drawings of professionals, that yes, they suffered a lot the first few months of this pandemic, like the whole society. Because we don't have to forget that we don't only deal... or we just talk about a disease. Our health system does not only want to treat maladies, but it is vital for us to remember that we always treat, care for and treat people. Therefore, empathy, proximity, human scalph, without neglecting the professionalism, resources, involvement and execution of all this. And always with a key word, which is the balance – many of you have not made any –; balance with this constant evolution at a speed never seen, never seen with institutions, and we have to put it in value. And this need for evolution with digitization, accessibility, but with all the templates we've had out of the Covid. We have said: no one hopes that their head restraint will only telematically. Maybe the circumstances have forced us to do so. But this balance, for us, is indisputable, which is the human part, is the proximity that the health system never needs to take refuge. Decisions, all decisions, have been taken only to save life. Political responsibility is that. I'm sure on a day-to-day basis we're after what we didn't know. No one was prepared for what we had to assume. And I'm sure there are always situations that could have solved better. Sure, sure, sure. And whoever aspires to excellence..., this"sure that it will always be, because no one is fit to do the same thing that he did today, but, as a minimum, from the Republican Left, what we always want to be is a little bit better than what we have been today. What can we offer? A message of self-requirement, self-criticism and constant humility. And above all another aspect: we cannot afford, grow, collectively, the error of analyzing it all from the moment of the day, to the month of October 2020, of a pandemic where a virus has arrived unknown throughout the scientific society that forced us..., from a tsunami that in March destroyed us, and now what we do know is that we know a lot more, and we have to be honest enough to say: to every scientific adventure, a re-adjustment of protocol; to every new information, a different way of attacking what we are living. A liquid response, as required by the situation. Because they owe us to the citizenry, and we can only answer it from self-requirement and daily work. And that's what this government has been trying to do since the first minute, being there all the time and with all the resources, and the non-possible, sometimes, too. It is illus and king deny the complexity of the management of a pandemic of these characteristics. It is as cynical as it is reckless to limit itself to political wear and tear to the real hardship of an unprecedented health situation. Here, today, we have come to talk about salvation, and more than ever we value a quality public health system, as we have always claimed from the Republican Left: public, universal and for everyone. And that's why we're working, that's why we're also here, and that's why we want to make the health system the key piece of this country's public system. It's a government priority. We'll give it to you in advance, when you're already negotiating assumptions with the complicity of the commons at that time because these health assumptions are increasing with 900_millions. Before the pandemic, this government's greeting bet was clear. And the extra investment that came from where it came from, so that we could meet all the needs of the Covid. As I said before, this government is trying to make decisions to save the maximum, the maximum, the maximum, the maximum. And, yes, we must assume that we are human. And so much good we have been able to preserve all the lars of our opinions or all our hospitals, but it is a virus that, by lethality and by its perilousness, which we must help us is to improve how to attack it or how to fight it. There is no economy without life, we have to build the economy of life. And this is one of the greatest lessons we have to learn or we have to learn these months. And we would have to have them all, all the reasons, even in Madrid, already, automatically, at the time that it came, not fifteen days later, not coming days later, because in this epidemic we play with our lives and it is a matter of prioritizing life. Political decisions, this time, cannot be extended, must be and must be in the near moment. Therefore, we put all our resources in favor of life. And that's exactly what this government is doing. And yes, you've got work to do. It's defiing the details that governments have been pushing for for other years. Hard flaps that aren't reverse in two minutes. We need to recognize this, because we're talking about a health system that's a transatlantic, the biggest of our government, and all this work costs a lot. I am no longer talking only about the direct health expenditure for the Covid-19, there have been investments in a health system that, still to be said, suffers from chronic underfunding, as many of you have repeated this late. Ignoring this, Mrs. Escarp, Mrs. Ribas, is again cynical and reckless, especially when the Government of Sanchez and Churches is the capital of the Government of the State. I'm not just talking anymore... And we could put different examples of where this government has gone, and before we did, we didn't: gamble for the construction of our hospitals, equip the primary with many more millions to reinforce everything that we didn't just defend by word but also by fact. Or the contingency plan of the residences, which also came out 96 million euros between Salut and Afers Socials; it reacted to concrete needs of the country at the time it is near. But we don't want to stay here. Think of it as a key to the future, too. I think Catalonia is facing a challenge that is much more complicated. Covid has taught us that it has not arrived for two months or three months or four months, but that it will probably force us to have a sustained reaction. And why are we talking about the future? Because each time it's probably more important to react and deal with all the needs of the Covid, but it's time that our health care system goes back to donating all the services we need to prevent, to get to all the points that we know would be able to match to regularize and not have to pay a heavy price because in this reaction we have at this time. And that's what this government does every step of the way, actions in the gaze of how we build a new future into a social health clause. And we would agree with Mrs Ribas in everything she has thought about, with a different look: how we transform this social health need because it really is a common reflection and a long time ago that we are talking about, because we can face this future in a different way. Each time we have a society more enveloped, with a longer life expectancy, and sometimes associated with a long period of chronic disease. But you know how we want to deal with this. We have a very clear headline: the veil is to be enjoyed; the veil is to be lived with quality, and this is our horizon in time to point out the future. And that means, yes, transforming, transforming a way of hearing community reversal. This means that the CAP is not just that center that attacks the disease, but that the CAP is that center that promotes health, that promotes good habits, that makes territories, that makes community greetings, that helps all around them to grow, and to grow in a healthy way. But let's go back to the first wave of the pandemic. They came to double and also triple the UCI's usual beds in Catalonia. That was at the end of March, it happened. It's all gone, but it's gone. And today the councilwoman was announcing to us the contract of two-hundred_five hundred more people, to join the Public Health to resuscitate the cases of Covid's infection. It is a 50_percent more of the staff that there were up to now in the department and, therefore, it is clearly reinforces thus the public structure that works to fight the virus. Because it's so thank you to me. There is one aspect that sometimes in politics we have much easier to dissociate from different concepts. Today we talked about what a big pocket of health care professionals. Yeah. The doctors..., we talked about excellence, nurses, CAP, hospitals, but that's not done, it's not something that works despite... It can't be that we come here to fill the whole health system, the professionalism of doctors, managers. We said: "Hospitals have been converted. If anyone came a_me later and visited the True Hospital, which in this case is what I know most, I didn't know it. How they readjusted space so they could take care of everyone. How they created net circuits, so to speak, to serve Covid's people and others for the other whites. But that's what they did to everyone. And here it weighs everyone, weighs the hospital manager, weighs the doctors and medical teams, throughout the maintenance system, which explained to us how much effort it had to make in order to bear all the needs – even though they are energetic – of the center. And it weighs the department, where the people, and we know it from their own experience, and I think that here everyone, in one environment or another has been behind us..., as you haven't slept, as you've missed the hours of sound, as you thought, as you've rethought, as you've readjusted, as we've tried, the money, prove and structure that what you can do is attack it with the greatest possible possibilities. Therefore, if we speak collectively, we speak collectively, but we respect everyone, from the first manager to the person who, as you wish, disinfected the rooms, because everyone has put in everything that was needed, and I think it is not fair to leave anyone. It's news that we're up there, too. Lately, there's been this negit. So, September was the return to school, and that wasn't easy people, it was one of the clearest examples. We all knew the need, but there had been denials between families and the education collection. Normal, human: the unknown land always awakens emotions of for, of prudence, even sometimes of disconcert towards the new, towards the unknown. But we must recognize that it has been done, and it has been done well, with many hours of work going on, thinking, rethinking and rethinking every new pass or scientific data that was put in our abyss, because school is the most powerful and necessary social tool. And the school dropped out. And more than 93 percent of the classrooms are in operation. And yes, probably he's had to go to some school, you know we live in Covid's time. We got a tweet from Dr. Trilla the other day from Biocomsc's analysis regarding the opening of the schools. He said to us: u, Covid's incidence has not increased in the community; two, the cases at the schools do not generate chains of infection between students and teachers. And what we also have to put into value is that the protocols at school – and, like the CAP, it has also adapted that these protocols, when a Covid is detected, are in the most pleasant and least disruptive way for children – have worked. Therefore, here we bring the praise to all this work that everyone has done: teachers, families, teachers, department, assemblies, delegations and, above all, children, who always give us an example of how it can be adapted. Because we're all needed. We've been talking about assemblies, we've been talking about deputies, we've been talking about institutions... everyone, everyone, everyone is needed. Because sometimes we pose on the table... it looks like we compare who's coming and who's not coming. It seems that before we go out to play a game – and they know that I always express myself better with these similes – someone forces us to decide if we prefer to wear, if we prefer the forward center. Maybe I'll talk to you about Marta Vieira, Megan Rapinoe or Alex Morgan. If I tell them if I want to give up any of these players, I probably wouldn't want to give up any; because if I talk about Ter Stegen, Messi, they probably know who I'm talking about. I want to play the game with the best porter, with the best forward and with the best sides, and nobody tells me I have to choose that any of these fish that day don't come out to play. There are all, in this project: together, there is the color that you have in front of you; institutions and, above all, citizens, who also have their responsibility for this social distance, food and hygiene to collaborate among all with this struggle against the Covid. And no, I didn't pick players' names by chance. This look isn't causative, just as it isn't at the councilhouse either. In ugly it is before the vice president Aragonès. From D'Esquerra we prioritize the perspective of gender in health policies, in all their spheres: planning, implementation, evaluation. We want to break stories, we want to break micromasclisms, we want to break a look sometimes masculine mass and always incorporate the look with a perspective of gender to the whole race. Before anyone was wondering: Is it easy to close the Segria? I think that this government confined itself to where it found that there were problems, and I think it would advise it, when the first area it was entrusted was equal and the conca d'Odena, and the decision was the most complicated at that time, it was taken, and we can't say that it did it to the moon, but to its territory of closest proximity. Maybe it's also time to put another reality on the table. The Covid-19 started without any classrooms. That first wave was transversal and it affected everyone just like the inician, but unfortunately, we're no longer in this scene. Structural social inequalities have already made their own, we already have another shot at the table, and the pandemic is no longer the same for everyone. And we see it when we stop looking at the most affected barrels and populations. Just look at what barrels and areas had to be confined to Madrid. Now there are socio-economic variables of great impact that cannot be ignored and that we must have present in any public policy that we have in operation. Quality of work at term, whether or not one has the option of teleballing – that affects where we live and how we live –, the incidence of the type of ‘living', of the square meters, with how many people we share a ‘living', as we have to move around... Therefore, we are also aware that all this now also forms part of our way of dealing with these public policies. We talk... during all this debate sometimes we all tend, don't we? , to explain to us a little bit of political biaix. We felt at the first intervention the deputy Carrizosa who gave us many examples of the management of his party to Castella and Lleó. He may have lost his temper and failed to remember that he is also a member of the Madrid Government. That's why he didn't do it; only the great uncertainties, according to him, of this policy. But it's not the only autonomy they manage. For the first time since 2019, they also manage the Community of Madrid. I guess he doesn't give us the example of his management in the Community of Madrid, not because he's gone unnoticed, but because they want to be tied up and look at the other side. The flying shots they make are not easily explained; it costs to come here to be able to really explain what is going on in the Community of Madrid. Aguado, vice president of the Community of Madrid and Ciutadans, announces on the evening to Televisio Espanyola that they will not judicialize restrictions, because in the background they know that they are necessary, while, in parallel, President Ayuso, of the PP, government in coalition, unilaterally decides that it does challenge the measures to the courts. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, While Arrimadas tries to focus his party supporting the PSOE; with the state of alarm, it's been a few months, VOX and PP stretch them to the irresponsibility of negationism and you are allowed to carry them to the right. Miri, we don't like the situation in Madrid. For solidarity and because, for restructuring, it affects us. But we ask them to be aware of the difficulties involved in managing this global pandemic, to stand up for electoralism and to be able to reach a few points of agreement for the sake of the public health system in our country. We remember them: the pandemic has reached anywhere in the world. And yes, say, the counselor seems to be mogui in an independent way. And no, I think even Minister Illa has spoken many times about complicity with Councilwoman Vergés at the level of agreeing measures and actions. And yes, if the information meetings that the Socialist Party organizes sometimes are just that, sometimes listening to the press wheel of the day before, one already knows what will happen. And, Mr Soler, from the most sincere point of view, you and I came to this Parliament at the same time, to the Health Committee, and I am glad to hear it. I look forward to those interventions of the principle, in a purposeful way, appreciating everything that does well for the health system, because you know that there are many things that do well for you, and contrasting that point of demand that matters. So, I'm running that Mr. Soler, because now that I'm sitting here with this vision so apocalyptic I'm sitting there a lot and a lot of it, and I have to admit that I've enjoyed those first days with you. Mrs Escarp told us: "There are other ways to manage. I already said, all parliamentary groups must have some time when we get out here at the Faristol. Tell us why the first option was to refocus the entire purchase of material with a Ministry of Health that has no muscles, that has no infrastructure and that does not have the skills to finish these tasks, at the most critical time of this pandemic? Is that the way you understand there's another way to rule? Tanmateix, is there another way to govern as you are doing with the Madrid Community? We'll see a big screenplay one day. Actually, flags were not lacking, but answers that day... And this photograph isn't of today, of yesterday, or of yesterday, when Madrid's numbers were already very and very dangerous, not only for them, but collectively throughout the country, because, as you said, you don't know geographic limits. What happened? Is this the way to rule? Is that the way? Not to do anything? So things don't work out and society's in danger. Yesterday we felt as if they were talking about the fiscal objective and above all how today they made the flag that the different assemblies could serve their Romanesque. But we have memory – we have memory – because the PSC took the "ep" to the Congress of Deputies, and we're left with it, and we'll think what we're doing. But there was a revolution, this revolution was a revolution, it was a revolution, and it took a step back, because of these Romans, of right and justice, I think that it is the different assemblies that have to be arranged. And Mrs. Albiach – even though she isn't –, my neboda would say that perhaps with what she has explained to us she has made a bit of a trap, as she would say. Catalonia asked for 2020..., the reference deficit level of 0.2 is proposed, which we consider to be insufficient. 2020: 0.2. Catalunya asks for a 1_per_cent. Ask for a 1_per_cent vol to say 2,200_million euros in deficit by 2020. 2.2 is for 2021, 2.2 is for the coming year, which will not be Covid. We don't cheat on maths, we don't cheat, because it's one way, well, a little curious to explain numbers and data. With reference to the PP, I after seeing these days everything that came out of the management of the Community of Madrid, from the management of Mrs. Díaz Ayuso, allow me, Mr. Rodriguez, that doesn't make it any more. And to feel them to you also talk about the universalization of sanitation, when you are the ones who put on the table the rationalization of the health system, which left many people out of the health system, I think they are words. With reference to the CUP, yes, there are differences in the management of the Republican Left and the "socio-vergency". Two very clear examples: Hospital de Móra, Hospital de Reus, purchased to be managed for the public health system. The return of the working conditions of the public health system workers and public workers, who are aware that it is necessary to continue to improve, because it is complicated to turn, as I said before, a transatlantic in a very short time. And, as I was running out of time, the other day he was listening to an epidemiology that told us: "This health crisis is not independent of the rest of the crisis that we are living in the world, it is between an economic crisis and it is between an ecological and environmental crisis. That makes us think, that makes us rethink. My mother, when I was a little girl, said to me that... "Anna, if you don't dare, if you can't rest in time, your thing will shut you up and force you to be home two or three days, because, if you can't hear it, he'll make you hear it somehow. I think that among all, overall, we are told: "Hey, hold on. You did. We're not doing well. You're still smart enough to readjust. And this is what Esquerra Republicana wants to defend, a model of sustainable future, feminist and thinking about people, and with equal opportunities as the flag. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Lluís Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.26.0	Thank you, Mr. Secretaries. Vice-President, Health Adviser, Counsellor of the Presidency, Counsellor of the Interior, Deputies, Deputies, Members, let me begin my intervention with a question that has to do with the methodology that I will follow in my presentation on these... Not only by, in some way, concretely and determine which is the situation today of the Covid-19 pandemic in Catalonia, but also by trying to respond, in some way, from the perspective of Junts per Catalunya, some interventions that have taken place from this specific Pleth, that we do understand that it is opportune, that has taken place at the time that from a formal point of view it has been possible to plan for part of the Bureau of Parliament, and to speak from Covid-19 to Catalonia – not only in Catalonia – but in Catalonia. And the possibility for each of the parliamentary groups to formulate their proposals seems to me to be the most necessary, not only for us, from an internal point of view, but also for the citizenry. However, I will try to ensure that my intervention does not follow or be used for unjustified cophoism or for excessive and apocalyptic criticism, as some parliamentary groups have done in part in their interventions. It is true that they have, in some ways, channeled much better than their proposal, but in some moments it did seem to me that the presentation and the appreciation that is made in certain very concrete questions, which I will do, were excessive and exaggerated, and, even so, from a political point of view, demagogic. Today data suggests that there is also a way to focus the pandemic from data, which is certainly not exactly the most human. In fact, the most human, there has been reference, is to think of the lives of people, and these 13,423 people who have left their lives in the past months and in the people around them. President Torra, who was supposed to be here, for reasons of basic political repression, not only because of the Supreme Court's judgment, but also because of the radical change in the case law that the Constitutional Court has made in respect of questions that you have to see with questions of incapacity and elections, which has made a radical change, as it has done since 2017 with other questions that you already know, it is certain that it cannot be here, but I do want to recognize his task of coordinating the Government at complicated times, his leadership also at the time, above all, of transmitting information and of transmitting knowledge to the citizenry, and of appearing at times when the citizenry expressed confidence in the political leaders and coordination of the Government at that time. And he always ended his interventions by referring to a particularly transparent issue, which first, and which must be prioritized, and we understand that the government has done so since the first day, and the parliamentary groups mostly also, is people's lives, by any other issue. He once said that, and for what he does to the government's appreciation he respects the management of the pandemic. Today it has come out, precisely, and against some expressions that have been made here by other parliamentary groups, that the perception of the management, on the part of the citizenry, that the Government has made is good. They are objective, empirical data of the CEO, which say, basically, that except in the field of residences, what is certain is that in the field of salvation – hospitals, basically –; in the field of Bombers and Rockets, precisely with a higher note, almost a set, and in the questions they have to see with communication and with the schools, which I will also talk about, with access to the schools from September onwards, the value is good. It is not certain that there is a negative appreciation of the citizenry respecting the management of the Government, and this remains, I insist, pale in this fact that today, precisely, has come out of the CEO. And that's important, among other things, because sometimes we use the perception and opinion of the citizenry to make political decisions, and in this case it's also transcendent. Citizenship also believes that Catalonia's health system needs reforms, and it creates about 84_per_cent of the people who have answered or responded to different queries, and the will of most of these parliamentary groups is to understand that a reform of the system is needed. But it has been exposed in such a way that it generates a certain paradox. The pandemic has actually laid on the table the shortcomings of the health system in a radical way. But the possibilities and the system of solving, precisely..., these questions cannot be done in any way – and I say this especially for the Comú Pode group – from the extraordinary foundations of the Covid, which come, precisely, directly from the State. Because this is extraordinary for a very specific moment, but it does not solve the strategic and basic problem of our country's health system, which is an endemic deficit of almost 5,000_million euros, which is not said by the Junts Group for Catalonia or by the parliamentary group that supports the Government of Catalonia at this time, but says it practically, absolutely everyone. Even those parliamentary groups that have been ruling in the Spanish State for years, with absolute majority, with relative majority, and which may have done so and have not done so, and, for another group, governments that today have the capacity to redirect and transform, from an economic point of view or to finance, the possibility that the Catalonian health system is consolidated and that the situation of economic infra-finance that it suffers is not to suffer. Because, in the background, to demand that the Government of Catalonia invest more, and to draw economic data from what the Government of Catalonia does, and to make comparisons, for example, as some parliamentary group has done, respect the comparison with Catalonia's GDP respects the reversal in health that has been made, in some way, distorting reality, being scarcely accurate from an argumental point of view, and above all not responding to reality. What needs to be done, taking into account Catalonia's GDP respects the State, is that Catalonia collects resources in line with the contribution it makes to the GDP of the State, and that it is demanded many years ago. Probably the expenses in health that the government could do or that it could throw at the government would be much bigger than they are at this point in time. And what they've done, more than that. Not only have the contingencies of the assumptions been taken advantage of, but expenditure reorientations have been made. And when someone has questioned the priority that the government has given to the question of salvation and the question of the pandemic, it is clear that all the reorientations of the presuppositional parties that there were other departments have been completely redirected – all of them – to the Department of Health, in this attempt, in some way – and sometimes complex – to deal precisely with the expenditure deserved and executed, and that it must be presuppositionally recorded in subsequent exercises. And that's because we don't have the funding to carry out the economic measures that the country needs right now. But it's not just about the pandemic now. The deficit is strategic, endemic, and, more importantly, historical, and this has to be solved by some parliamentary groups that have influence and decision-making power in the Spanish State today, because that's the way it is. In the first wave of the pandemic, certainly, there was uncertainty, complexity, there was a need to assess the risk, precisely, of this pandemic with some difficulty, out of ignorance, for lack of information. And somehow, also from a more scientific perspective, which is an important and necessary way to approach the pandemic..., it made it difficult because the virus was actually unknown, its ability to expand and its ability to contagion was not known. And, therefore, in March, when I also attended, in the representation of Junts per Catalunya, the Palau de la Generalitat, it is not true that the gravity of the situation is not laid on the table. Almost all parliamentary groups agreed that the situation was difficult; all parliamentary groups. I do not recall the intervention of any parliamentary group that said that the situation was not difficult and that the perspective was complicated, complex, difficult and necessary for a short-term government. And that week's sale closed the schools. And I remember perfectly critical of the decision to close the schools at that time. And it is obvious that at that time it was the decision that it played, up to the point, also – and there was reference by the deputy Republican Left –, and it was critical for some parliamentary groups, the form or development of the management that was respected to the schools. Obviously there is a job of the Department of Education, it is his responsibility, his obligation and the need to coordinate not only with the territorial delegations, but with the directions of the schools. But putting in value, too, the pocket of these directions, they've done a good coordination job, they're doing it. It is impossible, there is no zero risk with the pandemic, if it does not have, precisely, problems at school level. But the scientists say this – let's not call it politics, which sometimes lacks credibility in some of the statements we make–, certainly, the choices are a minimally secure space in which we can only leave our children with peace and confidence, but it is a space, precisely, where the possibility of contagious is reduced in an important way. Therefore, from a perspective of education, all those speeches that are made that did not seem to be possible to return with some normality to school, a normality that is not a normality, but that is to fit us, somehow, to these new conditions that the pandemic imposes. Therefore, from a point of view of education, in this sense, it is obvious that the difficulties exist, that there will be more problems, that there will certainly be more concrete and surgical confinements, but the situation today at schools is acceptable. There was also an intervention yesterday by Dr. Argimon explaining what the situation of the pandemic is today, giving data. But I would be particularly interested not only in concrete data, but in making an assessment of what Dr. Argimon's intervention has been since July, when it is expected that the second wave of the pandemic would be much later than it really has been. We've had the pandemic, the second wave of the pandemic, before what I was expecting. And, therefore, all the planning had to accelerate and work much more intensely. This change in strategy, certainly, in the epidemiological control in Catalonia has come to an end – the council has already explained it in a very concrete way – with massive cribratges, which is precisely one of the options that is being proposed for some territories of the Spanish State that today have difficult problems and that are, in some ways, managing the pandemic, obviously in a way that is not entirely correct. It is obvious that Madrid is not doing well, that there are very high positivity taxes. And, therefore, one of the solutions that the technicians, the specialists, the epidemiologists, are, precisely, tossing out massive cribratges. And that was done to Catalonia before it was done to other territories of the State. And it is precisely the place where a summary of cases was detected, that there was precisely the danger of this miscontrol. And what they brought to an end, precisely, the Government of the Generality and the Department of Salvation were these massive cribratges. And, basically, for questions that they have to see, too, with demographics and social issues. I have listed, to prepare the intervention, the surgical microcontainments that were made at the time, that were very focused on different areas, precisely, of very high population density, in very small habitats and in which, precisely, there lived, in these houses or in these homes, many people. This is the social problem of this pandemic, which we are very interested in talking about and solving. They're the social factors of a very serious pandemic. It is the social environment, which is the agglomerations, the small habitats and the fact that these floors, in most cases, are overworked. And this defines what is the social precariousness that, from a point of view of Government, is trying to resolve and that very concrete steps have been taken by the Department of Labour – and that we salute and congratulate – to resolve these issues. These cracks are, in part, the solution and, somehow, they have resolved or have made the dispositions and characteristics of the possibility of reboot to short-term existence, somehow, minvades. But we are aware of the social consequences of this pandemic. In this we have coincided with different parliamentary groups. I wouldn't want to touch it more intensely either. But, of course, there is a problem of social fall, there is a social face that we need to resolve and that seems to me that we all agree. In Barcelona, concretely, to the area of Torre Baró. There's been talk about the microcontainment of the Segria. It was a difficult, complex decision, but at that time it helped solve the problem. Even from an economic point of view, that there were some of the complaints that existed at the time, they tried to resolve. It is true that we have had to balance from this perspective, but the priority has been and must be, precisely, people's lives. There were also the background barrels and the Llatí barri, from Santa Coloma de Gramenet; the Torrassa, to the Hospitallet. All these veins, barrels of these important cities, have a serious problem, which is, and I have already referred to, the precariousness of social careers. The Middle Oriol already, today, precisely – one of the people with the most knowledge and, moreover, who does more pedagogy of this knowledge, which is also especially necessary and transcendent–, commented that they must keep track, they must keep mass tests and, moreover, if they are given the need to plant very localized confinements for issues that they have to see with the outbreak of the pandemic, they must plant themselves. And he was setting up a future scene at the same time as he had to see, too, the compatibility between the flu virus and the Covid virus. And, certainly, it said that the stage that is presented from a seasonal point of view is more complex and more complicated, because it is given the circumstances because the Covid is able, in some ways, to intensify for the lowering of temperatures and because the people are more in inner spaces than in open spaces. They refer, too, to other specialists, who in this matter must have their transcendence. Dr. Argimon said, taking advantage of the acronym of the PCR, that in order to manage this crisis well, this pandemic and to assess the risks of this pandemic had to be proactive, it had to work well... – and there has already been a reference by some parliamentary groups –, which has to be seen with complicity with the assemblies, there has been and is, and the assemblies have played a transcendent role in the management, especially in the first months. We have helped to distribute material, we have helped with what you have to see at school level because all children and children who have difficulties from an economic or social point of view at home can keep their computers at home and the connectivity needed to continue with the teaching, and from this point of view we have been involved with local administrations, more than concrete details of the assemblies that may somehow be uncoordinated. But, in general, there has been an complicity on the part of the joints in these questions. And, besides, error is also a responsibility on the part of the citizenry. This is a transcendent aspect. It had to be pedagogy, and since the government had done so, and these appearances, all of this, somehow, transmission of information that has taken place in public appearances by the councillors, by the president and, at this time, by Dr. Argimon, allow the general awareness of the need to take action and to bring them to an end. We've been talking about primary care, and I need to make reference, because we're talking about primary care from many years ago. The primary attention, said the president of Community Health, who is Antonio Sisó, comments in many moments that the bulwark has been to precisely avoid that hospitals are col·lapsessing. And the role of primary care is, it was and will be transcendent and especially strategic for a health system that it wants to have or that it wants to satisfy the needs of citizens in short, by the way. There have been many people affected by burn-out syndrome in the first place; there has been physical exhaustion; there have been changes in activity and changes in hours that have occurred – in many cases and concrete – a certain chaos; there have been problems of work and family reconciliation; there have been – there are, and we must try to resolve it, he will advise – under precarious conditions. It is true that there are some people in the health sector who, by physical proximity to France, at least, are planning to work in France in some areas. We have to avoid this absolutely. We need doctors, we need nurses, and in the field, above all, of what is the territory, and in the areas, precisely, of maintaining the principle of equity in our system of salvation, we need to give better wages, and we need to make a very important effort in this matter. We understand the difficulties and we understand the problems of financing, because, in fact, asking for an increase in wages without looking into what is the economic context and the need for more resources on the part of the State or a major and better distribution is complicated and difficult. But the primary needs – there has already been a reference, and measures have been taken and they will be taken, in addition, in the short term – a new approach, to take them much more into account and to put in place a reform, because they cannot only develop more tasks but can develop them much better. Today, too, another action – which the parliamentary opposition groups have not referred to, but we do not need to do, because we support the government – is that some have wanted to face up to what Covid's account is. Cat, who showed up today, and the other one was the State radar. They are not in any case contradictory, they are fully complementary, and therefore there is no problem in this matter. There was no express willingness from a political point of view not to apply this action – no, no, it wasn't – just because it came from Madrid. Because it seems to me that the government has full awareness that acting from a partisan point of view today is especially dangerous, and with the pandemic it is even more so. I would like to focus on some questions that have been raised or that have been put on the table by the different parliamentary groups. With respect to Mr. Carrizosa, who has opened the specific debate, I would only ask him a question, that he has a point of rhetoric, and that perhaps Mr. Soler could answer me on his behalf, or even him, when he had a moment. Because, in fact, he did an intervention that earned everyone's solidarity from a personal point of view, and that's it. But, in turn, the question that I would ask him sincerely, and, moreover, I would like to say that I am opposed to it, is: if what you have asked about the table today and valued so positively of the Catalonian health system, and has applauded, at last, when you have experienced it and participated in it and directly affected it, if this is really the system that you would raise, it gives support, is the system that, in fact, defense, or defense – and, in fact, is already indicated – what is being completed in Madrid. This is the question to be asked by the Ciutadans Group. The system you want is the system that Mr. Carrizosa has defended today, with all the justification, because it works so, so does it work, all the difficulties? Or is it the health system that is managed from Madrid, in which you are partners of the Government? And what's more, the results..., it's not for political reasons, it's that the results are, frankly, very bad and hard and they're really very harmful, until the point that there's been a willingness to prosecute issues that they don't have, from our point of view, no need to do so. Therefore, the question is: with what system of salvation is left, with which Mr Carrizosa, has today explained, why has it affected him very directly, which works, or with the system that is applying to Madrid? That's a question I'd like to ask them and I'd like them to answer. Because, in fact, in that it is the diagnostic of the health system, obviously that the contributions made by the expert commission are transcendent– we believe absolutely – but, certainly, this expert committee that will have to make, at the time, is also to come to the Health Commission and explain who its conclusions are and how many areas have come to it, precisely because it is good to listen to them as well. But it's not just these, it's not... – the counselor explained it already – there are other interlocutors, there are other actors in the field of salvation who can also listen to them and keep them in mind if we really want to transform the system of salvation, as we say. Questions they have to do with risk assessment, which I already mentioned, especially in the area of management and communication. There is a professor at the Institute of Advanced Sustainability Studies, who says Ortwin Renn, who made a precise reference in Josep Maria Antó, who is a professor of UPF Medicine who said that, in the area of complexity, uncertainty and ambiguity, what should be prioritized – and with this I believe we would or would try to agree with everyone else and, moreover, I hope and wish that this is done – it is a priority for scientific knowledge of this pandemic issue. Someone has made reference before many epidemiologists have appeared so spontaneously. My feeling is that the technicians, the scientists who know it are the ones who have to explain the reality, together with the sum of different independent experts. And then he sees the question he has to deal with technical and political management, which, applying the scientific knowledge that moves us, will have to make the political decisions. And I, it gives me the feeling, of our group, that it's like the government of the generality of the pandemic. And this is a question that, from a doctrinal point of view, is much studied. To Assumpta Escarp, who is the deputy of the Socialist Party, I have already referred above all to the question that has to do with the complementarity of the two tracking systems; it seems to me that it is perfectly complementary, it has no problem whatsoever. It is simply to reiterate to him again that it is perfectly possible to defend certain proposals from the Parliament of Catalonia on behalf of the Socialist Party, but we can also ask him that, insofar as they govern the State, he somehow has the need or the interest in which everything that he has to see with the financing or with the state's infra-finance respect for Catalonia's salvation is finally resolved. That's up to you, of course. And while the Covid funds, which are strictly for the pandemic, are somehow presupposed or planned at €13,000_million to the Government of the Generality, what is certain is that they will be completed and there will be the presuppositions and the presuppositions and the availability of resources, precisely, to finance all these expenses. To the People's Party, I've already made reference before. Plant here from an economic point of view to call attention and highlight what it has to do with the imbalance of the gross domestic product in respect of the government's expenditure on expenditure, certainly from an intellectual point of view, at last, excessively burdened. I propose that you also take into account, when calculating these questions, that you analyse the comparative data with the gross domestic product and the financing of the autonomous communities, and, finally, the insistence on the financing needed for Catalonia for which you have to see the expenses of salvation. In short, what Junts for Catalonia asks is that it is perfectly possible to make a specific ple of the Covid, to be critical and to make proposals that the Government can assume, but without, in some way, to leave behind the political mark and the economic mark in which the Generalitat develops its functions. Because it is certain that the vice-president in no case will be able to reorder certain parts of the assumptions of certain departments in order to solve a pandemic of these characteristics and because, moreover, there has already been a reference, it is expected that it will happen shortly, by the end of the day. The situation in general of a third round or to attend to and manage the present is obvious that it is not the same as we had in the first round, and in some of the motions for resolutions which will be presented from tomorrow and which will be discussed in the plenary, and which I hope will be taken further, this question will be taken into account, that this is not the case, that the problem continues and continues for months. And, therefore, we must be aware that the policy of the Government of the Generality will have to be laid down in the coming months, and so often even at the level of assumptions for the year 21, bearing in mind that we live in a very serious pandemic that has consequences for salvation, that has economic consequences that have not given us time to talk about it, that has consequences also from the work environment and even consequences that have been explained very well by other parliamentary groups, and that we adhere to it deeply, in everything that has to do with gender biases in some policies that the delay is to resolve from the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. At the end of the day, I express my gratitude to the Health Counselor for respecting all those people who are working in the field of Health from the department, from the hospitals, from the CAPs, from the consultants of the small towns and villages of Catalonia, and from all the departments, in general, from the government. This is a complex, difficult situation that you deserve to take on as such and that you also deserve to take on the criticisms, which are welcome whenever they are – and most of them are – from a constructive point of view. We need to work on the reform and the transformation of this system of salvation. They have at their disposal the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, beyond the electoral period in which we will enter and beyond the precise circumstances of the pandemic. It is obvious that the pandemic, we agree, has placed on the table the gravity of these dysfunctions and these problems, but it is also obvious that it is absolutely necessary and requires that from the generation of 21 we all agree to make the reform and transformation of this health system that satisfies the concerns and needs of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-06-6301.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. After this first round of interventions by parliamentary groups, we will suspend the session until tomorrow. As you well know, the government's response and the follow-up of parliamentary group interventions will continue to finish the government's control session tomorrow. And the vote on the motions for resolutions following the debate is scheduled for midday. They suspect the session until tomorrow at the end of the day.
