ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. They ask them to vaginate their scons... Let's start the session. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is included in the Ple's folder. And, in accordance with Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they shall be substantiated in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the morning, in the [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I begin with the order of the day, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately, last July 14th she died murdered in Barcelona Gloria Oriana, the seven-time victim of male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age for its record. In accordance with the Protocol of Dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against Masclist Violence, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls for a minute of silence to end the plenary session of dimers at midday, before the facade of the Palau del Parlament, in record of the Oriana Glory. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 1/2003, of universities in Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00035/12]] Let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, which is the debate of totality on the proposal of Law 1/2003 amending law, of universities of Catalonia. In accordance with Articles 140.4 and 116 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall begin this debate of totality with the intervention of a representative of the committee promoting the proposal of the Law, for a maximum of fifteen minutes. Finally, parliamentary groups and sub-groups will intervene, for a period of two minutes each and five sub-groups. Therefore, in the first place and on behalf of the Commission Promoter of the ILP, has the word Anna Roselló and Albesa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, today, the students are in Parliament to present the ILP universities. Today, we're heading to this room to shield the right to education. The students are going to the Parliament of Catalonia to defend the public university, to defend the downsizing of university priests. Getting here has meant a long way. The fever of the past year, the student movement and the educational community pushed the ILP universities. The goal: to shield the law from the downsizing of university pre-publics. We are returning to Parliament with the will to take a step forward for our universities and for the students who will come. We're in Parliament today to get back to college. We are in Parliament to open the doors to the future. Any society should see public education – and with it, the university – as one of the foundational pillars to enhance justice and equal opportunities as tools in the service of citizens and as engines of social cohesion and democratic values. These tools will not be donated if a well-funded university is not guaranteed. Unfortunately, the public university suffers from a strong underfunding. And let's not be fooled, guaranteeing the right to public education also means increasing public foundations for education; it means ending the great chess of the public university: the lack of resources. We come from a decade where the Catalan university system has been exposed to a critical situation. On the whole, the current system has helped to generate more inequalities and systematically exculpate thousands of students, who cannot access the university. The year 2012 the government pushed 66_per_cent university taxes, public prices. I did it in a time of austerity, of detail. And funding for students from the Catalan public universities fell by 37_per_cent and further pre-characterized associate faculty and doctoral students. For one band, funding was reduced to public universities, but for the other, students paid 66_percent more than tuition, from one course to another. The result, predictable: that year they broke their memories, made the year with fewer students enrolled and more economics of the universities. In 2012, higher education was no longer a right to become a privilege. And during this last decade, we haven't advanced to a university ruled by equity. We then went back to the right. Students each time we've encountered more and more barriers at the time of going to college. That's why, that's why the student movement didn't stay in our arms; we went out on the street, we moved tirelessly, we defended the public university. We fought for the drop of 30 per cent of university degrees. In fact, the year 2016 we were here, at the gates of Parliament, where we managed to get approval for a motion that urged to lower public prices by 30_per_cent and to match the prices of degree and master. In March 2017, thousands of students filled the streets of Barcelona to demand that they apply, at once, the downsizing. Therefore, it was not only a demand for student movement, social movements or the rectorates of our universities, it was part of a mandate of this Parliament; a mandate of this chamber, a mandate that the Government will not attend to. November 2018 will be back on the street. The new course had begun, and with it, they kept an abusive price. This context made it difficult for us to take a step forward: the motion to Parliament had proved insufficient. Now, we've proposed to get you armored by the drop in college degrees. It meant putting an end to the dependence on annual assumptions. It was meant to shield the downside, with the objective of ensuring that the public priests would not rise again. The path wasn't easy. There have been many days of struggle, waves and demonstrations. And the answer given to our struggle has been repressed. We also take advantage of this space to remember that our fighting and faculty companions face prison sentences to defend the public university. A few weeks ago, the last repressive reaction came: thirteen companies were asked to take them up to a hundred and two years in prison. Fem, today too, a cry to end the repression of the student movement. Defending the public is no crime. As we say, the path was not easy, but there is no doubt that it was worth it. It is worth fighting for public education; it is worth fighting for public university and it is worth fighting for the future of this country. The ILP wasn't a simple pocket. It has involved great effort and dedication. And the ILP has not been possible without the involvement of couples and athenaeums, Catalan associationism, causation and splaus groups, social movements, student movements and teachers' unions, who have managed to bring the ILP to every raccoon in Catalonia. Thank you. Thanks to all the affiliated entities; thanks for giving us your support and effort to make possible a public university. Thanks for helping us get to more than seventy thousand signatures. Without you, it wasn't possible. Thank you. The students, together with the Catalan social fabric, have obtained more than seventy thousand signatures in the Parliament of Catalonia; we have obtained more than seventy thousand signatures in defense of the public university. And now, let me, it's you, the political representatives..., it's you who have a golden opportunity; a giant opportunity; an opportunity to be on top of it that student movement brings years complaining. Now, more than ever, it's urgent. It is urgent to shield for law the reduction of public university fees; it is urgent to provide public universities with sufficient resources and funding. It's urgent to get the public university back. It is urgent to prioritise equity and equal opportunities in the Catalan university system. The student movement will continue to work in the parliamentary committee. We will continue to fight for a public cent_per_cent education. We'll continue to defend a college model of equity. Today we don't just come to defend the seventy-thousand signatures; today we open the doors to the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roselló. Next, we go back to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups, to position ourselves in relation to this proposal. And in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr David Bertran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.4.0	Well, thank you, President. Deia John Rawls, spoke to his book A theory of justice, about justice with equity. According to him, in order to decide what is the best and most just for our society, we should put ourselves in a hypothetical case, in which all the individuals who conform to it have an original position marked by a veil of ignorance. A veil that would make our personal circumstances not cloud our judgment and ease it to decide how to create a good ex novo society. Rawls went on to say that if every one of us does not know our socioeconomic position at birth, but we can decide how this society should be, the inequalities would be established so that all social positions would be accessible under an equal opportunity that makes the birthplace not an indicator of the chances of success of a city. And that the only one determining was talent and personal effort. So, the ILP we're dealing with here goes from this; from the access of our young people to the main element of social ascent there is: the acquisition of human capital through education. Because a society is fair and functioning effectively, everyone has to be able to access tertiary education, including university education, regardless of their heritage or family income. This, unfortunately, still doesn't happen in Catalonia. As an example, if we rank the people who are at university every year according to their family resources, we see that just 40 percent of that five-year-olds from poorer families are there. While this percentage increases to 80_per_cent for that wealthiest five. An excessive registration fee can be a barrier to entry and retention so you can get the title. In 2012, in Catalonia, the Government of the Generality, of Convergence and Union, chose to push public prices to universities in a 67_per_cent, at the time that it reduced its contribution in transfers to Catalan universities, from 910_million euros in 2010 to 692_million euros in 2012. So the Generalita decided to put this on Catalan students, no longer to improve university funding and make it more competitive, but to cover its retail policy. The most important things that have been done, from among all the autonomous communities and those that have remained the most in time. Because, let's remember, Convergence and Union – now Junts for Catalonia – it was who imposed the price push. But there has been Republican Left of Catalonia, also, which has validated and perpetuated the rise of 67_per_cent, from 2015 to the present. And, in fact, the previous legislatures were voted up to three times, in this Parliament, for this price reduction. Neither Convergence nor the Republican Left have been able to take account of the resolutions adopted by this Parliament. This Parliament, to which, therefore... sometimes, so hypocritically, they confer absolute sovereignty, but only when they agree. In the rest of Spain, in change, the price increases were 17_percent of middle. With autonomous communities that practically did not change their prices, making the difference between Catalonia and the rest of autonomous communities become very significant. And I want to reiterate this: this was because of a decision the Generality made, because that's what she wanted, because that's what she decided. So we say that tuition fees can become a big entry barrier, and that's what the ILP wants to change. And that's why we're giving support to the start of the parliamentary process of ponence. But if we want to go further and look for the deep plot of the problem, we'll see that the children of a large majority of the most disadvantaged classes can't even get there when they can't afford the tuition. Many of these young people do not manage to overcome compulsory education or that which would enable them to enter university, whether for bats or for vocational training. In Catalonia, once again, we lead the race of inequality. Our community is the most correlated, where this correlation is strongest, between the family socioeconomic situation and educational success. And it would be good if we could also deal with this subject in question and with experts who gave us their vision of how to improve public policy in this sense. It seems very clear to us that education from zero to three is one of the main factors to determine the development of a child's knowledge; that more teachers and equipment must be put in place, especially in the most difficult areas, and, obviously, that the teaching should be trilingual, giving dignity to the castle, that it is common language and majority language in Catalonia, and also achieving a much more advanced knowledge of the English language, that today is another great barrier of equality of opportunity. All these elements, together with a tight and substantial scholarship policy, that makes those who work but cannot afford to pay tuition fees have no problems accessing the university and getting the title. So all this – I say – would be ideal if we could deal with it as a matter of urgency, but unfortunately, I am already advancing it to the commission that this government will not doubt even three seconds to blow up the legislature when it convinces it the most. And I would also like to take this opportunity, President, to recall at this moment that, for me, he has been one of the best Catalan and Spanish writers of the last decades, Juan Marsé, writer and descriptor of great Barcelona worlds that brought together and talked to us about our social differences. Personally, there will always be in me the Manolo Reyes carnego, the Pijoaparte, and my intervention today goes precisely from that, that that carnego did not have to give up his aspirations, just as Teresa Serrat did not. Rest in peace. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.6.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. I can't say good morning, counselors; I suppose you're meeting with the Executive Board, but I do think you've been doing well that at least someone responsible for the university community was here today, because the promoters of the initiative have said it, I think it's a battle they've been carrying for many years, it's a battle that many parliamentary groups have been carrying for many years, it's a battle that the university community has been carrying for many years, and it seems to me, honestly, huh? And with all my respect – and they know that I have them all in the department – I think that today someone should be, listening to the debate on this ILP. In any case, in the first place, let's congratulate the promoters. I think they've done a fantastic job. They have held many meetings, many encounters; they have had consciousness, vehemence in the defense of equity in access to university and equal opportunities, and I think this is very important. When many times you feel a few parties, above all from another look and ideology, that young people are no longer what they were, that young people do not fight and that young people are not prepared, so I think that today they have given an example that this is not true, that they are fighting for rights, that they are fighting for ideals and, in this case, for the university, that is the great space of knowledge, of the generation of knowledge, a space of freedom where there is critical thinking, where they teach you, in some way, not only to train as a professional, but also as a person, and I believe that today..., therefore, I would like to congratulate you on this initiative that brings us here. Mirin, in the year 2012 the Government of the Generality approved an increase in university taxes of 66_per_cent. He did so through an agreement he had at the time with the People's Party; I remember, it's very far away, but that agreement was made at the premises of 2012 with the People's Party of Alice Sánchez-Camacho. In fact, that year, that same year, it was possible to make this reduction because Minister Wert, of the People's Party, to Moncloa modified the Law of Universities increasing the forks, increasing the possibility that the autonomous communities would expand the cost that families would have to pay. Then the cost that families incurred in relation to the cost of university was 16_per_cent. It opened up the possibility of her arriving until 25. Well, here in Catalonia, Convergence and Union, well-advanced students with austerity, went to the limit and increased the cost to 25_per_cent. At a time of crisis, they asked the families that their efforts were higher than in many other areas. They did not make a tax reform, because who had more paid, or who had more paid, or who had more effort; they asked the families – all of them – to make an important effort and to pay 25_percent of the cost of these college subjects. I think it was a bad decision that we're still paying. On September 19, 2012, Convergence and Union changed partners, left the People's Party and signed a governance agreement with the Republican Left. At that time, Junqueras signed that governance agreement that basically set a full route for a referendum and a full route of destabilization of this country and of the institutions, as we have seen later. In that governance agreement, there was not so much force for the lowering of university fees. In fact, there was so little strength that neither 2013, nor the 14th, nor the 15th, nor the 16th, nor the 17th, nor the 18th, nor the 19th were reducing university taxes. Left Republican, under the assumptions he approved, which were three– 2014, 2015 and 2017–, did not lower taxes. I'm telling you why we're listening to mermaid songs today. Mirin, fets, and don't talk. And since 2012 there have been two parliamentary groups here that are the ones that have given support to the Government – Together for the Yes, Left, Convergence, PDECAT, Together for Cat – that have made inaction – inaction – to reduce those taxes, unjustly approved and increased for that Convergence Government with the People's Party. And I think it's also worth saying. Especially because it wasn't just an increase in taxes, but it was an offensive to universities in a very clear way. There's-there's been a brutal breakdown of resources. So much so that today's funding for public universities is smaller than 2010's. Today, after the pandemic or the pandemic's enemy, we all recognize that knowledge is so important... it's so important, for example, to find a solution to the Covid through a vaccine. But it's so important to introduce knowledge into the industry that we're still competitive. So, all this time, that's when we could have gambled for knowledge, as countries like Portugal did, we've reduced it; reducing funding to universities, generating precariousness. For example, with the faculty, it has also been said, or, as I said, increasing university fees. Miri, the Catalan public universities are among the least funded by the European public. Catalonia only invests more than Greece, Latvia or Ireland and, on the other hand, has the highest taxes of all that are only exceeded by the United Kingdom, which has a system, so to speak, that would not be in which we would fix ourselves. The report of the Observers of the Catalan University System also stresses that Catalonia is at the bottom of the medium of public finance, both of the OECD and of the European Union. And for what he spends in universities according to GDP is at the top of the twenty-nine states. That is to say, let's go through a lot of misconceptions when you're looking at yourself and seeing those European countries that we often want to be like. We have very little investment in universities, very little investment in knowledge. We remember that the research is 70_per_cent at universities and, therefore, we have punished the university and we have punished the families asking that they pay very high costs for university subjects in the worst years of the crisis. With this 66-per-cent increase, we know, we've become the most expensive community in the entire state. That a young person is enrolled in an Andalusian university or Galicia means that he will pay one-third less than in Catalonia – one-third less; one-third, god-in-law, eh? Four years of nursing career, physiotherapy or Óptica costen 3,028_euros in Seville, 4,675 in Bilbao, 7,128 in Madrid, and, attention, in Barcelona 9,487_euros. That's right, I'll be told about the fairies and the trams. Deceptive steps that are not helping families really get into college and get this equal opportunity that should allow a social lift, which the OECD already says Catalonia has lost, in this sense, two decades. We need two decades, two generations, to get this social elevator we had in our 80s. The Knowledge and Development Foundation, a think tank in the field of education, also said that the increase in taxes had obviously meant a very strong decline in access to university and had reduced students. He even said that the drop-out in Catalonia in the 2013-2014 course was 21.9_per_cent; the highest in the entire State. And they say, and it's true, that 2016, there were initiations, one of the current common ones – Catalonia Yes, it is Pot –, there was also one of the socialists, in which this Parliament approved that taxes are reduced by 30_per_cent. It was the moment that the Government – Republican Left, Together for Catalonia, PDECAT, Convergence – made this reduction, if any, in the case of this mandate of the Parliament. When we put Parliament's mandate and the people's voice in the mouth, this is the people's voice, and it was four years ago that the reduction in university fees was approved. Well, that wasn't taken care of either. And yes, they can now say: "Well, no, but it has already arrived, that. Yes, well, it has arrived with a very hard negotiation in the presupposition of 2020 with the commons... – and now I will be the spokesman of Congressman Lucas Ferro – with a very hard negotiation where the commons said: « There are reduced taxes of 30_per_cent, as it was approved in this plenary, or there has been no presuppositions. And as Vice President Junqueras says, I always like to quote him, huh? So, look, I'll tell Mr. Junqueras looking at him in the eyes, as many times as you need—as many times as you need—that he reduced university taxes, just as he did a tax reform, because parliamentary arithmetic obliged him. Because negotiating led him to this, not because he believed it. If not, in these..., from the end of 2012 to 2019, why didn't you do it, Republican Left, when you were in government? And I had support to do it. Why didn't he do it? So because he simply didn't want to, and the will comes when there's someone who makes him, with the approval of assumptions. And I'd like you to be clear about that. In any case, this 2020 we have had good news, that is that the Government of the State, the Government formed for the PSOE and Podemos, has modified the Law of Universities and eliminated those forks that they allowed..., certainly, the Secretary of Universities at that time, Antoni Castellà, today in the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, which today is not, I suppose you don't want to listen to what we gave him in relation to his management..., but that deputy was the one who, with that possibility of forks, went to the maximum – went to the maximum. So today this is gone; it's gone because there are no autonomous communities fighting, huh? They say they fight, but then they don't... and they do this exaggerated rise in university taxes. In fact, Catalonia will have to be, it will be, the autonomous community that will have to lower taxes the most in these three years, a 43,2_per_cent– obviously was the highest, and, therefore, this effort will have to be made. It is true that there will now be a first part of this course, thanks to the approval of these assumptions of 2020. I look, as I say, policies are shown with facts, with black assumptions on white, and the truth is that this change, this tax reduction didn't come until a few weeks ago. In any case, welcome this ILP; I think this ILP has strength, because it wants to modify the Law of Universities and, therefore, fix that no one can increase taxes arbitrarily. And, therefore, we, of course, will vote in favour of it and fight in this position because, by law, it is established that no one can play in this way with the future of so many young people in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.8.0	Thank you very much, President. In the first place, as it could not be otherwise, we would like to thank the work and compromise of the university ILP promoters and the student movement as a whole for not having for years given up defending the right to education; in defending the right of an educational system that does not secrete for economic reasons, but that makes education a universal right and that makes the public university a university of quality, that is a motor of knowledge but that is also an engine of equality. Thank you very much. I think talking about universities today is talking about how we're coming, where we are now and where we want you to be at the public university in this country for these years. 2011 was the year in which an increase in taxes of 66_per_cent was approved, between Convergence and Union and the Popular Party in Catalonia, and a 20_per_cent breakdown on the assumption of public universities. We have commented on it several times, but that approval, which seems to be one of many, was a historic approval: for the first time, the right to public education in this country was not a right in expansion, but in backwardness. For the first time, the promise that... the children of those who were denied the opportunity to study had the most difficult conditions than their peers to access a public university, and for the first time, the ‘Government of the best' questioned that higher education and public education in this country were also an engine of equality. And he condemned the young people to the fact that the most they could aspire to Catalonia was to go to London to serve coffee, because they had no future here. And from there, to what we called a brain drain, it was only the exile of many young people, of all generations, that the only reality they knew was to live in a permanent crisis. And today, years ago that are not news, I would like to recall that in 2009, at the beginning of the crisis, there were 35,000 young people living abroad, and that this figure has already doubled and there are more than 76,000 young people living outside Catalonia, because it denied the future and the possibility of living in decent conditions in this country. And this is the portrait, the exile of the whole generation is the best portrait, surely, of a generation that was denied the right to live with dignity in this country. And that's why, now that we're on the threshold of the second crisis for this generation, we appreciate this ILP, because we have an obligation to demand that the government never pay back the cutbacks to the youth of this country. A young woman who has lived for ten years sentenced not only to leave the university in order to not be able to finance it, but to not be able to emancipate herself from home until thirty years – the worst country, practically, of the European Union, in access to emancipation – or to live off precarious jobs resulting from the deregulation of the labor market in this country. The public universities have suffered, throughout this decade, the focus of retailing at many levels; obviously, the one that has paid students and their families from the increase in taxes, that it is nothing other than a co-sponsorship of a public service such as the right to education; the one that has suffered from the pool of universities with accumulated retailing up to 30_per_cent, a third part in two years, and those that have also suffered – and today we want to mention – the workers of the public universities of this country, the teaching staff, associate, researcher... of this country; a country where the university professor has become a precarious worker who does not persecute the classes of this country, and many other universities that are not charged without my profession. And the result is what it is: the universities have been wanting for years the permanent economic failure of the public university system in this country and, therefore, today, that we face a future of uncertainty, more than ever we need to open the debate to rethink the system of knowledge and the system of universities and public education in this country. And where are we now? It is true that, on the basis of assumptions, the government has already approved the reduction of taxes on the 30_per_cent grade and master price. And it is a first step that, obviously, we feel particularly proud of it, mainly because it reverses two years of abuse, of abusive taxes to access the public university of this country; and that we particularly rejoice that this September, when many families already have many uncertainties about their future, at least, the tax drop can allay these uncertainties. In many ways, at the beginning of the course you see, in many ways, in the economic security and economic support of families, and at least we are glad that this September there is one that weighs a little less. This was a good agreement for Catalonia, and I think it was a necessary agreement for the students and students of this country. But it can't be the deal. And we know where we're coming from, we know where we are, but we also need to know where we want to go, and we need to be able to say it. And our proposal – and it will always be our horizon – is that public universities are included in the welfare system of this country and are a universal right not subtly co-sponsored through taxes. Why many times, especially these last months through Nissan's lockdown, have we discussed much in this parliament: what does it produce we want? We want a Catalonia that produces the added value, that has a specialized industry, that places for knowledge as a motor of the future, and we do not want a precarious society that condemns, generation to generation, the best young, the students, the most workers of this country to serve coffee to Sitges, Cambrils, London or Berlin, but has a production model at the height of our expectations. So this model is not possible expelling students from public universities any more than ever. And it's not possible to expel investigators from public universities any more than a year ago. And what they've done these years is turn Catalonia into a European periphery for research, development and innovation. A 13_percent search detail, an innovation policy that is an absolute failure and that has led us to compete with the north and the centre of Europe as with industrial territories to compete with the European periphery in only two years. And so, today, we insist that our horizon is that the public university is fully included in the welfare system and, therefore, is a universal right, and the public university is an engine of knowledge and equality in our country. It is true that there has been a tax drop, but we want to claim the need for this ILP, the need to approve for it what this ILP says, basically for two reasons, because we understand that access to a fundamental right such as education cannot be equal to the eternal presuppositional negotiation ever again, but they need to shield it for the law; and because we also need to keep the debate open in this country about which university model we want and which university access guarantee we want to build for young people and not so young in this country. And so, in this legislative process, we will work on different aspects that we hope we can work with all parliamentary groups and ILP promoters, which we believe are necessary. One that for us is fundamental: we must have a horizon to end co-opting in the public universities of this country. Someone's yearning, some of which they have had during these years, to replicate to public universities a model that no longer works in primary education and secondary education and that is an anomaly throughout Europe, that is to introduce co-sponsorship into public education in this country in order to separate it economically, not only do we not want to export it to the university, but we consider that during the decade that we have to work to reverse it to all the educational levels in this country. Other things that we consider to be important, it is obvious that the curriculum structure of this country has changed and that the masters, beyond the three plus two or the four plus one, are taking over as the central element in the teaching itinerary. And, therefore, it is necessary to shield by law that a student, until the university is free, pays the same for a teaching itinerary that encloses degrees and masters, and that we do not convert the masters into a new economic segregation factor as we lower the prices of the degrees. And then we have punctual elements that we consider to work. It is not decent that, in a country, a family that has become a victim of male violence, at the administration of universities tell him to bring the sentence and, if the sentence for maltreatment is five years, say: "No, no. You've had a five-year tuition cut, and if they've passed, you don't have it. Or it's not normal that single-parent families don't, like at least, consider it a huge family. And these aspects we have to work on. And I'm done, but I'd like to say something that has something to do with where we're coming from and where we want to go. In my stage of study, against the protests for the increase of taxes, they were prosecuted for the government of Felipe Puig twenty-i-seven students, in case it was known as "twenty-i-seven and more. Today, there are thirteen who are being asked...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.9.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.10.0	...more than a hundred years in prison to defend what will surely begin today to be dealt with in this Parliament. Surely, the best response to the repression of student demobilisation is to convert the reduction of taxes into law in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the name of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] Silence, deputies. The debates are a fan of the Faristol. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.12.0	Yeah. With the head here to Parliament and the heart to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Look, what we want to do is a reminder of history, where the rights have been won to go to college. I'll give you a historical example: demonstration at the center of Barcelona, process of culmination of mobilizations demanding the reduction of taxes; manifestation surrounded by police, tranquil·la, without incidents. From that demonstration until the next call for a vacancy in the university education sector, the police make arrests of students. In the judicial proceedings arising from those arrests, it is seen that there is not even an individualization of the crime, but what is a political character identification and the only one that builds..., is that these students had political affinity and the fact of belonging to a student organization. Now it's possible... and the petition there was 110.5 years in prison for thirteen students. And now it's possible that some Members or Members say, "That, when did it happen? To the transition? In '86-87, with the Cojo Manteca squeaking for weeks? No, that passed 2017 – also historical – with a report from the Squadron Mosses and with a reality like what we have experienced in the past few years. We, these students, have three speeches. The first, the eternal grace, for which it means fighting because the children and girls of the popular classes can access the university. The second, you'll never walk alone. And the third, even clearer, glory and honor to all your struggles and all your mobilizations, because if we have been able to access some children of workers and workers to the public university is because in a historical period, basically, what is derived after the Transition, there were struggles of masses of student movement. The class trade union movement made a bet for the public university, too, it has to be said, because the political left had concrete proposals; concrete proposals as today brings us the ILP commission, which we are discussing and from which the processing begins. What does the proposal mean? So, mirin, make a very clear account of it. What it meant in 2012 was a bid of 66_per_cent of taxes, which in six courses practically left out a 5_per_cent of students to be able to access the university. And before that, it is the legal way, which allows – certainly, a state law, Article 81.3, apart from b, from the Organic Law of Universities – that can place in all fragments the lowest band to apply public prices. Therefore, a concrete measure. There's something about that and it's on the table. But that's what they'll benefit most from. Mirin, that's a percentage. And so, obviously, the decrease is higher than in a quantitative point of view, for which more pays up to now, and a little..., not so much higher than less pays up to now. But we add more: for us this is the way to go to the university's gratuitousness. And when the CUP raises this, there is one who says: "But the CUP wants to pay the university to those who have a lot of tickets? And we answer them: "Look, for those of you who have a lot of tickets, we have a more progressive and reinforced tribute that allows you to finance public university for everyone, because, if not, what is really going on about concrete? So what happens is very simple, those who have a lot of tickets, go to college anyway, if you have to pay a lot or if you don't have to pay. They've got it guaranteed. But those who have few tickets, if they do not guarantee freeness, have no guarantee of going there, but if they have a guarantee of freeness they can come, roughly, if accompanied by a policy of scholarships this right to access. We did not want to end without an absolute recognition of the commission, in a very special way to the student movement and in concrete way to the Union of Students of the Catalan Countries. And to recover another historical record, the master master, Manuel Sacristán, who, analyzing – in a text that should read all the deputies and deputies – the university, what he says to us is that it cannot be an institution that you do is to reproduce the class division of the work. And, therefore, what do you think only of the reproduction of elites and technicians? And we, like CUP - Constituent Creed, make another addition and it's our bet for a free university, but that sometimes also has the centrality, have the engine, in teaching and in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Everything indicates that, presumably, we are in the final leg of the legislature. And, in terms of university fees, the government does so as in so many other subjects: dragging the feet. Good because it forces the opposition to leave them in minority or otherwise under pressure, as in the case of the present proposal of law, which is the result of popular legislative initiative. In any case, never voluntarily. The purpose of this ILP is to amend the Llei d'universitats de Cataluña to introduce into this law that the public price of university education will be fixed by decree of the Department of Presidency, and will be located within the lower half of the fork of the prices provided for in the Organic Law of Universities. In this sense, we can only congratulate the promoters of the ILP, whose aim was to ensure that the rates in university education in Catalonia are placed in the Spanish national average. And to do so, moreover, by law. And it is that, as you well know, in 2012, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, university fees increased by 66_per_cent, a measure that was framed in the policy of adjustments to reduce the generality's deficit and indebtedness. By the way, Mrs Romero, the PP did not support those budgets; it abstained. And he abstained because he remembers how you left the public accounts behind the nefarious tripartite of Catalonia. Just to remember, too, a little history. However, and despite triggering years of economic growth since 2014 and 2015, this rise has never been reduced. And I insist, despite having left behind the economic crisis of 2008 more than five years ago. And it has not been until the budgets of this year 2020 that university fees have been reduced by 30_per_cent. Which seems to have been a cause for rejoicing for the government because it says they've done it. Well, "complimentary, I would say yes, that they have fulfilled, but they have fulfilled late and rather little. « Late because since 2016 Parliament has approved several times the reduction of university fees. We would say that the Government has only taken four years to fulfil the mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia. Hurry, what is said hurry, have not been given too much. And besides late, they've done little. They have reduced the rates by 30_per_cent, but considering that the increase of 2012 was 66_per_cent, with what it took to reduce the rates, the Government might well have been much more generous if they had had a minimum of sensitivity towards the university level, and more considering the economic asphyxiation to which they have submitted to Catalan public universities in recent times. In fact, it was not a free or capricious act that last year the rectors signed a manifesto demanding a plan for the public university with funding of 100_million_de_euro. A plan that included such elementary issues as building maintenance, reducing job insecurity, or investing more in research. A plan which, in short, was aimed at reversing, or partially reversing, the difficult situation of the Catalan public university. And that, in the end, only by pressure from both the university community and the opposition political parties, the Government has been forced to include these 100_million_euros in this year's budgets. As you can see, once again, dragging your feet. Today we are debating this bill, the basic objective of which is what Parliament mandated four years ago, a period in which the Government has shown no interest in carrying out this reduction of fees. A proposal for a law that now reaches the plenary to make the debate in its entirety and does so without amendments from any group in its entirety, and will therefore continue its parliamentary procedure. That's right, whatever the legislature's going on. Although the most striking thing is that the bill arrives without amendments by the groups that support the Government. Not because you agree with the proposal of law, because if you were already you could have done it without the need of this ILP. It comes without amendments because they know that, presumably, we are at the end of the parliamentary term and they do not want to take on the wear and tear of opposing it at the moment. If they were really in favour of the regulation called for by the ILP, it was a long time ago that the Government could have introduced a single-reading bill, but the objective of this ILP was not and is not really its priority. Because it seems, I insist, that we are already in the discount time of this legislature, and it is clear that the Government and the parliamentary groups that support it transit more in the posture and political pyrotechnics than in the firm will to solve the many problems that the university world has: from reducing the bestial increase in rates approved now eight years, to passing through the serious underfunding that the Catalan public university suffers with the last governments of the Generalitat. In short, unfortunately and allegedly, it will also not be the Government that will put an end to any of the serious problems facing the Catalan public university. And, in that sense, it will also have been a lost legislature for the university community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.16.0	Thank you, President. I'm starting, as all groups have done, thanking the support that... or giving support to this promoter group, this ILP. Above all, to put us on the table for this debate. Not only in the sustained student mobilization that has taken place over the years, but also in bringing to the institutions those proposals that must be helped – and I take the word that I gave to the principle – to the armoring of these university priests. It was over, some of the Members who preceded me, saying that Esquerra or the groups that we support the government, what they would give back to this initiative would be what lasts for the legislature. Obviously, he's wrong. And it doesn't escape, the people of the promoter, who don't decline, despite the fall of the legislature. But he added: « Esquerra does not want to take on the wear of opposing a measure like this. Miri, Esquerra isn't just that I don't want to take on any wear, but Esquerra, from the beginning, has been at the side of this ILP. And especially the Young Republic also, with the involvement in collecting signatures. But it's more, if we're in this plenary today debating this, it's because the fourth secretary of the Bureau and the deputy of the Young Republic proposed to the Bureau that this plenary is discussing this. So, it's not just not that we don't want the opposition, we're the ones that we've done, and all the groups have given support, that this is debated today. [[Some applause.]] We said that in 2012 Convergence subtended to austerity policy, to retail policy. And Mrs. Romero was telling a story, as she always does, leaving a part for the path. And it's that Esquerra, at that time, the armor he did to give support to that government was the approval of five commissions. One of them, which was to ensure that universities and research functioned. And this allowed, at the very least, two things: to approve a model of progressivity, which at that time was drawn as the theoretical model that had to be avoided that you did not stay away from the people who did not have resources, so that who had the most, the most paid; but, moreover, also agreed, and with the student representation that negotiated it at that time, that the AGAUR studied on a case-by-case basis each situation and that it began to create the scholarships for vulnerable situations or for survivable situations that have been held by all and each of the universities. It's true that the whole theoretical model didn't develop with all the design that was originally intended and that this social elevator that we're talking about at the university..., that hasn't changed, there's still a third of the students, one of every three students who go to the university from parents who haven't studied at the university. Therefore, there follows a social elevator and this percentage did not vary practically from 2011 to 2018. But we have to go to the scene of the problem, and it is that there is a gap between those who are born in wealthy families, who have a 70, 80_percent chance of going to college, and those who come from more precarious families, who have a 30, 40_percent chance of going there. Therefore, while the rich people have twice as many chances of going to college, we have a problem that is not just about public prices, but about the cost of opportunity, about the cost of going to university, of travel, of dinars, of studying and living, or of not being able to work at any time. And it's also this initial barrier that's the one that hasn't been able to solve all the fairies, that's the initial reversal that you have to do and don't know..., the uncertainty of not knowing how long you'll have or won't have the scholarship. The ILP puts us on the table with a proposal to lower it, from the 25_per_cent that was paid up to the academic course..., until the year passed, to 15, 20_per_cent. This was between €33 million and €67 million. And that the government, with the approval of the presuppositions of 2020 and with the leadership of Vice President Aragonès in the negotiations with the group of the commons, has made that this... There is already a drop of 30_per_cent, therefore, from 25_per_cent of the cost to 17,5_per_cent of the cost with an economic impact of approximately 48_million euros and that, moreover, continues to ensure that trams 1 and 2, those people who have fewer resources, continue to have the option of applying for a Equity scholarship to make it more progressive. But, on the road to all this, above the "Most progressive government of history in Spain", this government that, as the honourable Member has said, eliminates the forks that still remind us of Mr. Wert and imposes, to all the autonomous communities, the same price, despite knowing that in Spain all the communities have different realities. But, look, it's that until and until here we can agree and then begin to discuss whether this measure of downsizing of your prices has made it 100_million euros, which the rectors demanded. Two-hundred_million euros because they didn't only want to lower prices and they also wanted to have an investment for the university system and, therefore, we went in to discuss whether there were enough 100 or 200 or 300. No, no, but they left us the discussion, you, and we can, that I do not forget, at zero, that it is the money that has remained. Zero. You want everyone to lower their prices and put in zero euros because that's what's going on. So who is responsible for their aesthetic measures? About college, which has to be done with less funding. And that's what the government of Catalonia avoided. Before you approved of any aesthetic measure, you already dropped a 30_per_cent. You said: "Catalunya will be the one who will be the most to lower. Lying, again, because it had already dropped a 30_per_cent. Therefore, its measure, practically, is only attributed to the community of Madrid. But it's that, besides, it wasn't just 30 percent lower, but that, besides, the Government of the Generality had guaranteed that there would be this public funding of difference for universities, which is the most important part. We can't make students compete against universities. This has to be a shared struggle to keep moving forward. And this year 2020 has also been the year of the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge. It is true that the whole situation of the Covid did not have the size it needed to have, but at the very least three of the proposals to which it came with the support of the parliamentary groups, the students, the rectors, the social councils, and all the research centres. This had to be followed, to reduce the prices – and more so, Esquerra, added, to tend towards gratuity – as some of the groups already said, to compensate for this financing that they reduce with the reduction of taxes, but also to review the whole model of scholarships to fund. It won't do any good if we lower taxes by 30 percent, but we still have the help we have. Catalonia has to double these aids – and so the national pact has to go backwards – but it also has to speed up the wage scholarships for the opportunity cost it has going to university. It does not have to assess all this impact and it has to have these special measures for situations that have occurred and in Spain, once again, it is working, that it is the transfer of the scholarships that the Constitutional Court has told us on repeated occasions, so to see if this government is so progressive that it is finally effective. And the third element that draws this National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge for the Future, and which is very important, is that we address the issue of experimentation. You haven't felt that we have some students who are deciding to study medicine or study history because of the cost of the first versus second. Students must be able to choose what they want for their vocation and not have a barrier depending on which students are more cars or more cheats, just like the masters. And I end with this reminder of some of the repeated votes in Parliament. So, again, this little part of the story that you wanted to draw, we'd expand a little focus to see it all. When it comes to voting on motions for resolutions, when it comes to voting on motions that say that taxes are to be lowered, but it is neither said nor said where the money is being raised, nor that it is mandatory to do so, here we can find the PSOE and the rest of Ciutadans and parliamentary groups that today have come out of these votes that they have made. When it comes to voting to make things happen, only Esquerra, Juntes per Catalunya and the support of the commons to approve the assumptions are the ones that made it happen. And that, Mrs Romero, I understand that you don't like it, but the truth is that you, here, have a lot of words, a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot to say, a lot to say, a lot to vote when it doesn't work to make things work, but at the time of the truth, which will make students who go to university pay a 30_per_cent less than they are Republican Left, together for Catalonia and the vote of the commons to the assumptions. And that's the reality. And you were doing aesthetic measures and making proposals, but the reality is that, in September, the drop of 30_per_cent will be with the leadership of Vice President Aragonès. And obviously for the road, there were years to do it, and that proposal didn't come out of one day for another. And that is why the insistence of the ILP and the basic essence in the modification that we will obviously have to make of the joint for the changes that have been made, is this armoring of the priests, which seems essential to us, and we will work on that. Because the difference between the outcome of the previous crisis and this has to be the bet for the young, it has to be transformative policies and it has to be shielding the basic and public rights. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Lluís Font. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.18.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. I would like to begin my intervention with a record of Members of the Bureau of Parliament who are now appearing before the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia for a few events that have taken place since the sovereignty of our people, and in particular to mention the friend Lluís Guinó. Secondly, I would like to point out that the team of the Secretary of Universities cannot be here today because the measures around the Covid have made their presence impossible, but I am very aware that they are following with great interest the debate that is now taking place in us. I'd like to thank the promoters of the ILP for the hard work they've done. It is an expression of the popular initiative, of this entrepreneurial character that our country has, of this network of institutions that go for the programmatic proposals that have a model of society and that make it possible. I think a country that has this vertebrate is a country that has a future. I would also like to thank them because it is the opportunity to talk about talent and fairness, which are two essential themes in today's Catalonia configuration and tomorrow. It is true that in the background it is necessary to create educational opportunities from early childhood and beyond life, for all people. Ours is not a country that has natural riches, but has the talent of its people, and we need to create the conditions of possibility to be able to exploit it, to the benefit of one, of its personal project, but with collective benefits. And here the university has a central role, not just to the young people who finish high school and are willing to enroll there, but as an up-to-date tool, to get up to date, to open up new horizons for people of various ages and the length of their lives. That's all we can talk about in this debate process that starts today. And in this introductory character he also mentioned that the strict wording of the ILP has been out of date for the normal changes, but we wanted to appreciate the opportunity to start this debate, with the confidence that at the length of the process we could introduce the changes that remain. Going into the matter, I believe that the phone book is to deploy public policies that are effective, that implement the great principles. If it's not from that perspective, it's all in rhetoric. Professor Sacristán was quoted before... – [[Addressing the Bureau]] I don't think time is accounted for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.19.0	It's true, it was stopped. Excuse me, Congressman. You're doing it and we're doing it, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.20.0	Well, no, I promise not to exhaust all the time. Professor Sacristán has been quoted as an expert in logic; I think he would appreciate very much an approach to the problem, to the fact, from proven data, certainly, that he allows a vision, a perspective of reality. It is to say, to make good analysis, to implement appropriate policies that face the promotion of talent and to compensate inequalities with a principle of equity... This value of equity for me is very important, because it contains equal opportunities, it is to say, this ambition of equality but adapted to the reality of each individual, giving the opportunities that each one needs and claims at every moment of life. Well, to make these policies and make them effective, we have to start with a good analysis. I'll just put down two examples of data that may not have just been quite correct. There is a craving that says that during these years, from 2011-2012 to 18-19, there has been a reduction in income at the university of people of different years. False – false – in absolute names and percentages. In absolute terms we have passed, 2011-2012, from 16,458 to 19,043 to the public university with preus publiques, counting the private and counting the affiliated centers; there has been an increment of 2,500. If we compare it to the population of divided years..., why compare it to the population in gene..., it is to say, compare the access of people who do not have divided years with the population of divided years is barring people with trees. If we compare the access of people who divide years with the people who divide years, we have gone from 24 to 24.5. This does not leave any transcendence to the problem – then I will talk about it – but I would like them to be precise in these data. It is also sometimes said that the public university assembly has lost students. True, he hasn't lost a thousand; but he's also sure that the average length of high school, which in theory is four years, has gone from 5.8 years to 4.7 years. Therefore, this reduction in part is due to the fact that there have been more in the teaching and learning process that have reduced the average time of a student's state in college to a degree. It's not the quantity, it's the quality, it's the quality that determines what we're dealing with. I don't want to stretch out, but I think we'll have to be very precise with the data we handle to make the analysis and make the right decisions. Therefore, it is not certain that there was less access than there was to public university. And how could this happen in a price increase context? So because this increase has not been linear for everyone, but there have been some scholarships, some cuts, that have made it possible for the lower income streams to have compensatory measures that can compensate for it. And someone will say, "So, Lluís, are you denying the problem? No, the problem was, and there is: access to university is not fair, there are socio-economic sectors that are clearly damaged. But we have to face this problem from a holistic view. For example, Congressman David Bertran earlier pointed out a certain theme, which is early school leaving. One of the elements of the problem is that there are students who are not on condition of enrolling in college. But not because there is a price or a barrier to the same university – it seems to me that it refers to this – but because they have not completed their secondary studies before, or left them to myths, and so, in part, enter this collection with a bad name, neither, etc. And this is a problem, that of early school leaving, very serious. We have a point of escape that means that if this is the talent society, these people can't stick to the standard mechanisms to tell talent. What do I mean by that? Not to expel responsibilities, but to say that there must be a global and holistic treatment of the subject, that incorporates the whole process of education to the length of life, that incorporates measures of housing type, social type, etc. So, is that the problem? Yeah. Has the problem increased during these years of price increase? No, no, You can say what you want, but objectively it hasn't increased. Is this getting serious about the problem? No, no, We have to face him. But we're still serious, we're starting from the ground up, we're going to face it by making policies that really touch what's to be touched. So, what should be done? Consolidating and expanding the policy of scholarships and aid by increasing wage scholarships and making it possible for the economic issue not to be a barrier or obliging desertion, which is another phenomenon we have: people who register and leave without culminating... Secondly, we need to make it possible for the five basic training years to be at the same price; therefore, we need to equip the prices of the degree and the master. And, therefore, the debate about whether it's four plus or three plus is missing: Catalonia has a pack of five years that everything goes to the same price. And, thirdly, what we have to do is that the degrees, as Congresswoman Gemma Espigares pointed out, and someone else has referred to them, the prices of the degrees are not differentiated and, therefore, they all cost the same, and we take as reference the most cheats. If we implement these measures, you add to this reduction of 30_per_cent, and we have to do it progressively, in a hypothetical scene in the year 22-23 the price of the credit to Catalonia would be divided by euros, adding the impact of 30_per_cent more the equipping of all degrees to that which is most cheated. That's already sitting at the fork where we want it to be. We have to find the way that the realization of this ILP and everything that accompanies it, therefore, is translated into objective facts that allow a bet like this. The credit would mean that a career, a degree, a course of a degree of sixty credits would be over one thousand dollars, one thousand dollars, well different from the situation we have now. And it wouldn't just be a reduction, but we would help promote the equity of the joint. Well, then, thank you for this reflection, thank you for forcing us all to think about these questions, and it seems to me that this is such an important issue that it is worth it that we devote a good part of our energies to it. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, say'm, Mrs Romero, ask me the word? [[Alice Romero Llano intervenes without using the microphone.]] Say... hope's... [[Pause.]] Now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.22.0	No, I've been informed about the Business and Knowledge Council... the Councilwoman is at the Executive Council, I said that, but they didn't let me come, to see any of the members of the department, and that's why they're not there. As I like to be fair and have made some criticism of this, I wanted to apologize, because they're not there, they're definitely following it for the networks or at the virtual level, and so I wanted to apologize, because, therefore, they're doing their job. The Covid couldn't be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In fact – said Mr Font –, at the same time as the measures that we are required to take at these times, not only the members of the Government, but also the same committee that is responsible for the ILP, so they have seen their opportunity to follow the debate on the spot in the Chamber restricted. So, I apologize and understand, too, in this sense. Thank you, Members. The debate is over, as no papers have been presented to the full on this proposal, the legislative initiative can continue its processing. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. [[Report and conclusions of the Autonomous Work Study Commission]] [[260-00001/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the report's debate and the conclusions of the Autonomous Work Study Commission. In accordance with Rule 66.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, this committee of study has approved a report and some conclusions which have been published to the Butlletí Oficial del Parlament de Catalunya. In the first place, the chairman of the committee will intervene to present them. It has the word, therefore, in this turn, the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.24.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, very good morning. Self-employed workers represent 21_percent of the working population of Catalonia, 68_percent of whom are physical persons. It is a collection that applies more than 500,000 people. These figures show the size of the sector in the economy and the generation of employment in Catalonia, mostly self-employment. But this diverse and plural collection suffers from structural fables that have been made worse by the eruption of the Covid-19. It is a non-risk-free sector, since when dealing with micro-enterprises, created often from their own wealth and without great external support, they are weak figures for both the need for knowledge beyond the relevant business sector, as well as for those involved in business and the difficulty in accessing foreign financial resources. While the committee's work has ended before the state of alarm, the conclusions are, frankly, that they are perfectly valid. The Covid, in any case, has done nothing more than close the need to undertake certain reforms. The last parliamentary term was constituted in Parliament by the Commission for the Study of the Emprendoria and the Autonomes, but his work fell by the end of the parliamentary term. That's why one of the objectives of this committee was to be able to finish the job, which we're doing today. And this is possible thanks to the work of all the deputies who have formed part of the committee, starting for the members of the Bureau, José María Cano and Jordi Munell, and continuing for the deputies and deputies who have not formed in total or in part: Laura Vílchez and Martí Pachamé, of Ciutadans ; Eusebi Campdepadrós, of Junts per Catalunya ; Jordi Albert, Eva Baró and Aurora Carbonell, for the Republican Group ; Pol Gilbert and Eva Granados, of the Socialists Group and Units to Advance ; Jessica Albiach and Yolanda López, of Catalonia in Comú Podemos ; Vidal Aragonés, of the Candidature of Popular Unity, and Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Party. To all I want to thank the work done, and especially the climate of joint work and the willingness of agreement and compromise that has presided over the development of all the sessions of the committee. I also want to make a special point and a thank you to the late Anna Casas, the Linguistic Advisor Núria Lucena, and the managers Gloria Gómez and Frederic Sole, essential because everything worked properly and we could complete the terms that we had set ourselves. It was at the July 4th session of the 18th plenary session that Parliament approved the resolution that created this commission. Between October 11th and September 20th of the 19th we will hold a total of nine sessions, in which thirty appearances with representation of the Government of the Generality, social agents, academic world and experts are substantial. Their contributions have been instrumental in getting to know the sector more deeply and basing the conclusions and recommendations document. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It's over, President. The work of the legislature ends today, but this is only a point and then, because today the task of the execution begins. We hope that the Government will take the initiative, agree on the best that they propose in the spheres of their competence and present to Parliament the legislative initiatives that are recommended in the report. I'm sure the Catalan self-employment sector will benefit from it, and with it the country's joint venture. Many thanks, Mr President, Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is the turn of the different parliamentary groups, for seven minutes the groups and five subgroups, as it was established and approved by the Board of Spokespersons. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.26.0	President... MPs, MPs, our group will support almost the totality of the conclusions of the present report of the Autonomous Work Study Commission. From October 2018 until December 2019, we have had the opportunity to meet practically all the agents, associations, and many experts linked to the world of the self-employed. I have to say that the contributions of all the participants have been very enriching and have allowed a clear and precise picture of who the situation is and who are the most urgent needs of the sector, thanks to everyone. A series of conclusions have been drawn which I believe can be said to have broad consensus between the different political groups that we have formed on this study committee. What were the main concerns and demands of the sector up to the date of the report, and I think that this, in other situations, could have a relative import, in this case is a determining factor. The escalate of the Covid-19 pandemic and its health effects, first, economic and social afterward, incorporates one, hopefully temporary, parentheses in the conclusions reached. Many of them remain in force, I will not deny it, but the order of priorities has changed substantially. The study, by force, by structure, does not make a prelude, an order of which are the most urgent measures, of which are the measures to be taken in short, medium or long term. It is a report of measures of conclusions obtained from the reflections of people linked in one way or another to the sector and, therefore, it corresponds more to a list sorted by concepts than to an emergency. And unfortunately now we have urgency, and we have a lot of urgency. The pandemic is affecting all economic sectors, but the more virulence is being detected is in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, in self-employed workers. The report highlights important elements to understand this situation. It is said, in the report's conclusions, that the sector is not risk-free, since, in dealing with micro-enterprises often created with their own assets and without great external support, they are weak figures both because of the need for knowledge beyond the business sector, as they are now inherent in business, and because of the difficulty of accessing foreign financial resources. Now we find ourselves in a completely different context from what existed at the time of writing this report, it is true, and we understand that we could believe that it was disconnected and anachronistic. But we can also see that the outcome of this commission is a good opportunity to take advantage of the conclusions obtained because the government acts, leaders, laws, organizations..., which governments, in short. Unfortunately, this government and the previous ones have been more concerned about other issues. The management of resources, the day-to-day management, the governance based on a strategy of the future that was valid throughout the city, has never been among the objectives of this Government or of the previous ones. For the past two years, it has been governed by a part of the community, and here all those who have supported these governments are responsible for the right and the left. Now we see ourselves as an enmigré of a pandemic, an enmigré of a health, economic and social emergence as generations have not seen, the priorities are others; smoke curtains to cover the absence of management, leadership, responsibility. We're tired of always looking for bad-paying excuses: always the fault has another, always there is someone who has made it worse, always looking for benchmarking. When will they assume their responsibilities? When will you assume that a lot of people are painted because of you? When? We have always defended that there is no one who is free to make a mistake, everyone is mistaken. But you don't want to make a mistake. You must know that no mistake has progressed, and you do not agree to have ever made a mistake. It's wrong 2017 and we're still paying for the effects of his mistake, with a society divided and paralyzed. His model is retrograde and conservative. They only struggle to preserve their stamentary privileges. They just want to go back to the 18th century. They're the most reactionary past. A leader must have been the first to do before a crisis like the current one would be to polarize all citizens towards a common goal, ask for differences to be settled, and make all folds clear to acquit and get out as quickly as possible from this atzucac. We have the deep conviction that we'll only get out of it if we all row in the same direction. This crisis is the deepest and most dangerous of all we've faced in the past seventy-five years, and we can't do it divided and faced. That is why we ask the government to make its conclusions on this report. It is a good tool to help solve the main problems in the sector; not all, but the most important. As a result of the pandemic, a number of mechanisms have already been put in place to help the sector, it is true, but they are insufficient, especially if, as is happening, there are new outbreaks of disease throughout Catalonia. It is possible to sign all the national agreements that are common, as they did yesterday, but if there was no political will to complete them they are full paper. They're talking about calling elections to a crisis like the current one. How do they want the citizenry not to think that all this is more of an election pre-campaign? They've done it before and they're doing it now. The document makes a report of measures to be taken, without order of importance. That's why we think it's very important for the government to take these conclusions as immediate mandates to carry out, especially those that refer to finance. In fact, many of the points that have already been incorporated into the motions approved in this chamber so that local authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises have access to valid instruments to finance themselves. Also important at these times are the measures to reduce lateness and to enable second-opportunity mechanisms, now more current than ever. We consider these measures to be priorities, but not exclusive. Other considerations, training or gender equality or security in work, for example, are equally important. And that's why we're also asking for them to be present at the time of lawmaking. The crisis has brought new elements that in the analysis that has been carried out have not been present or have not been with the importance that they have ended up having. For example, work and how the autonomous sector has been affected. Many of them, forced to make continuous journeys to attend to their professional activity, have seen their way of working being modified, and many of them do not have the skills or training to do so in a competitive way. And here we have to help them, so that they can adapt to the new forms of work that are not going to be imposing. Also, why not? , to rethink the micro-enterprise model prevailing in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. The low capitalization and excessive dependence of the CREI mean that, before a crisis like the present, many autonomists cannot maintain their productive activity and have finished closing. We can't afford it, and that's why we need to work to open up our own finance systems in self-employment and businesses, to make the sector's joint venture more robust and resilient at the time of crisis. But all this happens because the government governments, because the government leaders, because the government is willing to work towards the common goal: to overcome this crisis; because the government stops thinking about the electoral key and thinks about the welfare of all citizens. But the truth is, I see what's going on the last few days, we're very skeptical of respect. At all events, we hope that the government will act responsibly, that it will assume its responsibility, that it will put the chemical dreams back together, and that it will, for the sake of everyone, manage the outcome of this evil crisis. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Pol Gibert has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.28.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. When the task of a commission such as this was completed, the first thing to do is to make thanks, thanks to a lot of people, in this case. Thank you, first of all, for the people of the house, as the president has already done, and he also wanted to add the managers, the cast and the technical people who accompany us in all this work on the committee. Thanks also to all the people who came to compare, because the basic work of our conclusions is, stop listening to a lot and a lot of people talking about self, being able to see what we have to do in this country to try to help them as much as possible, and I wanted to convey my grace, especially now that they are patenting, and strength. And, of course, thanks also to the different parliamentary groups, which have managed to work out a document of conclusions that I think I can move forward that will have a certain consensus in this House of Parliament. Obviously, the President said, the conclusions we are bringing here today are not what we expected at a time of crisis as we are living. The publication of the conclusions is of the 17th generation; obviously no one knew what was about to come to this country yet. And it may seem at some point, these conclusions, which are out of place, are theoretical or, obviously, are very light, for which they are currently hanging in the world of autonomies. But Parliament also has a duty to think about long terms, to think about foundations, and with these conclusions we also lay the groundwork for the government to act on many aspects that affect the world of self-government. But it's true that if we look at how the autonomes are today– and I think we can't talk about this sector without saying how they're patenting at these times–, we see that 50_percent of Catalan autonomes– 50_per_cent – are sticking to the extraordinary performance of ceasing activity; 50_per_cent of the autonomes of this country are not working. Moreover, we have had some good news later, that it is that June has increased the affiliation of autonomes and, therefore, we have seen how it looked like there was some light at the end of the road, basically facing the inn and the summer season, that obviously, therefore, generates a greater increase in activity, but with the latest news we are also all about how it will affect the world of autonomes as well. What we have seen is that this pandemic has increased the trends that there were foundations, the problems that there were foundations in the world of local people, and we all know them: very precarious people who choose to be autonomous to find a job, a job that is more precarious even when you are employed. We have seen with the riders or distributors a clear example of this work of autonomes, of false autonomes; we have seen how they were getting prices down from a crisis; we have seen how they were going to cover up drugs, too, as distributors; in short, we have seen a much more precarious sector. And if we're talking about autonomes, we've also been talking about this new phenomenon – not so new – that it's the false autonomes, as he said before. If we look at the data, more than a million autonomous people in the Spanish State are against their will; they want to be waged and cannot, and they choose a form of precariousness, in this case, because it is not a chosen form of work. The ILO collected in a recent report that the decline in labour yields in the bulk of gross domestic product was largely the decrease in entry from the local authorities. The nine forms of work are hardly eroding the purchasing power of the autonomes and, therefore, also the purchasing power of our citizens. If we refer to what the committee has been able to agree to, I would like to do..., or mention, or read, including, a sentence that is in the second paragraph of the conclusions that we are discussing today, and I think it is important to reflect on whether it is now or not, because it seems to me that it is the classic definition of "autonomousness and that we should put into question. And he says: "Autonomousness is the alternative to self-employment, which takes advantage of the ability of the worker himself to exercise a business pocket for good. This is the classic definition of an autonome. And now I ask: are there a lot of people that we know all the folds that are doing this? No, no, He's doing something else to be autonomous. And we also need to consider when we make these conclusions today. Obviously, it has also been said by the Ciutadans spokesman that the large part of the conclusions that are drawn in this document will improve the financing. It's the big problem of self-government before the Covid, at least. Seven of the measures we are taking to vote on today go to finance, which is the big problem we have. And here we also have the margin to act from our competitions. One issue that was in store and which is very important is that the lower limit that the Catalan Institute of Finance urges is too high with the autonomes; it is 25,000_euros, and they cannot choose it. That's a theme that's in our grasp to be able to, too, solve. There are fears that, when the conclusions were drawn, so we went from points to points and that they now have a very important role: the whole subject of the second opportunity, the whole subject of performance for cessation of activities, which has taken on an importance that we could not even think about. And there are fears that they were important and that they still do not take more relevancy: the increase of the inspection of work. It is a subject that this Parliament has not spoken much; we do not need to continue talking, because we have difficult problems, too, of companies, citizens and citizens who are patenting this discrimination in their daily work place. And a topic that was also mentioned in the conclusions and that I want to put in full in this intervention is the best in the field of occupational risk prevention. If there's a theme hanging in the usual autonomies, nowadays, with an epidemic on the way, it's a theme that takes on much more relevancy and we can't get over it. We cannot have people who are not trained in preventing occupational risks working daily in contact with the client and on the street, with a surrounding epidemic. A theme that has also taken on a lot of importance and is being successfully implemented in some municipalities is the theme of the Single Business Window, the FUE. It is a theme that has worked well in many municipalities and that we should start implementing as much as possible. And let me just end up where I started. The autonomies who are listening to us today from this hemisphere might think that Parliament is in another world today, that it is talking about conclusions that obviously lie far beyond what would be needed today for the autonomy that is experiencing the crisis. I'm sure that's the way it is. But we also have to think that this Parliament today is laying the groundwork for the government to take them, exploit them and carry them much farther away, if it wants to. He will have the support of our parliamentary group to do so, and we hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.30.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning to all of you. I would like to begin by thanking all the members of the Commission for the Autonom Work, from the President, the Members, the Members, the technicians of Parliament, the parliamentary groups and the lawyer, the work and the talent and the good tone of the committee. Today we present some conclusions that, being honest, we all know that having presented itself before the Covid-19 exploded, a review and expansion of them are necessary. The Covid-19 has marked one before and one after in our lives, as well as in the world of work. Perhaps today we should add some other appearance or repeat some in order to be able to deal with some of the changes that the autonomous and autonomous have undergone before the Covid-19. That is why I want to appeal to all the parliamentary groups to find a formula in which we can work on a review of these conclusions, so that we can pick up the situation of the autonomous and autonomous before the Covid-19, because it is our task to make a continuous exercise of approaches and reflections in order to better respond to the needs of citizens at all times, and also to the autonomous. Catalonia has around 544,000 self-employed persons, which represents 16.44_per_cent of the total number of social security members in Catalonia. The fact is that the biggest increase in self-employment has been due to the economic crisis that began in 2008, especially among young people, where one_of_every_four self-employment young people ensures that they have been forced by companies to become self-employment. It is true that many people have voluntarily registered as self-employed in social security, many people have opted for self-employment and entrepreneurship. But it is also true that some companies have fraudulently used self-employment mechanisms as a means of reducing costs and avoiding the link between work and work, which has had serious consequences. We are talking, for example, about some very specific cases, such as the four hundred self-employed fakes that CEPSA had in Catalonia, the six hundred self-employed fakes that Guissona Food Corporation had, the almost eight thousand self-employed fakes of the meat industry in Catalonia, among which was the Jorge - Le Porc Gourmet Group, and which have been trade unions, and especially Commissions, who have managed to solve it. And I don't want to fail to mention riders who work as self-employed fakes for companies like Glovo, Deliveroo or Uber Eats, because, among other issues, they are not self-employed when the revenues obtained continuously come from a single employer client. It is more necessary than ever to reflect on an optimal model of occupation adapted to the new needs, which guarantees safety and labour rights. We are proud that the Minister of Labour, Yolanda Díaz, has begun the processing of a new law to regulate the work of so-called "false self-employed" and to be able to guarantee the protection of these workers, against the model of Fatima Báñez. Yolanda Díaz's work model is the difference between having a PP or United Podemos Labour Minister. But it also goes through a strong labour inspection, and this is where the Government has the power to pursue this fraudulent formula that some companies use to extract revenue and have fewer obligations to workers. But it requires strengthening labour inspection and, above all, to prevent, as in the 2008 crisis, many companies from trying to have fraudulent profits through this figure. Here, again, a Labour Minister like Yolanda Díaz or a Labour Counsellor like Chakir El Homrani, who does not dare with labour inspections in the agri-food sector. The self-employed are not a homogeneous sector, and therefore, in relation to this diversity, it is also necessary to address..., in relation to contributions from self-employed workers from the same perspective. In other words, it is necessary to address better coverage and fairer quotas for self-employed people, a system of contribution for real income on the basis of tax information, which entails greater social protection in the event of unemployment, sickness or retirement and which avoids that self-employed people who have less income pay excessive quotas, an advance reflected in the government agreement of Podemos and PSOE. We have to assume that digital platforms have come to stay and that that requires a relevant regulation that will require changes, because new forms and organization of work cannot go against the rights of workers, we cannot tolerate that they are platforms of precariousness. Today more than ever it is necessary to improve the funding lines, as well as to reformulate the ICF lines of self-employed for the minimum threshold of these funding lines to the real needs that these workers may have. In addition, it is also essential to establish new ways of financing in order to consolidate self-employment. We must bet on real, not cosmetic, measures, like one of the last of the Government, which only reaches four thousand autonomous, of the 544,000 that exist in Catalonia, and incompatible with the aid of the State, a help from Vice President Aragonès who has generated more holders than autonomous have received it. We need to strengthen some programmes, such as the 'Consolida't' and establish new ones that make a real accompaniment, and it is key to work together with the municipalities and trade union organisations. We will vote in favour of almost all the points, because we believe that this is a first step in advancing the needs of this group of workers, but, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we need to reflect and put new measures for the self-employed and self-employed in the face of the situation of the Covid-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.32.0	Thank you all. President, make reference to the fact that before we were not arguing, because it is curious, because we have very few things in common with the Citizens' Group, practically no – not to say no –, and indeed at that time we were not arguing: we were sharing literature and making him see that Teresa..., or, rather, the Pejoaparte, surely the vision that she would have was that, first of all, Teresa was the daughter of the Catalan bourgeoisie, and that maybe some of us stayed with Maruja. But especially where we asked him was whether he was also if they told you that he fell was a reference to him; for us it is also a reference if they told you that I fell and everything that is back there on the repression of the Francoism in the first years after the revolution and the Civil War. It was just to clarify, because, if not, it would seem, in the session log, that we were discussing each other, and this time we weren't discussing each other. I know it's hard that Mr Bertran isn't here, but we know that his fellow citizens will get him there. To enter into what is the object of the commission, look, first of all, we are before a commission in which this country practically has no competences. And that's what we have to say. The regulation of the autonomous is civil, state; the regulation of the dependent autonomous, state; the regulation of the regime or social security framework, state. And from this point on we can talk about what we want, and we've actually tried to do a good job, too, but it's a question. And that is why, beyond a democratic right, it is also that this candidacy wants the national independence of our country: in order to be able to decide and regulate on this; today we cannot do it. We do have some skills in active employment policies and occupational risk prevention, safety and hygiene that could act on the rules of self-government. But we have to place very well where we do not have skills and, therefore, a part of the work that we can do is covered from the iniciator. This is a country of autonomes and autonomes, historically, but also today. We would talk about 500,000 autonomes and autonomes, with what that means, we see the xifra. We also have to say – and self-criticism – that there is a reference to the conclusions that relates to the working partners and workers of the cooperatives where the rules of self-government are located. That's right, it's a possibility, but with account, because it's an option. Members and members of associated labour cooperatives may hold a framework for the autonomous regime, but we may also hold a framework for the general social security regime, and above all, because it is clear that our social relationship is not regulated either by the Civil Code or by specific rules of self-government, but by specific and concrete rules of cooperatives, which certainly in this case there is a priority application of the Catalan right of cooperation in relation to the Spanish right of cooperation, and a question to a more historical and substantive level. We also thought that it was necessary to make this reference. When we wanted to talk about the autonomes, we also tried to make sure that we had to analyze it with regard to two related figures or two elements that are related and influence it. And we can sum it up at first: the fact of how the figure of the autonome has been sought to unravel and, for another band, that to the autopater, to self-exploit – which is practically all the autonomes and autonomes–, cannot be given the treatment of a company. So, there's this permanent confusion. On the first of the situations, look, the right of the job means, or rather, it means that it is recognized that there is a weak part, that it is recognized that the right has to have a tweet character, that it is also recognized that it can limit the autonomy of the will and individual negotiation and that above all it must be collective bargaining – this was a crime, you can look at the hemerotecs – and therefore go to regulate collectively, as a great class contract, labor relations. This is the essence of what the right of work has historically meant. And it was decisive to understand that there they were crucifying rights. What has happened and why has this process of destabilization been sought? So for a simple matter: because they want to lower costs, for a band; for another band, obviously also, not only work, but contributions, social security box, and third place, also, even tax. According to the situation: that you do not want to give to a self-exploitation, to a autopatron, the condition of an SA or an SL, because this is not its reality. Te una realitat, from a material point of view, absolutely different. And what we don't understand either: the hybrid, that of the dependent autonomous. That's an oxymoron. Either it's autonomous or it's dependent, but the two things can't be and, therefore, another way out. It is also for this reason – and we want to move forward – that we are going to make some abstentions and some vote against in the present conclusions, for a very simple question: we do not need hybrid alternatives. What's work relationship is work relationship and what's self-identified is self-identified. The other is a mechanism to escape from the right. And let's finish with another idea: you can act from the job inspection, and we want to recognize that there have been good performances, but you have to continue with this march. Yes, a state law that means that who has an employment relationship is an employment relationship, or who has notes of an employment relationship is to be recognized as an employment relationship, we don't need it. Let us expect derogations from the counter-reform of work, and let us wait for the Kellys law, which many times you, before, had claimed. We're on hold.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.34.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, comment that you can't assist the government in hearing the conclusions of this study committee... that more are conclusions with a higher degree of unanimity, right? , on the part of all groups and, therefore, I believe that from this point of view, they are positive. Some figures have been said; repeat them: 3,440,000 workers in Catalonia, data from September 2019 – now surely this has changed, unfortunately, a little to the low –, 550,000 autonomes – now they have lost themselves to the wish of the five thousand – and, therefore, the autonomous work represents a 16_percent of the conjunction of the occupied population of Catalonia, of which, of these 550,000, 328,000 are physical people, the rest are social autonomes, and 62,000, who are not few, have workers, that is, they have not only self-occupied, but also have generated more occupation. Why? So precisely why self-employment and self-employment is often an alternative to self-employment and which, more importantly, insists on it, generates occupation either through self-employment or through contracting. But it is also a special rule, it has also been mentioned, seen by some companies as a way to try to reduce costs, with social consequences and with unworkableness of people who supposedly, under this autonomous rule, carry out a job on their own when they are actually in the hands of others. In this committee, I highlight some of the conclusions that we have come to that that seem interesting to us. First, about training aspects; training understood as essential to reduce the risk of frailties of any entrepreneurial or micro-entrepreneurial adventure, because many times they are micro-entrepreneurs, which is generated through autonomies. We have seen, we have found that there is a lot of offer of training courses from the sectoral point of view, but we have only been able to find one from the management point of view, which involves being autonomous, which is the 'Consolidate' programme, and which has some limitations. The limitations are that it went to some autonomies with a certain antiquity, for one thing, there is no training in financial management, there is no training in human resources. And it's also true that there are more petitions to do this course than places available there, which means it's under-doed and therefore it would be worth reviewing. In the area of finance, it was also commented, the Catalan Institute of Finance had – had – two specific lines for the autonomous: the line Avalis, the line Entrepreneurs. The Entrepreneurs line disappeared in September 2018; therefore, there is only one line of financing, which is insufficient. Diem, it is said in the conclusions that, in fact, the topall of 25,000 euros makes it also, this line, greatly stretched from the needs of small autonomies and micro-entrepreneurs. Precisely in relation to this, when the Government approves the law for which liquidity facilities are given to companies on the basis of the Covid crisis, when the topall is set at less than one hundred_ thousand euros, some of us have to say to the Government: "Listen to me, it is with this that they leave out of all these measures the small enterprises and the autonomous ones. Therefore, correct. Administrative simplification is well seen by the autonomes, and the Single Business Window – we talked about last week – but we are missing the most important assembly of Catalonia, the Barcelona Assembly, in this Single Business Window project. And competitions of the country; because the country does have competitions. And the country doesn't just have this legislative chamber, it also has the Congress of Deputies, and there are aspects that can be dealt with in the Congress of Deputies. One thousandth of the Law of the second opportunity, better of the system of quotations, better of the flat rate, with the aim of improving the survival of the workers autonomous. The fraudulent use of the autonomous regime can also be improved through legislation and work inspection, with shared skills. And to express the only discrepancy and which will not bear our support in these conclusions: it is that those autonomies which have yields inferior to the minimum interprofessional wage should be replete with aid. We can understand it in a short time, and we have experienced it with the crisis of the Covid, it is possible that many autonomies have not reached these minimums; but those who permanently have lower incomes than the minimum interprofessional wage..., surely what can be repositioned is the sincere activity, and not just go looking for help. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.36.0	Well, President, thank you. MPs, MPs, Workers and Workers in Parliament, today more than ever I was able to open the water, that I was unable to open it – thank you, Esther. Listen, during all this time in the committee – you have already said most of you – we have been working on the basis of the analysis in depth, from all the comparisons and also from that context that we have also marked and defined in the worksheet. There were some comparisons... I think we had a lot of profit, all the folds and all the folds. And, therefore, they also favored very much that the climate of dialogue and agreement, therefore, was very favorable and, therefore, that finally we also came to conclusions on a majority basis, so there has been unanimity, huh? In the accords. Now, there are some elements where we also generate a certain discrepancy, but discrepancy that in the end are elements of a morning that I think is also resolvable in this sense. And there will certainly be many abstentions in the vote after that. Now, various questions. The first, the competitive marc. The competitive brand, it's obvious we all know who it is, huh? And, therefore, as Mr Vidal Aragonese rightly pointed out, the competitions on the part of the Catalonian executive are very small, the competitions in legislation on the part of this Parliament are zero in practice. Therefore, when we make this Autonomous Work Study Commission, a good part of the petitions and a good part of the demands that are embedded in these conclusions are addressed essentially to the Government of Madrid. And that's why we also persist in the fact that we would like to have this transposition, so that we can also have all the full legislative capacity in this Parliament, huh? And in this transition, logically, you already know what our proposal is, that it is the republic, and, therefore, that we have a republic with full legislative capacity in this Parliament, so that we do not have to ask the Government of Madrid to do one thing or do another. Among other things, because when we go to ask the Government of Madrid he never gets used to listening. Right now, in the most progressive government of the past few years – I don't know if history, but in the last few years – we are still waiting for the removal of labour reforms; in the most progressive government of the past few years, we are still waiting for Article 51 of the Staff Regulations to be repealed or reformulated, on the basis of the later labour reform of 2012, which precisely caused this article to be modified by bringing the prior administrative authority to work. But not just that. We still remember how the last day of April the Government of the State, before the management of the Covid, passed the charge to all the autonomies of the country of its social security tariff, passed the charge. Then they came out quickly to say that there was no problem, that they could then ask for it and it would come back; but they had already asked, already add a new complication at a very complex time, when it was months that had been demanded that there be a halt to social security payments on the part of self-employed workers and workers. It was the last day, when they saw that it was discovered, when the government of the State had to come out, quickly and quickly, to demand that they could return it, that there was no problem because the complaint was made. But just in that last day the payments had already been executed and, therefore, the money was already in the pocket of the State. But, well, this is just an example of the management that has been done. And from this point of view the Government of the Generality has pointed out in various areas, and one of them has been that of the autonomous work, providing a line of help of 7,5_million euros, which is certain – it is true – they are limited, but they were lines of help, precisely, because there was no other answer on the part of the Central Administration, and therefore from here it wanted to push this answer. And after the youth guarantee program, with these two thousand euros, it is also external for those young locals who are kept during the first twelve months in the activity, it is kept active, and, therefore, up to two thousand euros, in the framework of this youth guarantee program. But, listen, you've said a lot, I won't say more, just some data: 35 percent of all self-employed workers and self-employed workers in this country, only 35 percent are women, only 35 percent; 25 percent are between the age of twenty-five and thirty-eight years. It is true that we too must reflect. And that's why, from the perspective of gender, so that's why they also call public policies to promote the empowerment of women and also to promote this self-occupation in women. The differences are abysmal. And lastly, two more aspects, before I run out of time, I want to make reference. One is the glaring... that's the case with TAEDs, huh? , self-employed workers economically dependent. I agree, we don't like hybrid formulas either; it's one thing or it's the other. But a self-employed worker economically dependent is not an self-employed worker – he is not an self-employed worker. And, therefore, it is necessary to legislate to define very well these positions and these different categories and, therefore, to fight against the false autonomes and from the job inspection; good part of the job inspection fish of social security, and this is the state. And from here, you know, the same committee was repeatedly asked – withdrawal – that the Light Fighter, the Director General of Inspection..., repeatedly asked that they qualify for more inspections and, in fact, that the 32,000 false autonomes that existed in the meat sector..., there are now 26,000 that have already passed to the general order. So, you're working, and you're working based on the job inspection, but it's not enough from the look here, but it's also more involvement on the part of the state, because they're taking advantage of the law of cooperatives' dumping. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] to enable false autonomies. And, lastly, the street markets. I'm riding a market lei. There's a law of markets because the marchers were bogged down, depending on which municipalities they went to, because each regulation is different, and there's a harmonisation so that the marchers know that in all the municipalities of Catalonia there's the same regulation and, therefore, there's no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.37.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.38.0	...the problems they're having right now. And I apologize for delaying my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.40.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose you understand that today I cannot begin my intervention without referring to the injustice that is being committed at these very moments in the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, and that it affects us and directly questions this chamber. The previous Bureau, of the Eleventh Parliament, of this Parliament, presided over by the Honourable Carme Forcadell, political prisoner, and who thinks or believes that this is the normal functioning of a state of law can only do so from bad faith. Judicial interference in parliamentary activity only supposes to see the formal functioning of democracy, but precisely supposes to violate the real democratic foundations of the separation of powers; suppose, too, to violate the right to political participation of the deputies and deputies and the citizens who voted for them. Therefore, I want to express all my solidarity and recognition to Mrs Anna Simó, former first secretary; to Mrs Ramona Barrufet, fourth secretary; to Mr Lluís Guinó, first vice-president and current deputy still in this chamber; to Mr Lluís Corominas, first vice-president; to Mr Yeya Boya, deputy who was also from this chamber, and to Mr Joan Josep Nuet, who still has to be tried at the Supreme Court. And to all of them and to President Forcadell I would like to thank them that in their moment they defend the inviolability of this chamber and do not allow the Bureau of Parliament to become a censor organ of parliamentary activity. [[Greetings.]] And we are going, therefore, now, precisely, for the parliamentary activity that they actually defended at the commission of the autonomies. I would like to add my thanks and congratulations to the other members of the committee. Indeed, it is a commission that we must celebrate, therefore, that from the firm and elegant hand of Mr Bruguera it was completed the compromise that had been proposed, which was to complete the work, to be able to present the conclusions today, here to the plenary. And, indeed, it may be said that they may be outdated in relation to the Covid. I would not say in this way, I would say that the Covid precisely put into evidence many, precisely, of the needs and conclusions that we already reflected there and that the document reflects. It is also important to highlight the great unanimity – there has been some morning, but the great unanimity – in the approval of the whole document, and I think it is a very useful document. Indeed, the general mark of the autonomies has already been described: they are 16_percent of the members of Catalonia's social security, of which 59_percent are physical persons, 32_percent are autonomies linked to societies and 6_percent are familiar; 80_percent do not have employees and 85_per_per_per_per_per-cent contribute to the minimum base. And self-affiliation has gone down, and indeed, with the Covid, unfortunately, they have lost many of these places of work. And that makes it clear that self-employment is not an attractive option; the job of managing to set up a business that is close is not an option that is attracted, and it also puts us in evidence this 85_per_cent that weighs for the least a future precariousness at the time of perceiving the retirement of this collection. I would like to highlight only some of the conclusions that are relevant, which precisely affect the current configuration of the regulation of autonomes: quotes. There has been unanimity in all of the respondents that quotes should be linked to the return of the activity. This would solve different problems: it would eliminate the legal uncertainty of what you want to give yourself high, it would also make the submerged economy disappear from that activity that with which you have little bill activity, you have the doubt of whether to give yourself high or not, and these doubts of whether to give yourself high or not, before you have to pay monthly, you end up not giving yourself high, and therefore to the submerged economy. Moreover, it would make it possible for, through a progressive scale depending on the tickets, also those autonomies that fortunately the trade went well – can pass much to the professional realm –..., they would cook much more, and even with a topall for their own cooking could make there a surplus than they once did for the benefit of others who, in view of the few returns, obviously with this contribution proportional to the activity, would cook less. And, lastly, I would solve a long-standing demand for self-government, which is to cook for the reduced day, which I would no longer hear about going to the real business entrances. It has also been pointed out that an autonomous is not a normal company. Naturally, we can complete all the regulations of safety, of participation, environmental, of course, no one says that we are not going to complete the regulations, we talk about the other day, but we can reconcile the compliment of this regulation to the dimensions. And a company... that many of the autonomies are unique, it's the natural person alone, that can find a way to complete this regulation without it being a beehive load. There was also talk of dependent self-government. Indeed, it is a contradiction in its terms, it generates legal insecurity, and more so..., both for the same self-government as for the same company, because the same company, to know that it is dependent self-government, needs to follow the same self-government as you say it is, and this entry must already be aware that it has to declare it. Therefore, a great legal uncertainty. We also have the digital world, which obviously opens up new business opportunities, but it also generates legal uncertainty, because it makes precisely and mainly the employees of these companies that are developing through the digital environment are mainly young..., through the figure, many times, of the dependent self, but it generates a precariousness and especially of the youth. It would also be useful to update the family identity, which is thought of with the mentality of the traditional family, but which, on the other hand, is not adapted to the reality of our own Civil Code, which recognizes the pair of facts. And also the autonomous society, that the autonomous society is not only a figure to which it is obliged to cotitizar per autonomes, when it should cotitizar per regim general, only to deprive the directi d'entrepres, in case the enterprise goes badly, from its right to the twilight. This is an authentic fraud, made for the same administration, which prevents you from cooking. For a quote that would be higher, because it would be linked to wages, and, in change, more to more, it would also cause undercutting. There has been talk of financing problems, which I share; problems of lateness, which are not solved, and also of second opportunity, which is not a law of authentic second opportunity because I do not include the debts with the Administration. And all that, actually, depends on the state. And we've seen the attitude of the State with the Covid, too. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] The Barcelona City Council has provided help for the local authorities; on the part of the Generality, there has been direct help from the social welfare council; on the part of the State, it has also provided direct help to many sectors of the business council, which has taken over the Facilitative Law... But, on the part of the State, it has left itself to be drawn; they only have the right to the service if they are in the current of social security; that is, in the car they already have economic problems, and they have no right to the service they have set up. Only, an increase in debts and interests, only the first three months, nor an increase in the payment of taxes. The best help for the locals was two months without having to pay for cooking, which was money in the butxaca, immediately, the months of March and April, to survive. I: "If you need help, go ask for a credit. So this is the State that should reform the rules of self-government. So, one more reason to ask for a similar state. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate on the conclusions of the Autonomous Work Study Commission, we will proceed to the next point, until the conclusions are voted on this late, once the point number 9 of the order of the day has been substantiated. [[Opinion of the Research Commission on the Atempts of 17 and 18 August 2017]] [[261-00002/12]] Let us therefore turn to the debate of the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry on the Atempts of 17 and 18 August 2017. In accordance with Rule 67.6 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission of Inquiry into the Times of 17 and 18 August 2017 agreed at its plenary session on 14 July to issue its opinion, which was published in the Butlletí Oficial del Parlament de Catalunya. First of all, he has the word, as chairman of the committee of inquiry, Mr Jordi Munell. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.42.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. In the first place, express also to Councilman Buch..., who has communicated that he would like to be here, but has an indisposition and therefore could not be here as you liked. To thank, as chairman of the committee, all the groups for the work done and the good working climate we have enjoyed in this committee, unfortunately, often, some differences of ideology. But in any case I think he's set up an interesting job with a good atmosphere of friendliness. Also thank the manager and the late woman for the work done and always for her good disposition to the service of the members of this committee. This commission we've met twenty-four times. We've turned down fifty-nine people, experts and witnesses. Also thank them, all of them, for their contribution and also for the bad documentation. In fact, I am sure that all the Members of the Committee will have much to do with this unfortunate phenomenon of global terrorism. Huh? , to be heard before a religion. We also stated that we met once in Ripoll, in committee, exceptionally, and also to give support to the city, which also suffered the consequences of this situation on August 17 and 18. Also express, on behalf of the committee, the feeling and record for the victims, for the families and for everyone who suffered the consequences of those tragic days that our country suffered. Sorry, too, like the president, about the attendance of some invited witnesses, huh? , and, in particular, some ex-ministers, ministers, the director of the CNI, and some security forces and bodies of the State. Except for Mr Nieto, former Secretary of State of Seguretat, who did appear; the rest were excused through an opinion of the Council of State for which they say they are not to be held accountable or to inform the autonomous institutions, the autonomous parliaments. In this sense, we believe that this will leave a void; a void of information and a void of data relevant to the work of the committee. So, so, we understand that a public service commission, like this, and a parliament of popular sovereignty..., we understand that this non-participation has left us a void. Therefore, I think we must express it also at these times. Finally, I also hope that the proposals, therefore, which have been approved or approved, which have been approved and which have been approved here again in Parliament, up to 587 proposals for the resolution of the different groups, will effectively serve to put light on the fact that Catalonia suffered in August 2017, but, above all, that we serve, and so we desire, and express the feeling of all the Members, I believe, in order to prevent and prevent that in the future we can repeat similar facts to our country and, by extension, to the world. Thank you very much, everyone. And, therefore, let's listen to these contributions and vote. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.44.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the chairman of the committee, also for the recognition of the work done, which I also extend to the members of the committee and to the servants of the chamber. The work of this committee of inquiry, which has gone on well for two years, has given as a result the opinion that today is subject to debate and vote in this House. As of April 2018, I said, in this session room, that this committee of inquiry should have done at the Congress of Deputies. In fact, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group at the Congress called for the creation of a commission of inquiry on the 17th and 18th of August 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils. And on the 13th of February 2018, Mr Juan Carlos Girauta, who was then the spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans to the Congress of Deputies, defended a proposal not from law to create a commission of inquiry on these tempts in Barcelona and Cambrils. Mr Girauta said: "In this country, following the attacks of 11 March 2004, a committee of inquiry was set up unanimously by all the groups present in this Chamber. He followed his dient speech: "The central objective of the latter should not be to achieve party objectives, but to obtain conclusions that would lead to the fact that what happened on 11 March would not happen again. Why would it be different now? Why would it be different? Why did someone come up with the idea that the Barcelona bombing had to be investigated in any case by the Parliament of Catalonia? Forgive me for a moment. I mean, if the attack is in Madrid, is the Spanish parliament investigating it and if it is in Barcelona, is the Catalan Parliament investigating it? Did the attacks of the 11-M have been investigated by the Madrid Assembly? Or is it that the dead in Barcelona are less dead? Can anyone explain that to me? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, From my point of view, from the point of view of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group in this Parliament, this is inexplicable. But you know it well, although repeatedly some have said the opposite. The parliamentary groups at the Congress of the Deputies of the People's Party, the Socialist Party, also the groups of Puerme, Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, all these groups, said that not to this commission presented for Ciutadans ; they refused to collect Ciutadan's proposal to set up a commission of inquiry into these times where he was playing, to his people's sovereignty, to the Congress of Deputies ; a commission of inquiry into the times in Barcelona and Cambrils, not a commission of inquiry into the supposed relations between the imam of Ripoll and the CNI, which is what he wanted to do, knowing above all that he did not have the opportunity to pull out and understand the parties who were responsible for the purposes of his work. It goes without saying that, even though in the first months of the commission's operation the parliamentary groups supporting the government made some attempts to give a page to the conspiracy theory, the appearances of the police officials made it very clear that these conspiracy theories had neither a head nor a few. A number of references which have disappeared most of the time in the opinion, which received a majority support from the Commission on Tuesday 14 July. Conspiracy, just the terrorists, the ones who died and, most likely, all the detainees. We don't know yet, but we'll know for sure, because justice is working. We'll know when you hear it, because this is the truth of the facts, which you finally say under the light of law and case law. I have to tell you that this is the first time, in the course of my parliamentary experience participating in various commissions of inquiry, that the committee is debating and voting on the totality of the texts submitted to the parliamentary groups. It is the first time, in my experience, that the texts are voted in full. In the various commissions of inquiry in which he had previously participated, only debate and vote on the conclusions and recommendations. On this occasion, both the conclusions and the recommendations were put to the vote, as, allow me to exaggerate, the cosmosvisions. Today we debate and vote some conclusions, some recommendations and literature force of the copy paste, copying and hooking. To illustrate this: there are many paragraphs of this final opinion of the committee that are a systematic retreat of opinions of experts or opinions of representatives to the committee, without any filters other than giving it per bo. To put it colloquially, as if it were revealed. In the end, part of the opinion wants to give the impression that the Catalan society is a society in which Islamophobia and, say the same opinion, anti-Semitism prevail. These and other considerations clearly raised in ideological approaches may lead us to believe that terrorist attitudes in general, and in particular those that struck us on August 17 and 18, 2017, are, in part, the consequence of our way of life, of our social organization, of the lack of social empathy towards those who have been radicalised or may become radicalised in the future. I look, no. The values that permeate our democratic order, the values that must govern the daily functioning of our institutions, are the values that we defend and the values that we must defend. They are for our other absolute values that we must share and defend among all. The values of freedom, justice, equality, solidarity, pluralism, social cohesion and all those who declare and defend our democratic order are superior values that are not for romances. To make it clear, to our mind, it is with the fundamental values that we defend our democratic order and the political, institutional and social mechanisms that our society already has, that we must face this problem and fight, without complex or pal·liatius, the involutual behaviors and tend to relativize, when not to deny, the importance of defending the fundamental rights and public freedoms. This is the best way to effectively prevent radicalisation and terrorism in any form. We believe it, and of course we defend it. Therefore, the progress that we cannot make many of the statements that it is a fan of today's opinion that we are putting to debate and vote. We have kept our proposals alive, both the approvals and the rejections. And we are also surprised by the attitude of some groups to return to the debate and vote in full on the committee's opinion, which I believe is not a precedent that we can accept. And we think we have to vote in a block. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mr Ramon Espadaler has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.46.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to say members of the government; the government's obvious meeting does not allow them to be here, but in any case I am sure they have an interest in knowing who the conclusions of the committee are. No, we wouldn't know how to start otherwise than it wasn't – and the chairman of the committee said, and we say our words – with a record, with an excited record for the seven dead victims and the 155 people wounded by different intensity in the storms of August 17th and 18th of the year 2017, for one thing. In one place, with a sincere gratitude too, and I believe that it widely shares, to all public servants who, in the fields, therefore, of emergencies, of sanitation, of police bodies, all of them, without exception, therefore, have made a service that is unpayable these days. Also to all those people who were at the place of the parties – the traders, the storekeepers, the taxi drivers, the hosts... –, to all those people who opened the doors and did everything that was, obviously, at their abst. And also to the citizen little by little, that they found, therefore, with controls on the road, with the col·lapses, or in the same city, for this understanding, for this cooperation, many times, warning the police of what they had seen as suspicious. And, also, later on, a final sentence to the terrorist barbarism, so that we have lived, sadly, that we want to live in the cities of Barcelona and Cambrils, and a closing sentence in that cry that united us to all folds, without exception, that we have no reason, and that gathered us shortly after August 17th to the city of Barcelona. We are able to take this forum, therefore, not with a mind of polemitting – there are differences, it is obvious, between the parliamentary groups – but to argue, to understand, what we could say our truth; our truth is that it is possible to have listened without prejudice, therefore, all the interveners related to the chairman of the committee, both on condition, therefore, of people directly affected by the times as witnesses, as experts of the different areas. Based on the premise that an attempt is a failure, it is a failure, it is a failure, it is a failure of the police and it is of the joint venture of the society, which is why we believe that the commission, beyond the differences, has been able to find a critical and constructive tone that has put into value all that has been done well, despite the disintegration and the destabilization of an attempt, because things have been done well, and it has also indicated, therefore, in a noble way, with the will of better, that it is objectively better. Because we believe that this is the best honor we can do to people who have been victims of this time. The committee, said the chairman, has formulated up to 587 resolutions, between findings and recommendations, with important fringes of agreement, which are – there is a substantial part approved, therefore, by unanimity, or almost – but also with disagreements, some of which are important, and those which we do not want, therefore, to conceal, and we will also defend with the vote and with the intervention of our parliamentary group. It is obvious that there is an impossibility to explain all the proposals – we are grateful to all the groups, therefore, that the proposals that we have put forward as the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Units for Progress have all been approved – but I would like to mention which is the hard core of these, starting from the point of view. For us, the fight against Gihadist terrorism, which affects us as a country, as a society, requires a'security' response, and we want to say this with this clarity, which cannot be minimized or relativised, because, and this, too, the Commission notes, must be accompanied by policies in the social spheres, in the Community, in the educational sphere, in the field of integration. However, in any case, underline the need for this security response. And we consider, at the same time, that this is a process to be managed with loyalty and collaboration and cooperation between police bodies, between governments, between intelligence services, and with a correct and efficient management of information, both between them and with respect to society. We could basically differentiate four different areas, in which I will outline some of the conclusions: the security area, the area of attention to emergencies, the communication and the social. In the security field, things have been done well. The policy of communication during the times is re-elected; it is, I believe, an example to follow, unfortunately, in other future episodes that can be donated, here or here. The Cronos device function worked reasonably well. We can't say the same as the Gábia device, which was, therefore, crossed by the authors of the storms. We see the delay in finding the hypothesis right after Alcanar's explosion – the first hypothesis, as we all know, pointed to a drug lab. We value it very positively – I say to find elements of consensus as well – the input of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to the CITCO, the Centre d'Intel·ligência contre la Terrorisme e el Crim Organizat. And we defend – we defend – the need for the Esquad's Cos de Mossos to be added to Europol. And we also want to defend another instrument, which is controversial, which is the Proderae, which we understand as necessary, and which must be reviewed permanently and in collaboration with those responsible, ultimately, for the field of education, and which must be periodically, obviously, reviewed, right? There is one aspect that has been controversial and that has been hovering over the committee; it is Ripoll's imam relationships that respect police bodies. We want to make it very clear what our position is. In this case, we believe that the Commission has credited the condition of a confidant of the National Information Centre on the part of the imam of Ripoll, of which, to our mind, after listening, therefore, the witnesses, particularly the police witnesses, cannot reveal in absolute terms neither that the police services nor the information they know their intention, of course, to tempt. Therefore, we rule out speculations that assign the CNI as the connoisseur, and even at times as the covert. In the field of emergencies, we do want to point out a fact that has not worked very well and that has passed very unnoticed: the failure of 112 for a crucial moment, for practically half an hour. And in the area of communication media, an important finding, too, that is in relation to the debate we have had on image publishing. We are more supporters of the ethic code than of other formulas. And there's a big question: why? Why, in the field of integration, did young people whom we considered perfectly, so integrated, have behaved as they did from this radicalization? I think the social services of the Ripollès County Council point out when they help us reflect, and this is a way forward. And we believe, therefore, that everything you have to see with integration into our society, also has subjective elements. One can be considered externally as integrated, but in any case it cannot be considered integrated itself. Let us therefore think that we must continue to work for equal opportunities, for respect, for tolerance and against ghettoization and any form of stigmatization of any collection, religious belief or, obviously, xenophobic expression. And I would end up, Mr President, thanking, therefore, all the companies of the committee, without exception, therefore, the functioning of this, the support that they have given to our proposals, which we therefore also recognise by collecting proposals from other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. This is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.48.0	Thank you, President. Well, as it couldn't be otherwise, so we also start our intervention with a record for the victims of those tragic attempts, also for a firm condemnation of this barbarism. The storms of 17 and 18 August 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils believe that it is obvious that they respond to a new phenomenon, characterized by extremely rapid radicalization processes and a low-cost, easy-to-achieve and difficult-to-prevent methodology. Even though the attacks that took place were not as hard as initially planned, the cell that carried them out did respond to this type, right? , by attacking a vehicle or a white weapon, prepared for a local cell, on objects of high impact and relatively easy access, such as tourist areas or spaces with large concentrations of people. In this context of this novelty that represented these tempts for our society, and after having listened to all the participants, and also thanking the work done for the joint committee, for all its members and also for its president, our group, which also appreciates the approval of the majority of – almost all – the conclusions and recommendations that we have proposed, so I would like to take advantage of the intervention to highlight some reflections, also some differences that we could have, around four large blocks. The first, about the processes of radicalization. The case of the presumed authors of Barcelona's tempts does not complete some of the patterns that have been repeated in the radicalization of young people in other points of Europe; it has some particularities, does it not? In fact, the communication media showed the surprise of the community when they saw that they spoke Catalan, for example. And maybe the reflection should be why we were so surprised. Or what kind of imagination he's implanted on the Muslim community in our home. Or that the fact that the formal integration criteria, such as schooling, language and working and living in Catalonia, are fulfilled, we would have to ask ourselves whether it implies that migrants really feel part. Or the Catalan society itself sees them as such right and right. We have appreciated, we have seen it at the length of the committee, that there is no single profile of whom you exercise extreme violence. And we have noticed that all possible stereotypes are falling apart, making us realize that radicalisation is a multifactorial phenomenon that, as we put it, has the crisis or the loss of identity, combined with the lack of expectations of the future, in a society that is alien and that does not fully integrate multiculturality. And, therefore, we believe that we do have to ask ourselves the question of ourselves as a society, whether we are facilitating or preventing the dynamics of radicalization as we have lived with that tragic end. And questions like police identifications with ethnic bias, so we think we need to reflect on these types of situations. And we also believe that we can't simplify the problem to issues such as surveillance at mosques or control of image formation, because the issue is much more complex than all of this and requires a much more comprehensive approach. That's why the progress we're going to vote on... we're going to vote against some recommendations that simplify the issue to this fact. And we also believe that it is essential to evaluate and review the Proderae. We believe that, in view of the results, it is necessary to question as much the effectiveness as the suitability of this instrument. And we can learn from previous experiences, like that of the United Kingdom, where the evaluation led us to completion, from its Prevent program, right? therefore, that the consequences can be difficult, because they have restricted the freedom of expression of Muslim communities because they are interpreted by the police authorities as radicalization. And, therefore, we believe that we also need to stop paying attention to the effects that we are having with a program that, in view of the results, has not been effective. The second think tank I wanted to do is about the uncertainties and errors and the learnings in the management of the emergence. Here, the first one we want to put in value, obviously, is the role of all the public servants, of the emergence services and also of the city council, which we believe has responded in an exemplary way, with an ingenious display of solidarity. The management of the emergence, in our view, was very uncertain: the Cronos device, the good communicative policy, the coordination in the end also between the different police units and the emergence services; therefore, many elements that we believe need to be positively valued. Some mistakes, too, have been said before, haven't they? , like the 112 operation, which lasted for thirty hours at the peak point of the emergency, or which did not have the proper guard system to predict or to be careful, acting as a calibre in the replica, in the second time to Cambrils. We also regret that the committee could not clarify the information the CNI had about the imam Es Satty. We're not as taxed as the group that preceded me. We do believe that it is clear that Es Satty was a font of the CNI and it is also clear that the Police of the Generality did not have information of Es Satty, nor was it known that Es Satty was a font of the CNI. But beyond that, we don't think we have any data, do we? Or the board couldn't go any further than that. And this brings us also to some needy ones of better, as some who have also pointed out, as the necessary integration – which has already occurred – from Mossos to CITCO and which may occur to Europol. The third block, on the search and capture of alleged material authors. And here we disagree with many of the groups. For one band, for the intervention that was hard to term to Ripoll, that we believe that it generated an excessive panic, that it was not adequate and that, therefore, it would be useful to review it. And, on the other hand, for the fact that the six alleged perpetrators of the storms that were interfered with or located by the Squad Mosses were shot to death. And we think that this, so, for one band, prevents them from being judged, and for another band, it also prevents us from having information that would have been very valuable for fact-finding. And in this sense, we believe that it is necessary to review the police's protocols so as to prevent the search and capture that result. And lastly..., and I end up with the most uplifting for us, that it's about attention to victims, that if it's true that immediate attention to victims at the time of the storms and the subsequent days was appropriate, that we believe that, in the medium and long term, they have gone oblivious and that they should be taken much more into account, and that, in this sense, we are thinking that the Generalitat de Catalunya has an office of attention to victims, that today is not available, with sufficient resources to make the attention they deserve. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy, Ms. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.50.0	Good morning, all of you. Good morning, deputies, deputies, president. On August 17, 2017, our lives and our daily lives were touched. From Barcelona, passing through Cambrils, Ripoll, Vilafranca and even Rubí, we went out to say that we did not have for, that we are not disposed to submetre 'nsa the doctrine of the shock of global wars and of fascism. And, despite the excitement, we went a little further than the "we don't have to," we recovered the old cry of "his wars, our deaths, because the worst we could do is accept the tempts as if they were drawn from a natural catastrophe. We need to identify imperialism, NATO's military strategies, geopolitical interests, racism, Islamophobia and security drift. And that is to say, in the conclusions that we are debating today and that we are voting today, the CUP has been the only ones that we have made a clear reference to. It is not possible to parade in the name of the pau in the morning and late to negotiate with arms with Saudi Arabia or Turkey, the same way that we cannot talk about Daesh or the Islamic State without talking about the trio of the Azores, the paper of the Spanish State and the Spanish monarchy in the logic of the global war and the negotiation of the war. Thus, the policy of terror, the policy of por, is not exclusive to terrorist groups. There has been a lot of practice, and the policy of the most impact of terror has been made from power, from the same states. With the time we have, we will highlight three issues and a premise that we believe are priorities. In some cases, we add to some of the questions that the previous Members have said. Previa: internal and external limitations of the same commission. Externals: the absolute understatement of all political and police representatives of the Spanish State, except one, to attend the inquiry committee of the Parliament of Catalonia; an obvious limitation in order to be able to investigate with quality. The second: the internal limitations that they already know and that I have been very insistent, we have been very insistent to put this question on the table. First, that police appearances, of any member of a security body were secret. We believe that this has made you lose value in the investigation and commission itself. And also the support that all parliamentary groups, except the CUP, have given to this logic, which is this secrecy and this corporatism with the police. On the three questions, the first, and very important, on the question of the terrorists killed. Almost three years later, we have not been able to question fundamental concerns about those days, despite the fact that we have tried to do so. I refer to the great difficulty of social and political reflection, analysis and debate on the death in the hands of police officers of the alleged members of the criminal organization who perpetrated the attacks. The Cameroonian philosopher Achille Mbembe talks about it in relation to police brutality against African Americans in the United States, which is now on the agenda of international news, and says: "The generalization of the murder is inscribed in police practices. The administration of the death penalty has disconnected from the realm of the right to become a purely police practice. And about that, they didn't want to talk about it, and it was very hard to talk about it. We consider that the CIAA has lost a great opportunity, and even some of the questions we want to raise have not been included in these conclusions; ask how: could they have violated the rights to a just trial? Has the presumption of innocence been violated? Were they needed dead? Do the six dead explain themselves from the logic of self-defence and from neutralizing a much larger objective danger? Have your witnesses been useful to the investigation and the court? Nor have we been able to incorporate the questions, no longer the answers, which we already assume are different. The second question, one of the greatest dangers, racism and Islamophobia. "These children were children like everyone else, like my children; they were children of Ripoll, wrote concussionally a social worker of Ripoll, Raquel Rull. The young people who committed the crimes in Barcelona were theoretically part of a "we", but part of a "we who, as I said, and as one of the representatives of the Commission, Mostafà Shaimi, said: "Today, our barrels and cities coexist but we do not live together. There's a social fracture in our lives. Therefore, we, and in relation to our position, will not support all those reports that speak of integration, of multiculturality, because here we are talking about a question of rights. I'm done. Also about the question of the debate about conspiracy, neglect. Two years after the death of twenty-and-four people, you still have a very opaque plane about whether Imam Es Satty articulated..., how she articulated and plotted the Rambla and Cambrils storms. This opacity denotes left behind and even neglect on the part of the State; neglect that is noted with the fact that the Spanish Congress did not want to make an investigation commission, as well as always keep the Law of State Secrets, a Francoist law, on the capacity of civil society and also of parliaments to investigate what the CNI is doing or what it stops doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.51.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.52.0	Yeah. In the first place, add us – some other Members have made it – to the record of the victims of the storms of 17 and 18 August in Barcelona and Cambrils. We went to this committee of inquiry with a certain scepticism because we felt that we could pass some of the things that certainly happened. And, of course, I believe that..., we believe that the conclusions do not include elements that, in our hearing, were phonative or phonative, and the groups, some groups have preferred to prioritize a certain partisan relationship that certainly detects the low points that allow us to improve the protection of citizenship in the face of the future. There are groups that are alienated from the limitation of the scope of the committee of inquiry. It's very simple. You can read the Statute of Catalonia, you can read the Rules of Parliament and you can see what the limitation is. And if not, you can also read the writings addressed to you by the Attorney General of Catalonia in relation to all those people you have tried to report by criminal means because they did not appear on Parliament's committee of inquiry. Basically, because we have the competitions in the field of the generality's own competitions, and we have no competitions either over the other communities or over the joint venture of the State; the political representatives are subject to the control of their political institutions, and the Catalan chamber cannot control the representatives of the State, which, in any case, would have to be in the Congress of Deputies, if so decided. But you've already had this speech that they don't come, that they don't have Catalans, etc. Elements that we hear have not been included in the conclusions and that are relevant to us. First example: December 2016, the Barcelona Assembly rejects the recommendation of the National Police Cos to install obstacles to competing places. This is a reality. Second element. The interest of the Belgian police on which Ripoll was later imam remained in the most completely informal area. Moreover, what was later Ripoll's image was trying to get a job in a speaker in Belgium, and precisely the insistence of the police on trying to determine his background caused him to leave Belgium and come to Ripoll, or come to Catalonia. Another conclusion was the CIA's rebuttal alert on the possibility of an attempt at Rambla, which was ruled out, but the political leaders had to store it... – and the police, too, had to store it and said that this information was false, when that information was certain. It had no impact on what went on afterwards, but the information was certain, which means that it wanted to prioritise the political relationship before reality and before the truth. We understand, too, that the lack of interest in the fixation of hypothesis in the Alcanar explosion was instrumental. It was phonetic, for two motiuses. In the first place, on alert 4 of terrorist rush was not considered the most unfavorable hypothesis, which was precisely that it was an explosive manufacturer. But the second question, and more important: precisely the investigations that were made to stop Alcanar's explosion was what triggered the improvisation of terrorists, which were first done in Barcelona and then in Cambrils. In Barcelona, in the Rambles, a 17th August, five of the late, without any type of police vigilance; cap, not one. And that's also an element that we think is worth it..., we're not critical, we're not trying to criticize, but we do want to put the accent on it, because it's mistakes that we think they won't be repeated. We positively value the Gàbia operation; it did not serve the hundred_per_cent to hold the author of the time, but it did serve to see where he was fleeing, and therefore it was decided also in his detention the later days. And the Cronos device, actually, worked positively. The Proderai. The Proderai intended for prevention measures surely worked correctly; what we also need to be critical in the sense that it surely needs to expand the scope of action of the Proderai to try to make it more effective even than it is. The committee was also struck by myths: the relationship between the imam and the CNI, conspiracy theories... or that, in fact, there was an informal offer, but there was an offer from the Tedax of the Civil Guard to the Tedax of the Mossos d'Esquadra to Alcanar. Our conclusions have been practically rejected. We will vote in favour, basically, of all those from Ciutadans and the Socialist Party – with some exception –; we will also vote in favour of some of the Catalonian Group in Comú Pode, especially those who refer to 112 and the need for greater attention and support for victims. And, as the final conclusion, we believe it is a lost opportunity to self-criticize and improve the protection of Catalans. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word to defend..., on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra de Catalunya, Ms. Montserrat Fornells. From the Republic Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.54.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputies, deputies, people who follow us from home, very good morning to everyone. First of all, I would like to start my intervention by setting a record for all the people who died in the storms and sending all the scalp to their families and friends. Then, I would like to finish the relevant thanks, starting with all the people who have participated and attended the wide range of different sessions of the Committee of Inquiry; many thanks to all and all for their contributions, which have given the necessary content and expertise to prepare and present our final conclusions. I would also like to thank Deputy Jordi Munell as chairman of the committee and Mayor of Ripoll, to always make things easier; I would also like to thank all the Members and Members of the rest of the parliamentary groups for their work, and I would also like to thank Mercè Arderiu and Principal Manager Eduard for their hard work. And in my group, I would like to thank all the companies that have participated in this commission in these two years, the Óscar Peris, the Eva Baró, the Gerard Gómez del Moral and especially Najat Driouch; also the support of the Esquerra sector, and especially the Ramon Codina, and the technique of our group, the Barbara Lligadas. Thank you all for the support, the collaboration and all the work done. Once you've done your thanks, I'll come in and talk about the assumption that brings us to this debate. After the terrible storms that our country suffered in August 2017, from the Parliament we decided to create the Commission for the Investigation of Barcelona and Cambrils storms to try to put on the light that happened, to determine the precedents, to determine the causes, the implications, the participation, the perpetuation and the consequences of those events, and, with this analysis, to determine which actions could last to prevent events like those from happening again. Families and citizenship, in general, deserve it, and should give them answers from all sides. Today we find ourselves here to finally approve the opinion of this committee's conclusions. There have been two years of work, with twenty-four sessions of the commission, which involved the participation of fifty-nine participants. But unfortunately, too, with many people who, after having been quoted on different occasions, refused to appear in Parliament. A sad and sad fact, and a lack of respect for the institution and families of victims. This committee was not aware of the opinion and motivation of the decisions that were taken by those people who did not want to compare, all who refer to the governments of the State, to the police bodies of the State and to the centres of intelligence of the State. They refused to compare all except one, Mr. Nieto. Their incomparencies have not only left much inconclusive about the fundamental aspects of the investigation, but have even fed them; even more so when the Congress of Deputies itself has prevented the creation of a committee of respect. The Ciutadans company said that Ciutadans' law proposal was rejected; basically, it was rejected because many of the papers that were presented were not accepted. However, the Republican Left Group in Congress and the PDECAT Group have on various occasions presented the creation of a commission of inquiry and has been rejected by the rest of the parliamentary groups. After listening to experts and colleagues, from the Republican Group we presented our conclusions in social and public safety, incorporating, in addition, a battery of recommendations to apply in the future. Since our group, we have defended diversity as a social richness and ask that no stigmatization or outflow be made. We believe that it is a social transformation of foundations, so that prevention policies involve all the actors of society, with a direct bridge between the academic world and public administrations for policies of prevention of violent extremism. In this sense, we also recommend working for a single people united in diversity and, therefore, without stigmatizing it. It is necessary to drop social segregation to break the pond compartments that generate society, and school is a key element. It is essential to address a revision of the school model that you post for the distribution of ethnological diversity. From our group we also advocate incorporating the socio-ethnic daily life into the Administration, both in the performance and in the reception of public services, captivating the socio-cultural identity deficiencies that perceive vulnerable collections, especially in those services that offer direct attention to the citizenry, such as now health care or safety. With our eyes on security, our group aims to avoid the excess of "security of society, above all because it is up because of the lack of preventive policies. All the way back, the key is to break the dichotomy between them and us, and to avoid reducing positions that link the Arab world to the violence. We insist on promoting the richness of a society that is made up of different socio-cultural realities, that avoid homogenizing or exclouring them. With this spirit, we presented different interdepartmental recommendations to our conclusions, conclusions which were approved in their entirety last week at the committee and which we hope will come back to today. Some examples of these conclusions and recommendations that we have presented are, for example, to carry out an independent study analysing the radicalization process and identifying the social risks that allow violent extremism to occur; to consolidate the effective presence of the right of the Mossos to the CITCO and also to encourage its participation as the competent authority in international coordination bodies; also to sanction Islamophobic conduct; to review the employment status of the imam; to create an office of equal treatment and non-discrimination; to implement a prevention methodology to the classroom, and thus to broaden the disciplinary model or mediator, and so on, more than one hundred conclusions. I would also like to make a point, and I have already made a suggestion of respect, that some of the conclusions made by the rest of the parliamentary groups incorporate terms such as gihadism or slaughter, that experts have asked us not to use it and that it is used alternate terms such as Islamic terrorism or neutralisation. Finally, let us hope and desire that the work done in the two years and the conclusions that today the plenary has approved will serve to put a thread to the needle and face a future better for our country, without discrimination, and that it can veto or, if not, detect in a dynamic time of violent radicalization, so as to prevent us from living again such a sad and corporeal situation as we experienced in August 2017. Let's get to work there, it's a lot of work to do; let's do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To position herself, she, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, spoke the words of MP Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.56.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Members, guests..., I make a statement of the guests, affected and victims who have not been invited to the plenary of the Parliament, but because of the situation we have with the Covid, they are in other dependencies of the Parliament, and others who are following it online; therefore, a very special greeting. First of all, I will be given a chance, because exceptionality in this Parliament and this State never ceases to surprise us, it never ends, and I would like to remind you that while we are debating and voting, the Bureau of the previous Parliament is being judged not far from here, at the TSJ, and that a member of the CUP is also being judged. There is no worse crime for a parliament than normalizing repression. And it's weird to be making this parliament while they're judging the Bureau of the previous Parliament. [[Greetings.]] From here the most sincere support and all of us who are being judged right now. There have already been many reflections on the storm, the storms of 17 and 18 August in Barcelona and Cambrils. There were times we could almost wait for, because we were in 4_about_5 on anti-terrorist alert, but you never think it could happen, and a lot less than you could pass so close to home. The committee of inquiry into the storms, as has already been said, we were able to listen to experts, witnesses... I also wanted to thank all the parliamentary servants who have been helping us, all the experts, all the witnesses, all the deputies we have shared the committee, doubts, questions, we have been able to debate, because I believe that a great deal has been done, that we will conclude with this vote and approval of the conclusions. We reported a little more..., it has already been done, but I would like to repeat again, with great enthusiasm, that a little more the State and the different Spanish governments have wanted to undermine the institution of the Catalan Parliament when the required witnesses refused to appear, even though their incompetence is characterized by a crime of disobedience, also by a crime of disobedience. As the Statute of Autonomy says, in Article 59.6, Parliament may create commissions of inquiry on any issue of interest to the Generality. And I believe that this issue is of interest to the Government of Catalonia. Is the Parliament of Catalonia less than another Parliament? Is it that the votes of the citizens of Catalonia are less important than the votes of the Spanish citizens? The different people who refused to give explanations before the commission of inquiry are very uplifting people, whom we have already mentioned, as uplifting as the ex-president of the Spanish Government, or the director of the CNI, or the Director General of the Police. They should be investigated by the prosecution, as the Rules say, but they will not be investigated because the prosecution has already filed it, insulting and disrespecting not just the Parliament, but the most important thing, the family and victims of the storms. They have no shame, because rather than decline to appear on this committee, as has already been said, the committee of inquiry to the Congress and the Senate has been blocked, and the required information from the Ministry of the Interior, the Directorate General of the Police or the Directorate General of the Civil Guard has been avoided. What are you guys up to? So maybe what they're storing is what's been proven and approved by this commission, which is that the brain of the terrorist attack, Imam Abdelbaki is Satty, was a confidant and informant of the National Intelligence Centre. It has also been proven its connection with the National Police, which made its file disappear just after Alcanar's explosion, so don't be related to the National Police. We have also noted the need to repeal the Spanish Law of Official Secrets, a Francoist law, as has already been mentioned; a Francoist law that has allowed us not to send our reports and that we cannot continue to investigate, and that we cannot continue to clarify some of the doubts that we have in this investigation. Temptations are difficult to predict and very difficult to avoid, but social experts have helped us to understand, in this committee, that it includes prevention and community inclusion in prevention, in front of disciplinary systems, as well as promoting a pact for interculturality. Unlinking the Islamism of terrorism is essential, including the community affected by the resolution, promoting groups of interreligious dialogues, and creating counternarratives that will attract violent actions. We must conclude that during the time the communications were excellent, it was done fluidly and professionally, according to diversity, but that it could avoid the use of the images of the victims, because they involve a revictimization of the victim, a double victimization, very painful. And we have approved the creation of an ethical code, or a system of sanctions, to avoid xenophobic tendencies or hate speech from certain certain news or photographs. Emergence service management, in general, during the storm and operations Gàbia and Cronos, deployed to the Mossos, worked correctly. Also, we have to report that the Squadron Mosses did not receive any information from the CNI about Es-Satty, that they were unaware of all the priors of Ripoll's imam, and therefore they were totally alien to the relationship of this one, for example, with the Xacal operation, and their priors by traffic of stupefants, or their relationship with the CNI. This information could have been vital, vitally important, for the time being. The team must have access to all the data bases of the other security forces of the Spanish and international states, and must be integrated into international police structures such as Europol and Interpol. We're celebrating that the PSC agrees, and now that it's in the government, it can make it possible. For what it does to emergencies and care for victims, we believe that all victims must be treated and supported, regardless of the recognition of the Spanish State. And, therefore, we defend the protocol of attention to those affected by great emergencies, which has developed the Department of Interior, and we believe that it is essential that it is presupposedly and carried out, so that it accompanies the victim from the emergence to its complete healing. Catalonia must have an integral service to care for victims in order to avoid a double victimization of those affected, not knowing well where to go. And finally, the investigative committees of this Parliament must be able to clear up responsibilities for those attempts, facilitate the recovery of victims and those affected, as well as ensure a just trial and that you do justice to those attempts, and for this reason we hope that, according to what the law establishes, these conclusions will be approved by the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia and will be communicated to the Government without prejudice, which the Bureau of Parliament will also be able to communicate to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate on the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry on the 17 and 18 August 2017 Times, I would say that the vote will take place this late, once point 9 of the order of the day has been substantiated. The fourth point of the order of the day is the debate of the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry on the Application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia. [[Opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the Application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia]] [[261-00003/12]] In the first place, has the word Mr. Antonio Morral, as president of the Commission of Investigation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.58.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. In fact, it is a coincidence, but at once acclaim, that the day we present the conclusions of the 155th Commission, in this plenary room, is also the beginning of the trial of the members of the Bureau of the last legislature. That's a sign that there's something they've been beaten up about. From here on out, my support and all the souls to the people who are, at these times, judging by allowing the debate in this plethora. That said, the committee, for approximately one year and a half, held twenty-one sessions and made forty appearances. I would like to thank the readers and technicians of the house for their diligence in making possible the development of this whole task, during all this time, and also to do..., to say that all the appearances have been, let's say, very useful and have been scrambling, diligently, what the objectives of this commission have been, therefore, was: to know the causes, to value the legality of the application of 155 and also to value the consequences, both social, economic, institutional and political, that they assumed for the country the application of this article. That said, however, let's like the chairman of the committee's Bureau, also show some dissatisfaction for not being able to get answers to key questions from people who were the most political leaders in the decision to apply this article. We were not able to have his presence in the committees, they could not compare, in the report of the Council of State, that he told them that they could afford 'his luxury of underprivileged for which it is the Parliament of Catalonia. I also want to regret that there have been groups of this chamber that have endorsed, say, the application of 155 and have also renounced their participation in this commission. However, I would also like to make it quite clear that in the tasks of this committee, I believe, very strongly... with some emotional sessions, all of which were the members of the government who were dismissed for 155, who today are being retaliated, imprisoned and exiled. Their appearances were filled with emotion and other political interest. To thank, also, the good doing to all the Members who have participated in the Commission and to reiterate, also, the thanks to all the people who have appeared in this committee, the contribution of those who have donated little, let us say, to a more precise knowledge than it has assumed, let us say, the application of this article in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] To position himself on the opinion, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.60.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We, Ciutadans, proposed a committee of study on dependence when you started this 155th investigation. That study for the unit had to deal with improving the lives of the elderly, who are going to be very much, more and more, in the Catalonia of 2030: improving their living conditions, their unintended loneliness..., but you chose to open and launch the 155 and voted against, all the separatist groups in bloc because it is seen that Parliament does not have time to discuss improving the lives and quality of life of the elderly and prefer to occupy resources, deputies, infrastructures in making this 155 commission. It was a sign of what was to come. Then you have closed this commission a hundred_per_cent processor in pandemic time. Catalonia is in a global pandemic, the biggest economic crisis we have ever faced, people worried about their lives, about their health, about the health of their elders, about their children, about the economy, about their jobs, about business... And the parents of the Catalan homeland, instead of keeping their processionary shame for the better, bring it to Parliament in the midst of the pandemic. This commission was born under the sign of political selfishness and closes equally. Ciutadans did not want to participate and waste the time of the Members for something that is not for all Catalans, but to give satisfaction to the most hyperventilated independence. And it is that the conclusions of the 155 commission twist reality in a shameful way to introduce among Catalans the poison of radicality and division. It seems... to you... according to you, 155 fell from the sky. And I ask myself: "What competence did the State take from the Generalitat de Catalunya? What competition did he take from you? What good was the government of that time intended to do for the Catalans that the state maliciously prevented with the application of 155? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What happened is that in this Parliament illegal laws were passed, the rights of Catalans were destroyed, a snorkeling referendum was called illegally and knowingly, the ballot boxes were put in place on October 1, and, of course, until that moment, the State, even then, applied 155; not even when Mr Puigdemont's unconscious government called on people to expose themselves to the action of the forces and security forces of the State to avoid... that they were to avoid, by court order, the holding of this... This... this simulation of illegal referendum. Not even then was the Constitution applied in Catalonia. And you continued in the government to pilot the clashes and get the photos and victimistic story of October Day One. You came to declare independence on October 10, 2017, which lasted a little, but you came back on October 27, when you could actually have avoided the application of article 155 by calling an election. And they didn't want to do it. They wanted to take Catalonia to the confrontation. So the 155 that he avoided is that an unscrupulous government, instead of calling elections as it had the opportunity until the last moment, put in place the shameful laws that removed the passport to its citizens and that prevented people like Puigdemont from choosing judges; people like Torra carried the immigration policy in the new republic or friendly and ultra-nationalist cults such as Conseller Koiné, Mari Angeles Vilallonga, eradicated from their republic the language of the colonists, who according to her brought here Franco. 155 turned us back into a democratic and constitutional country. 155 avoided further corporate flight. 155 gave peace to all Catalans who want to be citizens of a Catalonia within Spain and Europe. And 155 showed that strong democracies are above those who hear the voice of the people and choose who is part of that people and hand out Democratic cards. The same as later, even more enlightened by the distortion of the reality to which their correspondents submit, come out on television, without regreting the division they caused, the pain they caused, the poverty and fear that brought so many people and so many Catalan families. We have not been involved in this new abuse of nationalism, which is supported by propaganda and the huge amounts of money that distract you from other needs to apply to the process, produce conclusions in which you show how difficult it is to make policy with you in reasonable terms. The conclusions on 155 are completely illegal, revanchists and hatemakers. Parliament was a party to the challenge of article 155 before the Constitutional Court. You appealed, separatist gentlemen, and you lost in court. Be democrats, accept the sentences. The 155 that applied the PP government with the support of Ciutadans and PSOE was completely legal and was carried out within the Constitution. File 14 You pretend, showing your scant sense of democracy, to win by voting in Parliament what you lost in the courts. And, by the way: this illegality of the conclusions, which merely repeats the supposed legality of the coup to democracy, should lead to Sánchez's government appealing these conclusions to the Constitutional Court. It is contradictory that what the Socialist Party defended in the Senate and which ratified the Constitutional Court unanimously, is not defended by the Government before the courts. And just say, as a button shows, conclusion 47, revanchista and full of hate: « Recommendations and proposals of better. 47.2 Rebuilding is manifested to entities, institutions or enterprises from which active collaboration in the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution has remained clear. I mean, you're pointing to entities and companies looking for revenge. Those who didn't help you. Some will say... look, I have to finish already because it doesn't give me time [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , what sadness it gives, ladies and gentlemen separatists, where you are taking to Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.61.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congressman. In order to position himself on the opinion, Mr Ferran Pedret, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC Units, has the following words:
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.62.0	Thank you, President. Deputys the deputies. The conclusions of this committee of inquiry on the application of Article 155 come here today. Attention, commission of inquiry, not study. A commission of inquiry, in principle, must serve to establish, in its parliamentary office, the political responsibilities that may be little clear respect for any matter of public interest and, in principle, also within the framework of the competence of the Government of Catalonia. But the political responsibilities around the concrete implementation of Article 155 of the Constitution were not in discussion. No one has denied them. At each point in the process in which this was to be applied, the responsibilities could correspond to the Government of Spain, the Council of State, the Plenary of the Senate, etc. There was no possible discussion about this. But there was a commission of inquiry that started its single with a vote, more than two years ago, in which this commission was created. A resolution of creation of this commission that was worth reading because it already contained the conclusions to which, inevitably, today up. Therefore, in the background we can share with some group that has expressed that time has been lost from this Parliament and from the Members and Members who have participated in it. It was not our case, because from the very reading of the resolution that was adopted it was clear that it was inevitable that you would come to the conclusions that you came to, because they were already moving forward. That is to say, this committee has had the typical structure of a petition for principles in which, let's say, the final conclusion is nothing but the premise. Clearly, it is very dishonest from the intellectual point of view to lay the work of parliamentary opposition groups on a committee that is framed in this way. Moreover, at the time of the creation of the commission, it was already known that the Government of the Generality, constituted after the elections of 21 September 2017, had commissioned a committee of the Presidency to prepare a report on the concrete effects of the application of Article 155 in the context of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, in the conjunction, at last, of the Catalan society. In fact, it is created the July of 2018 this commission, it does not begin its work until November 6, 2018, few days before the report is presented – which is November 13, 2018 – of this commission, in which all these conclusions that the parliamentary groups of the independence majority have approved and that carry today to debate and vote in plenary are contained. Therefore, from this point of view, I believe that it will be perfectly understood that our parliamentary group, even though it has been withheld from it by the chairman of the committee, do not participate in this, which we cannot describe as anything other than a farce. From farce, in the sense of the second, he accepts that the dictionary gives him, that it is a pretended thing that is intended to make him pass for real. And, therefore, we could not take part in it. Among other things because it was intended to investigate an effect without investigating the cause. He's always treated it that way about independence, 155 as if it was an ailing fact that you didn't respond to any motive. But we talk, we talk about the causes; we talk about the 6th and 7th of September 2017. Because here, even though it was a very important step forward from the independenceist majority – because, indeed, it was done, let's say, overstepping the Rules of Parliament, the State itself, the Council of State Guarantees, the rights of Members and Members of the Opposition and Citizens to whom they represent, in fact, together with citizens – more important than what was approved. They actually approved two texts on the grounds that they were read. Because I remember, one more time, that a law is a law if it is made by the organ that has competence to do so and through the procedure that must be followed to do so. And those two texts weren't approved this way. And so they could have the shape and appearance of the law, but they weren't. They were texts that intended, short and short, to repeal the Constitution and the Statute, to liquidate the self-government of Catalonia and replace it all folded for a pseudoconstitution, that what it did was, let us say, let us see the bells of the flood. Because what was designed there was a state of dubious democratic merit, to say the kindest way I could think of, a design designed to minimize the social sectors opposed to independence. And now that it's so fashionable to talk about good and evil and who is good person and bad person, I will not attribute it to the curse of an independent majority; it's that it was a necessary condition for any possibility of this born autocratic state to consolidate. Or it is a minority of a social sector opposed to independence, which is socially majority, even though electorally it has not been translated that way, or it was absolutely impossible to give the new invention away. Therefore, she pretended to become subordinates to this new state all those who did not share the political project. I see whether this is democracy or not. And so, let's just say, for the most part, if we didn't have enough, don't stop constantly reminding us that I would do it again. That's what they say, on parole. I don't know who the conditions are that should be fulfilled. But they tell us they'd do it again. I believe that this is the size of the great misunderstanding of who are the preferences of the Catalan society around the question of secession, which is effectively divided. And they represent a majority minority composed of very many people who have been supporting them during the past decade, but who do not authorize them, from the very beginning, to pull for the right and pretend to impose their political project on the other. 155 assumed the intervention of autonomy, not its suspension; it assumed that there were effects, yes, much less than the attempt to consolidate the act of force which they tried on 6 and 7 September and then with the DUI; it assumed the collaboration of many high-ranking officials, both from the orb converging as from the Republican Left with 155, which could be publicly pleasing; it assumed the restoration of the Generality, facing whom it intended to liquidate it; the convening of some elections, in which we all participated and from which a new independent government arose, without anyone having discussed the electoral results. And, thanks to the leadership of our new United Government partners, we can count on constitutional jurisprudence today that validates the concrete application of this last resort tool, which was 155, and also does not assign the limits, which is also very important constitutionally. And, of course, three years later it is not clear that there has been any legal action aimed at establishing criminal responsibility for the application of 155.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. To position himself on the opinion has the word, on behalf of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.64.0	Thank you, President. Well, from this commission, the first thing we have to say is that it couldn't develop its functions in full and democratic normality for two reasons. The first, and most salient, is that a part of the people who were quoted to compare were either deprived of freedom or political exile, and therefore it is impossible to work with democratic normality. And the second is that many other people who had been quoted, so they refused to compare, made us regret and consider a lack of respect for this institution. In any case, on October 27, 2017, before the threat that a unilateral declaration of independence is effective – because, even though the conclusions do not say so, we all know that this was the political context – the Senate authorized the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, an act unprecedented since the recovery of democracy through which the Government of the State intervenes and suspends Catalonia's self-government for seven months. To the band of the most obvious affect of the rights and freedoms of the conjunction of the city of Catalonia and its institutions, which we have been able to show with the work of this commission, we have also found that the application of Article 155 has produced negative effects from the political point of view, from the economic point of view and also from the social point of view. For us, the two main conclusions of this committee, in political terms, are these: the first, that the application of Article 155 did not contribute to the resolution of the political conflict between Catalonia and the State, all the contrary; and the second, that 155 could have been avoided if the different actors, all of us, had been able to find democratic lives of dialogue for the resolution of a conflict of political nature, which we now see as possible. And it is that the application of Article 155 is produced in the mark of a political conflict at a time when the Government of the State, under the presidency of Mariano Rajoy, renounced to enable institutional dialogue spaces. On the contrary, the different powers of the State were aligned in a repressive response, a good part of which continues today still in force, because at this very moment the Bureau of this Parliament is being judged. A repressive response, deia, articulated in three whites. The first, the institutional policy, which was materialized through the application of Article 155, but not only, but also with other continuous measures of re-centralisation and intervention of the Catalonian self-government by the Government of the People's Party between the years 2011 and 2018. The white second was the judicial, with business, as we all know, and the third was the police, with violent and disproportionate actions that we all remember. This commission has brought light to the first of these whites, to institutional politics. And in this sense I want to make it clear that the groups we have participated in, so we have reached a high degree of consensus on what the effects of the application of Article 155 have been. It has not been so with the report; we do not share either the report or the language or the good part of the analysis of what happened that late one and which contain these conclusions. Because, as I said before, these conclusions explain only part of the story. That is why we believe that this committee has been a lost opportunity, because we have the opportunity, one and the other, to recognize each other, to recognize the pain caused, to make self-criticism and to seek common points in order to advance. But our feeling is that one side of this chamber has evaded its responsibility by not participating in this committee, and the other side of this chamber has wanted to impose its report. Still, we want to value some of the small things that we believe are steps forward, as was the witness of Raül Romeva, who, from his political condition, which is not a minor issue, recognized that during the late 2017 had caused pain in multiple directions, and claimed that all the pain – all – had to be recognizable in order to be repaired. Look, we don't move the two nationalisms present in this chamber; we move another vector, which is what explains our position in this commission of inquiry, and it's none other than the fight against privileges and against all abuses of power. If this is transferred to the background debate we are dealing with – the right of nations to self-determination – the reference is very clear: to fight against the privileges and rapes of the oppressive nation, but no tolerance with the desire of the privileges of the oppressed nation; It would agree not to forget, neither, this second part of the quote. And that's why when Catalonia, its institutions and its people are victims of the repressive force of the State, how the U of October happened or how it happened with the application of 155, we have clearly positioned ourselves and fought like the most abuses of the different powers of the State. Now, when Catalan nationalism deliberately banishes the half of its own country, we too find ourselves in front of it. And that's what happened in this chamber, when the government majority, which we all know wasn't a social majority, decided to pull for the one-sided right. And in the conclusions of this committee, this was not meant to reflect, it was meant to pass by others. And we believe that this is a mistake, because we are convinced and convinced that a country can only move forward if it does not leave anyone behind. And that has a name, and it's called fraternity, and fraternity is opposite frontally to nationalism. File 15 Miri, we've heard him say on repeated occasions to Jordi Cuixart, this week's end: "It's not about expanding the base. It's not about wanting to convince someone who doesn't think like us to win with 51_percent of the votes. We believe that it is a matter of recognizing that Catalonia is a diverse and plural country and that it is to be built from this plurality. It is, in short, a matter of sharing a part of the path that we can make folds. No, you and we, but 80 percent of this country's society believes that Catalonia has the right to decide its future freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to position himself on the opinion, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.66.0	Thank you, President. We want to dedicate this intervention to our company Mireia Boya and to all the members, the members of the Bureau of Parliament of the last legislature who are now feeling justice and justice at the High Court of Justice of Catalonia and who want to be free. The application to the Autonomous Administration of Catalonia of Article 155 of the Constitution in the month of October 17 was a clear case of imposition of the state's raison d'Etat on the democratic raison d'état and of the will to win with institutional violence where the political parties defending the state had lost to the ballot box. It was a full-time 78 rule. The context was, and still is, a state operation against independence and all dissent that has faced in defense of the social, civil, political, individual and collective rights of our country. Thus King Philip VI expressed it in his speech of October 4th, 17th, voicing and legitimizing the suspension of democracy in Catalonia, as well as all forms of violence – including the fetishist – so much the predictions between September 20th and October 1st, as they would be derived. So they warned and threatened various Spanish political leaders of the People's Party, the PSOE and the Citizens, giving in fact that the Spanish State would keep the unit of Spain at all costs, paying us, if anything, a democratic price. The work, testimonies and appearances of the Commission have shown that the intervention of the State in the context of the application of 155 counted with significant support and complicity between the Catalan elites and oligarchies of the business, banking, finance and legal circles and communication media. And yes, we do. This fact was especially evident in the course of the appearances of the representatives of the bank, who expressed, explicitly and without beginnings, their complicity and support for the application of 155 according to the supposed primacy of legal certainty over their financial interests. Attention, representatives of the bank say that the legal security of economic interests is over democratic rights. Take note. The application of 155 would not, however, have been so effective without collaboration, obedience and flattening of some, substrata of some, not all, high-level of the Generality that they chose to listen to the State and its guidelines and actively participate in the intervention of autonomy coordinating with the leaders and officials of the State that commanded the application. Why did the other Junts charge for the Yes continue in their places, serving directly the ministries of the State? Has anyone planted a boycott strategy at 155? Did you appreciate what impact it would have had in acting this way? The work, witnesses and appearances of the committee have clearly demonstrated these events, once these questions have remained unanswered. The declaration of independence and the proclamation of the Republic in Parliament on 27 October, which followed the referendum of 1 and the general wave of 3 October, was a legitimate and democratic political act, which did not have an effective legal translation for the repressive context, but also for the decision of the Government of the Generality and of Juntes per el Sí not to support the political confrontation with the State continuing the social and popular mobilization of those democratic and fighting days. In the wake of the failure of the dialogue and the failure of the negotiations with the Spanish State, unilaterality there and now remained as clear as the only way to exercise self-determination and face the repression of civil and political rights. This scener facilitated the application of 155 and created a favourable context for subsequent repression. In fact, 155 have been embedded in the DNA of autonomy, which continues to be intervened and restricted, once self-censorship remains in force in Catalan politics and its institutions. Two conclusions that we want to reschedule to end. Only the exercise of the right to self-determination, as well as the fullness of social, civil and political rights, will make possible the real banishment of 155 of our institutions. And two, we ask the Parliament and the Government of the Generality that, before future scenes of restraints from self-government, I change my mind and apply an attitude of non-cooperation and disobedience to defend the civil and political rights of our country. I'm done. This opinion is an expression of the agreements and disagreements and diversity in the independence movement. We still need a shared analysis of the facts of the 17th and of the learnings and lessons in front of a new battle with the State to exercise self-determination. It's urgent to do so, because the strike is urgent. They recognize the coincidences and also refer us to our positions, recognize diversity and collectively place us at the back of the new battle, we will vote yes to the joint opinion on the contributions of Junts to Catalonia and Esquerra and we will also vote yes to some of the contributions of the commons more than in some cases we will abstain from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word to position itself on the opinion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.68.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs. It was not a commission of inquiry, we already knew from the first day that the object for which this figure of the commission of inquiry was created was not intended to investigate absolutely anything. You already had the written conclusions from before your constitution. The aim was to use the parliamentary institution as a propaganda mechanism and the need to give a letter of nature to a fictional report, which they expressed today with their conclusions, to justify the failure of the visit to the State of the State, because the Government of the Generality and this same Parliament are part of the State, right? Our parliamentary group attended the first and last sessions, and the feeling that we had, both on the first and last day, is that the non-separatist groups have faith in us, we were more at the committee. You'll tell me no, but look, I'll just give you an example. At the next sitting, which is the vote on the conclusions, the conclusions of all the groups are voted on and they are obliged to vote on the conclusions that the Group of the People's Party, the only non-separatist group, has presented. Yes, Mr President, he had to be warned that he was oblivious to vote on the conclusions of the People's Party Group. We have presented conclusions, we wanted to present conclusions in order to make clear the facts that were hard to implement Article 155 and the Spanish Constitution, because we wanted to put into evidence the repeated will that there was on the part of the Government of the Generality to violate the legal order. And I'll only teach them an intangible image, [[the timer the show]] But it is a graphic image – very tangible – of the President of the Generalitat Puigdemont, President Puigdemont, April 2017. « Today I have rejected the fifth notification of the Constitutional Court. We won't stop moving on. In fact, he went so far – so far, so far – that he stayed in the trunk of a car and ran away. Very honorable. You say to the conclusions that the application of the Constitution is unconstitutional. Well, then, listen, look at the rulings of the Constitutional Court in appeals from Podemos and the same Parliament in Catalonia where you tell them exactly the opposite. We wanted to be aware of these conclusions which were more than six thousand companies that left Catalonia, their social partners from Catalonia, and more concretely between October 3rd – October 3rd – and October 27th – two thousand companies that left, but we also wanted to be aware of the positive opinion of the Spanish Constitution's application by the employers that you made appear to the Committee of Inquiry: Foment and Cecot. I, in the literal words of the representative of Cecot: "The 155 generates tranquility, the state control gives guarantees to the economic world. As a matter of fact, I think it's very illustrative. But we also want to be aware of the myths that you repeat, never bother to repeat, and that they are absolutely false, and therefore can be disassembled from statements to the same investigation commission. « The king has called to Seat because he is leaving Catalonia. We have heard this, and we continue to hear it, all of a sudden, accusing the king of calling to Seat to say to them: "listen, out of Catalonia; so it turns out that the head of the State did not call to Seat because out of Catalonia. So, that famous trick turns out that it was the trick of one of the more than 1,500 attendees at the reception of October 12th to say – to say – in a corridor, that someone said « What about Seat? Or, the king's call to Seat because he left Catalonia was because a person in a corridor, in a reception, asked, "What about Seat? Certainly, this tells you the person to whom it was attributed that it is said that the king had called to Seat because he was leaving. Get out of my way. More than 36,000_million euros escaped from banking entities... Catalan branches of banking entities. Official data. Two bits more unmountainable. No tricks, no pressure from the government or the crown. That's what they said to the board of inquiry, you shouldn't want to hear it, but that's what they said to you. Ah, but more than that, there was no withdrawal of public funds. Moreover, some entity said that during those days the public foundations grew. Another unmountained myth. They were private depositors, small private depositors who withdrew 36,000_million euros. Nor is the conclusions consistent. I'm done. As he concluded, our conclusion. The application of the Constitution was absolutely essential to restore legal order to Catalonia. The only responsibilities, and it is clear, in the commissions of investigation are to seek responsibilities that you have not wanted to point out either. The only responsibilities are to seek them out in those who, with their actions, generated the legal, social and economic insecurity suffered by the group of Catalans, also, of course, those members of the Bureau of Parliament who are being judged today, precisely, by these facts. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to take a stand on the opinion, Mr Jordi Orobig, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has the following words:
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.70.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, when we come to talk about repression, I would like to have, as many of my colleagues have already had, a record for the reprisald companies who are being tried at the High Court of Justice in Catalonia to defend the rights of the Members of this Parliament. I would also like to express my thanks to the technical team of my parliamentary group: Marc Suarez, Núria Julià, Mercè Espasa, Jaume Martorell, for their never-to-be-recognized task, and to the parliamentary and excellent secretarial company of the committee, Gemma Espigares, who was a participant, together with me, both of the appearances and of the conclusions. And time is up and I won't lose him over those who hold the conclusions as illegal or hold these parliamentary groups as dishonest, when the most honorable in his place would have been to not have intervened in this House, since they haven't worked for a minute on the work of the committee. But it is clear that they do not want to lose the opportunity of the twenty-seconds of media that they can look for their disqualifications from this window. We find ourselves in front of the last chapter of this commission of inquiry, a commission that is framed in its object for two singular elements: the abstention of the people it has purchased, and both the appearances and the incomparencies. In this case, incompatibilities, as has been said, are found in a number of decisions of the Council of State that have been made ad hoc to endorse them, to endorse this fraud in the democracy and in the exercise of the retention of accounts under the argument that the application of Article 155 not rau on the jurisdictional scope of the Government of Catalonia. Is it not the competence of this Parliament that has been dissolved and that its powers have been upheld by a manifestly illegal agreement adopted by another legislative chamber, the Senate, engaging in the abusive application of Article 155? What you want is for us to follow a management, and we don't want to be a management. Speaking of incomparencies, last week we re-examined the archival proceedings for the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Catalonia on the move made by the President of the Parliament. A new show that justice in our country is not the same for all: some to fulfill their duty today are in court and others, incomplicating, are at home laughing at all of us. Finally, if the commission has been marked by incomparencies, also by appearances, by the much dignity that they showed those that were to be compared by videoconference or transferred, in this case, by security forces. Life, however, has a poetic justice, and I want to be left with the feeling that Oriol Junqueras made when he appeared before the committee, when he asked "where are those who promoted the application of Article 155? Most of them out of politics or reading the Mark or making registrars of property or making retaliatory lawyers successful, when they have not shown any professional merit, but they do charge spectacular fees from the revolving doors that they have procured from their parliamentary groups. But, in turn, all these people, all those who did compare, continue to defend the right of Catalonia to be and to exist, and do so in the face of their respective political organizations. What was the application of Article 155? So a flagrant attack on the civil and political rights, individual and collective, of Catalans, which has resulted in many derivatives that have emotional and sentimental implications, but also economic and social, and very transcendent. We don't have to get past the tips. Whoever believes that this committee of inquiry was a tool that was created to support the rebeauties of parliamentary groups that promote independence for the outcome of this process is wrong. We have come to talk about the rights of all, absolutely all the citizens of Catalonia, who have been affected by Article 155; an article 155 which applied by way of a constitutional pact, the 78, which established a minimum agreement between political formations at the time of consolidating a precarious democracy, always in the shadow of the latent threat of the military, and a pact which established a series of commitments, as explained to the committee by the experts of the constitutional law, who were dynamitated by the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the State of Catalonia, which subverted the will of the people of Catalonia expressed not only in this Parliament, but also in reference, and derogated from, to the letter, to the service of the pretensions of the People's Party, which had all been expressed in this Parliament. The origins of this rule have been perverted, that it is necessary to search for them in the Bonn Charter, that is to say, in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany, and, therefore, in violation of the same constituent debates of the Spanish Constitution, which in no case provided for the dissolution of parliaments or the cessation of presidents and vice-presidents, nor of autonomous governments, nor the convening of elections. What the Senate did and then validated the Constitutional Court is to endorse the slogan, which it did not accept in the constituent debates, of the then deputy of the People's Alliance, Manuel Fraga Iribarne. After so many years of death, the mad French minister, still has a great rise not only on the People's Party, but also on the judiciary of this great country that is Spain. This believes for us that the putrefaction of the regime persists in the color of the State, both at high levels of office and at the judiciary. Unlike the CUP, we would like to thank the Generality officials and the directors and secretaries-general who came to his office. For us, who are romanguessing the little part of the cane, it probably meant that the wound in our self-government was not as great as it was supposed to be. We want to keep a record and express the great oblivions for the implementation of Article 155: the third sector. The appearance of the entities served to believe the great pain, the evil that led to the most disadvantaged heads of our society on 155, both in their work and in the viability of so many organizations and entities that they have for the welfare of those who suffer in the first degree the rigors of an economic situation, which is not good for many years. We cannot hear, in this sense, the leaving of functions of the rest of the groups present in this Parliament. We also need to highlight the brutal local economic impact in the area of the Government of Catalonia, that famous report, the 1,800_million euros, import that we mean as the reparation that the Government of Catalonia has to pay to the State as to damage the pacts for the improper application of Article 155, in the terms that it did. The gross war in the field of the economy, the decree of the relocation of enterprises, the intervention of the accounts of the Generalitat, the justification that in doing some great entrepreneurs, above all bankers; still for the dividend, so clear. But this also puts us before a big problem: either the legislative state to the card following the dictate of the big companies or these are folded to the dictate of the state, which still is worse. In any case, 155 has turned out to be a totally ineffective tool to boost independence: it neither changed the Parliament nor changed the Government. And, therefore, there is no solution; for us, the solution is an amnesty law and the call for a self-determination referendum. And, placed in the final consequences, for democratic sanity, so much so that King Philip VI abdicates, for his obvious bet for conflict and confrontation in place of the agreed solution and for the gross economic war against Catalonia that we maintain promoted. On 4 October, the city of Felipe VI made an authoritative speech on the part of the disabled as it was in the legitimate State of Catalonia, which he placed at the point of view and justified police violence against him. That's how the vast majority of Catalonia's citizens feel. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, president – a 59,6_per_cent considers it, literally, a zero to the left and an 80_per_cent to the suspense. Yesterday the Borbo once again taught that his presence in Catalonia as a state is the result of coercion and not consent, with arms and police that discriminate against the citizenry on the basis of the flag they carry. Today Parliament will remind him that after his decision of 4 October the Catalans have no king, that on October 17 he lost any kind of legitimacy to the citizenry, if he had never had. Yesterday he violently imposed his presence on Poblet; today with democracy, debate and vote, we will ratify our self-determination will and also that we follow and not the rule, putting the law of the head of the state, which says who should be the head of the state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. To position herself on the opinion, she has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.72.0	Good morning. Members, Members, also present the conclusions of Junts per Catalunya. We would also point out that we will vote in favour, as we did in the committee, of the conclusions of the Republican Group, of the Popular Unity Candidate, also in those aspects that we have agreed with Catalonia in Comú We can, therefore, also make the same feeling of voting, and we also believe that these different visions should serve to weave a strategy in order to be able to do the proper democratic debate, which is the repte that Catalonia has. In this sense, also thank the company of Junts for Catalonia, President Toni Morral, to the rest of the deputies, but also to the technical team and to the deputies Pep Riera, Albert Batet, Francesc Ten, in Roberto, in Jordi Font, the Anna Grevalosa... And I hope not to leave me any, because they also helped us to the final part of these conclusions, which are more than forty pages. I have to tell you that the claim to initiate this commission of inquiry came at the first meeting of the parliamentary group in Brussels because we believe..., at the request of President Puigdemont, that it was necessary, therefore, to escape and lay lights and figures on the damage caused by the commission of inquiry of 155. It seemed to me, Mr Carrizosa, because it was not only the day that Vice President Junqueras came, and then he left – Councilman Turull was hoping to answer – but you have a way of questioning and then leaving. But you seemed to me to have said that you wanted to challenge and ask President Sánchez to challenge the findings of this investigation committee. So this Member of Parliament and the French Member of the Dalmases, who are the ones who signed the conclusions of Juntes for Catalonia, will reaffirm to us in all and each of the conclusions, without each of their threats that you have made here, because we are exercising our parliamentary right of freedom of expression, freedom of opinion and freedom, obviously, of debate with you, and you seem that, I believe it continues to the phase of continuous threat in this Parliament. Second. The objectives of this committee of inquiry in Parliament, vaguely, were two: first, to discuss constitutionality and the effects of 155 and, therefore, to point out the intervention that these damages entailed. It is worth saying that 155 was the response of the Spanish State before the democratic debate of the citizens of Catalonia, with prisoners and exiles. It was the legal instrument in a strategy of state to remove parliamentary immunity from the president, the government, the members of the Bureau..., that from here we also give them the maximum support. It was, therefore, a state pact. It was more proof of this restrictive interpretation of the Spanish Constitution; when it affects the rights of the Catalan nation, when it affects the national rights of Catalonia it is always interpreted restrictively, the Spanish Constitution. 155 is Spain's new project for Catalonia. We still don't know who Spain's project is for Catalonia, because there isn't. The only project there is repression because it does them for debate, it does them for dialogue. And that's it. You, Congressman Pedret – and you waited for my intervention, because you told me you would come in – you have held us to dishonesty, lack of intellectual honesty. Home, I found it a little strong, because we would have waited for it at the board of inquiry and we would have debated, and he knows we would have debated you and me. Therefore, when you call the dialog, a good place to talk, if it is real, you would have been on the investigation committee, where you and I could have argued in a contradictory way what our plans were and reflected them. And I assure you that this would have been honest. The progressive left we have also seen this project they have for Catalonia, this interpretation they make of Spain, therefore centralist and uniform. Therefore, it is also this lack of political will to negotiate. It was accredited to the Board of Inquiry that neither the declaration of independence nor the declaration of independence would have assumed the call or not of elections, it would have assumed 155, and I do not say it, said President Rajoy in his own book. You too, Mr Santi Rodríguez, when referring to the written conclusions, well, the only written conclusions were yours, because you did not come to the sitting any day and go to present the conclusions. We've changed our positions. Therefore, the only writings were his. We ask, from Junts to Catalonia, the reprobation of President Pedro Sánchez, the reprobation of President Rajoy and Albert Rivera, because they were the drivers, ideals, and those who voted in his parliament, in the Senate also with a series of procedural flaws – but I already know that they are the same – the application of 155. And we're also asking for the reprobation of Philip VI, because 155 can't be heard without his active role endorsing the 3rd of October violence, and therefore, this is a position we maintain. And we also defended that, I mean, 155 is still in force. This is a position close to Junts for Catalonia. We understand that 155 forms part of this false normality of Parliament. Why are we here to debate the monarchy or the self-determination of Catalonia or the other countries of the world? Why? So because 155 is still in force, because it is a lack of democratic quality in the Spanish State to deal with the political conflict in Catalonia. 155 also assumed the lack of judicial independence, and in fact, the proper members who did not compare to the 155 commission took over the Consell d'Etat, which precisely also took part in the Vice President Soraya Sáez de Santamaría. Therefore, we understand that 155 has not left, that the only way it will succeed will be with the absolutation of Catalonia's independence, because the only project that the Spanish State has for Catalonia when it wants to face its political conflict is through repression. And, finally, and the second question was that we look at the report, the aspects related to the damage. You, Mr. Carrizosa, have made reference to dependence. I would have liked you to have come to the third sector entities, and I would have liked you to get, for example, the damage that has had the impact on the emergencies of the residences, on the Health Plan, on public procurement, on subsidies, on the more than 1,800_million euros that has had the economic impact of this 155. For all this, we also want to recognize the pocket of the public workers of the Generalitat that they kept, therefore, the Generalitat to preserve the institution of the Generalitat of Catalonia. We encourage all those people who listen to us to know these conclusions on the server web. Cat, and, above all, know these material damage that has been caused to all of the city. You made reference to his concern about dependence, so these 155 damages were caused to all citizens, independently that voting without Citizens or voting together for the Yes or voting without any parliamentary group. And so, if you'd come to the board of inquiry, I'd probably have known. And finally, he also left without legal capacity to defend the Generalitat with the works of Sixena or in the case of the institute El Palau, of Sant Andreu de la Barca. For all this – and I finish, President – we understand that this 155 of us must serve to draw a strategy of the future, that this 155 will only end with the independence of Catalonia and to deal politically with the conflict that Catalonia has, which is the right to the self-determination of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the Implementation of the 155th Spanish Constitution in Catalonia, I would like to remind you that the vote will take place this afternoon, once the 9th item of the order of the day has been confirmed. [[Antoni Morral and Berenguer ask to speak.]] Why did I ask for the deputy word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.74.0	References..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.75.0	You don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.76.0	...referent, let's say, to an assertion...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.77.0	You don't have the word, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.78.0	...that Mr. Rodriguez has done respects the oblivion of his conclusion. Far from the oblivion, on the contrary, surprise, yes, and I must reaffirm that it is a pleasant surprise that you have made representations after you did not participate in the committee, which meant a contrast that enriched, let us say, what is the debate on the conclusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. As they were coming, the vote will be taken after item 9 of the order of the day. The session is suspected up to two-quarters of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.80.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies and deputies. [[Draft law amending the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the obligation of the previous session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and amending Law 15/2009 of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law]] [[200-00013/12]] Let us resume the session with the fifth item of the agenda, which is the debate on the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary of the Law on the modification of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the compulsory pre-session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and on the amendment of Law 15/2009 of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law. In accordance with Rule 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government called for a single reading before the plenary of the legislative initiative, and according to the criteria laid down for the Bureau, a first debate must be held and a vote must be taken in the plenary, which agrees, if necessary, the processing of the draft law for the single reading procedure. The debate must revolve around the enabling assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure and the general value of the text, opportunity, principles and criteria that inform the proposal, following the rules of the debate of totality. In this first debate, and according to what we agreed on at the Spokesman's Board, parliamentary groups will have a seven-minute turn each and five subgroups. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Government, the Councillor of Justicia, the Lady Esther Capella. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.81.0	Very nice late. Thank you, President. Members, Members, the bill that I am presenting today, relating to the establishment of the pre-session on mediation, is based on two findings that I understand we will all share. On one side, it's obvious that we live in societies every time more complex, where conflicts of all kinds have only grown up. And on the other hand, or on the other side, it is also well known that a very important part of these conflicts could be solved by far more ideal lives than by mechanical recourse to the judicial process. Moreover, in the wake of an administration of collapsing justice, which does not yet see, but goes from the far, among other factors, but that it is also due, this collapsing, to the growth without limit of disputes. While I will insist on one issue: mediation must not be resolved, mediation and other forms of conflict resolution must not come to resolve the col·lapse of the Administration of Justice, it has another purpose that I will explain to them, yet have a European standard framework that clearly bet for mediation as an alternative system of conflict resolution, highly recommended, above all, in disputes of family breakdown. Moreover, it has been found that the practices that seek to encourage the parties to mediate have been insufficient, both because of the lack of knowledge on the part of the citizen about mediation and the need to resolve conflicts between different ways of justice, as well as the right-wing professionals, and even all the judicial staff, therefore, do not know the mediate systems. Among the recommendations formulated for the European institutions, which note the need for Member States to invest more efforts in this field, is the establishment of the mandatory information session in the framework of the judicial process, as well as the desirability of considering mediation at all stages or the whole judicial process, not only in the pre-trial phase, but also in the whole judicial process, especially as previously mentioned, in the area of family law. Unfortunately, for lack of sufficient procedural competence, the Generality cannot subject the exercise of judicial actions with general character to an attempt to mediate or resolve friendly between the parties; that is, we have no jurisdiction over the process. At the same time, it was a long time ago that we had chosen, if we had this possibility, this option, we had chosen to lean and we had certainly leaned towards the name of the "mitimate obligation", that is, to condition the initiation of the judicial process, the judicial process, to an attempt to mediate between the parties. The initiative that I am presenting today, which I am presenting now, has a more modest objective, but at the same time, because of its modesty, does not make it important, since it is intended to establish that participation in a pre-session on the benefits and functioning of mediation has a binding character as long as the same parts have been agreed in a pre-emptive manner as in those circumstances in which the judicial authority believes and considers it appropriate. As they have highlighted the highest judicial institutions in this sense, the fact that they do not attend an information session on mediating prior to the process can come to be regarded as a conduct contrary to the good procedural faith, since it supposes that they reject without ulteriorly an opportunity for justice from a perspective of seeking the best possible solution, in this case, to the conflict situation. The bill, therefore, aims to encourage mediation and to prevent the lack of information and the disconnection of this means of adequate resolution of conflicts that are prone to the parties to the proceedings and the professionals to resort to the path of litigation, to continue in the judicial process. In the face of the judicial conflict with winners and losers, mediation has proven advantages, since it involves and makes responsible the parties to the resolution of the conflicts that affect them and, consequently, it has obtained a greater degree of compliment of the agreements reached, to more than a whole series of advantages that I described to them: to reduce the economic, temporal and emotional costs involved in any judicial process. And let me point out that for me, especially at all possible costs, the emotional ones are the ones who only pay the penalty for this, so, in the media and in the other formulas to resolve the conflicts. It represents, therefore..., and that is why: it does not decongest the judicial collapse, but it represents a paradigm shift in the resolution of conflicts, in the resolution of differences. This objective is pursued with general character, but with special attention to family conflicts affecting infants, in keeping with the higher interest represented by infants and their right to maintain personal relations with their parents and other family members. We are here before a new application of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children, which obliges States to take all appropriate legislative and administrative measures to ensure that children are fully protected and cared for for, taking into account, above all, their rights and dues, the dues of their parents and seas. To this end, the specifics of the pre-mediation session are introduced in the articles of our Civil Code regulating guardianship and, more concretely, judicial detention; the definitive measures in case of separation, divorce or nullity of marriage or couples; disagreements in the exercise, in this case, of parental and martial power, and family mediation in general. In addition to these forecasts in concrete areas of family law, the draft law establishes the general rule of the prior cessation of mediation by means of an amendment to Article 11 of Law 15/2009 of 22 July 2009 on mediation in the sphere of private law. It is anticipated here that, by means of this previous cessation, the parties are advisors on value, advantages and principles and characteristics of mediation. Depending on this knowledge and the concrete case, the parties decide whether or not they choose to mediate. So, if the shares are agreed, the pre-session can extend to the exploration of the conflict that affects them. It is, therefore, a matter of encouraging that the parties that choose to mediate can start it as soon as possible, unlike what happens in the present, where there is always a period of time, which can be determinant, between the attendance at an information session and the initiation of a mediation process. As I have advanced, participation in this pre-mediation session will be mandatory for the parties when this has been agreed beforehand or when this is done by the judicial authority, if the circumstances of the case make it advisable, with the aim of reaching an agreement. In this assumption, it is to say, when the pre-session is obligatory, it is expressly foreseen that the lack of assistance, as previously pointed out, is not submissive to confidentiality and must be communicated to the judicial authority. The current mediation law is also modified in this new project to extend the object of the Center for Mediation of the Private Law of Catalonia, not only to promote and manage mediation, but also to promote and administer other alternative or appropriate methods of conflict resolution, such as negotiation, conciliation, expert review, collaborative law or arbitration. Similarly, the name change of the Media Centre of the Private Law of Catalonia is proposed for the "Media Centre of Catalonia", which is clearer and more suited to the functions assigned to it by the Department of Justice and the same centre, and more consistent with the fact that mediation and other methods of analysis can be used in all spheres, and also in all jurisdictional orders. We are, therefore, before a concrete measure, even as I said, modest but recognizable, that they intend to broaden the knowledge of mediation on the part of the citizenry, so that they can resort more often and find a more humane, civilized and effective solution to their conflicts; a measure that seeks to reduce the judicialization of conflicts and promote the culture of negotiation, dialogue and agreement, which they understand more necessary than ever in all spheres of life. With this new legal framework, the achievement of the stated objective will depend very directly, therefore, basically on all the professionals involved and, in particular, on the advocacy, the demand and the judicial staff. On the Government's part, we will continue to make the necessary efforts to extend this culture, this new way of hearing the resolution of conflicts. And we will not just leave it with the right words, but that the commitment of the Department of Justice is already advancing, therefore, to deal with the increase in expenditure that will suppose that the interested parties can enjoy this pre-session on mediation in a free way, so that you do not assume an additional cost to anyone. The Government has requested that this bill be dealt with by Parliament for a single reading, understand that it pursues an object that can be widely shared, in particular for the benefits it can have in the family-wide processes, from the perspective of the best interests of infants, and because it is a text, if it is allowed, also, reduced standard, integrated for a few requirements, that do not intend to regulate the matter in a complete and general way, but to introduce concrete improvements in favour of the culture, such as the dialogue and agreement to which it refers. I repeat this petition and ask them to support the bill, stressing the urgency of giving passes in favour of greater capacity of understanding between people, to reduce confrontation – before they know it – between those who win the plethora and those who lose it, and to allow the courts to function and work effectively and to focus on those matters that really require their intervention. In mediation, the person, the part, is part of the solution. In the past few weeks, after seeing the Covid-19 pandemic practically paralyzed the courts and multiplied the conflicts of all kinds, we had occasion to contrast the content of this bill with various parliamentary groups. Thanks to this dialog, some proposals have been put forward that improve the text that, from my position, I have no problem that they are incorporated during the term of the papers. By the way, I think we should give ourselves the opportunity to introduce to it the best we all consider necessary. In terms of a legislative initiative in favour of people, and mainly of civil nature, I also trust that I can obtain the widest possible support of this chamber. I am convinced that, at the very least, the institutions of this country need to have a comprehensive, coherent and determined public policy in the area of dialogue on conflict management, as well as a general regulation of prevention, conflict management and conflict resolution. We're going to have a lot of decision, a lot of dialogue and a lot of consent, but we need to get out of here, and we need to do better. Now, as I said, we are ahead of a more partial initiative – I would say ‘modest' – but encouraged also by this same desire to promote dialogue and agreement, to reduce confrontation and judicialization of conflicts, with all the advantages that can derive from it, especially for infants, for the rest of people and, ultimately, for all folds and for our society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.82.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, and to position himself, has the word in the first place, on behalf of Grupo Parlamentari de Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Manuel Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.83.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs. Capella, what makes you think that all the judicial collapse of more than 75,000 trials without holding that we had pending to date and those that are expected to have in Catalonia in the coming months will be resolved with some retouching in four articles of the Civil Code of Catalonia and with five retouchings in the Mediation Act? The truth is that I think it must be borne in mind that Catalonia..., well, in this case, the rights and freedoms of citizens are not to be protected because of this congestion and the judicial collapse. And in this sense we see no action that has been taken, seriously, by your department. In fact, the truth is that we have seen or observed, quite confused, a headline saying that Catalonia calls for out-of-court mediation to be mandatory to prevent the collapse of the courts. Well, we're talking about it's just a previous session, an information session where we'll talk about the goodness of mediation. But we obviously believe that the judicial system must equip itself with the means necessary to deal with the situation and the effects of Covid-19, and mainly because, of course, providing the judicial means with sufficient resources means providing social justice and also defending abuses, especially the abuses of the powerful, strengthening justice and, of course, avoiding these endless waiting lists within the justice system. I also say to him: we are not against these changes, but I also say to him that he does not sell us air; do not tell us that with this rule he will force out-of-court mediation to those who go to court to find a solution to a dispute. A prior information session is not an out-of-court mediation, nor is it mandatory. The crisis and lack of means threaten to bring the judicial collapse to the commercial courts. I don't say it, two days ago the judge of the Court 13 Mercantile of Barcelona said, and spoke of a saturation that can lead to a collapse of more than five years; more than five years, Mrs.Capella. Apart from the 75,000 pending trials not held in Catalonia. Other Catalan judges call for reinforcements and warn of the dramatic collapse in social and commercial courts due to the crisis of the Covid-19. I think it is important to stress these facts because, given that with this placebo effect presented to us today with this Law of mediation, it is important to remember the situation that is suffering justice in Catalonia, and specifically the most serious milestones or situations that are suffering justice. First of all, of course, the material means. Social courts, civil, administrative courts, family courts, commercial courts, all are going to suffer a very important collapse, especially those who are reviewing the issue of ERW or ERW, creditor competitions and insolvency, divorces..., i.e. claims of all kinds. And this, obviously, if you don't have the right means... there will be no justice or social justice. Then another important issue is the question of the law... well, of the electronic judicial record. In fact, Barcelona's lawyers and prosecutors were betting on the necessary digitization of the courts and the electronic judicial file to overcome this collapse. We see no plan to deal with this judicial collapse. They come to introduce us to this law of alternative dispute resolution method, but that is what comes to be an accessory issue. Indeed, justice is the main thing, and the right means must be provided. Other issues. Newly created courts. We have been waiting since last November for only two of the eight newly created courts, namely two social ones, to be established. We are waiting for different courts to see if they work, and, obviously, compared to other autonomous communities, Catalonia, as always, is on the line in justice. Another issue that you do not deal with or avoid dealing with is that 60 per cent of judges' vacancies for sovereignist harassment are already concentrated, and that, of course, judges have become an independentist objective. I should like to know what measures they have taken to reverse this situation and to protect judges, judges, prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice, in particular to provide an adequate and safe working environment for all legal operators. Well, you came to say in one of the news that they published that the courts should be the last option, but the last option should be for you, because in principle..., the last option for the resolution of conflicts – I explain myself better – since, obviously, if the parties want to go to judicial proceedings, they should do so, obviously. This is going to be a smokescreen, because this isn't going to solve the judicial collapse. Moreover, it even becomes, this reform that you propose..., the reading becomes confusing, to some extent redundant, because in the end the parties if they want to submit to mediation do so, they do not need a law to force them; in the end the agreement of the parties prevails. And you also focus on it, you ask it on family matters, when we see that unfortunately it is also not that in situations such as inheritance, foundations and associations, within the statutes of the entities, or even in problems between neighbours and in communities of owners, it is also not very common for such methods of conflict resolution. I think it's important to remember. Anyway, we have a very serious, very worrying situation of judicial collapse. We believe that in addition to other methods of conflict resolution, as I have said... they are accessories, but the main thing has to be justice and provide adequate means. And we have not heard from you any plans to reverse this situation, to deal with all the judicial collapse that comes upon us, these 75,000 lawsuits that we have pending to resolve, plus those that are going to come until the end of the year, and especially the moratorium on creditor competitions and everything that it provokes thereafter, haven't we? Finally, what we have come to say to you is that you will not solve anything with a touchdown. We are not against those touches, but with some touches you are not going to solve anything. You must act quickly, and if you do not do so you will aggravate the problem. They are selling it to us as a solution to all the problems, we have been listening to that canteen during various commissions and in some media, but the truth is that they have been defrauding all Catalans for years, and they must be recognized their great ability not to do the work they have to do. In any case, I remind you of what you should do to resolve the situation of justice. And, first, it would be to give justice the material means and the proper staff. Secondly, to enable and develop the pending courts, to support all public workers in their field, and especially those who are threatened and coerced by their work independently. And then, thirdly, also innovate in the judicial file. And, ultimately, respect the laws, Mrs Capella – respect the laws – which is the first of democracy, and respect, of course, the Catalans as a whole to work for the common good. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And, ultimately – and I finish – his lack of commitment to justice has been really disturbing. We have rarely seen how someone has done so little for justice as you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.84.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra spoke. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.85.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, if in any way we can all agree in the field of justice is the need to reduce the litigation of our country. In fact, if we review the data that the memory of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia offers us, in concrete terms the comparison of 2017 on 2018, we find that the evolution of subjects that they entered the courts is positive: there is an increase, especially in criminal and civil orders, and if we focus on civil jurisdiction we see that they entered more than 7 and a half percent of subjects in 2018 respect to 2017. We must bear in mind that these data do not contemplate, nor can they do, the situation that is present in the present, with the consequences in personal relationships, and also in the Administration of Justice, of the Covid-19. The social and economic crisis caused by the pandemic, which can lead to changes in the situation of people and consequences, for example, in the appropriate regulators in cases of separation or divorce, can further increase the number of individuals who can get to justice. This situation will worsen the lis pendensity that has been due to the closure, except in the cases of essential services, which the Administration of Justice has suffered during this period. Therefore, it is more necessary than ever to encourage measures so that the conflicts that arise in society can be resolved for other lives than to attend the courts. This way should be – and the Councillor said – the last resort for those people who with conflicting interests do not initially agree. Obviously, mediation is not the solution to the col·lapse that sees justice in Catalonia, and therefore it is certain that its department should work because that was not so, it should lay down human and material means because that was not so. But we believe that these measures that make this change, this bill of law, are positive. Catalonia has been a referent in alternative conflict resolution measures such as mediation. In making a recognizance a few days ago the Minister of Justice, once he was committed to working from the Government of Spain in this direction. The Law 15/2009, of 22 July, of mediation in the field of private law, modified the Law of 2001, of 15 March, also of family mediation of Catalonia, which at the time came from the office of the legislator of the Family Code. The law of 2001 represented an important tape in the introduction of the mediation procedure in the legal treatment of family crises. Until then, only France had specific legislation in force in Europe. Therefore, from 2001 to the present, we have had the legislation in the media, even though, as we recognize the same statement of reasons – and the adviser also told us – this legislation has not been enough for itself to have its practical practice as a conflict resolution mechanism and to prevent these from reaching the judicial sphere. Knowledge of mediation continues to be scathing, and information does not go up to the possible parts or professionals of the right, which negatively affects mediation services. So there's a way to encourage the use of mediation, and the bill that we're debating today went on this line. As it is intended to remember in the same motius exposition, mediation has advantages in time, economics, and also emotional costs. And it's true, possibly these, the emotional costs, are the ones we have to work harder to avoid. And this is especially valuable in cases of family conflicts and which they have as their object, therefore, minor. The project that is presented outlines the obligation, if so believed by the judicial authority or the parties, of a pre-mediation session, a session in which the parties will be informed of what the mediation means, of its functioning and of its benefits. And it does it by modifying a series of articles from the Civil Code of Catalonia, and also from the Law of Mediation, as well as introducing a fourth additional provision of the same law. The project also makes use of certain terminological changes – to change the expression "incapacitated for person with judicially modified capacity" – and to change the name of the Media Centre of Dret Privat de Catalunya to the Media Centre of Catalonia. And this point may be considered smaller, but we believe that it is not, because the fact of extending its name by eliminating 'private right' makes it possible to mediate, as is also said in the statement of reasons, in other areas and jurisdictional orders, which we think we need to explore, especially because of the situation we currently have, and which in any case is to be circumscribed in the area of competition, which is appropriate. For all that we have been disgruntled, our group has deemed necessary the modification that the Government has submitted both of the Civil Code of Catalonia and of the Law of Mediation in the field of private law, so as to introduce the pre-mediation session as required of procibility in the areas you foresee. And we also consider its processing to be appropriate for a single reading because, for one thing, the moment when we find ourselves making it essential to take measures to encourage the resolution of conflicts outside the judicial sphere, and for the other, the modification that is made is sufficiently limited and defined in order to be subject to this processing, as called for by the very Rules of Parliament. With regard to the content, what are the points that we think can be changed what can be better with this bill? To our understanding, it is necessary to guarantee the equality of the conditions of the shares and the total knowledge of their rights and obligations when they come to this means to resolve their conflicts. Therefore, from the time of the pre-session the parties must be able to be assisted by their cast or cast. This assistance should be necessary if the parties so require or if the judicial authority so provides, and it must always be fully developed in accordance with the principles of mediation and equality between the parties. Therefore, our group will present papers – in fact, it is true, the councillor said before, we could not speak, and we like it, in this sense, in this department – in this sense. Finally, I would like to reiterate the conviction of our group that there is a need to bet on mediation and other alternative methods in order to be able to resolve conflicts and prevent them from going to court, without at any time implying a minority of effective judicial protection. In Catalan we say – before we talked about it with Congressman Pedret – that it is more a bad deal than a good one. I think we're gonna have to be able to rewrite that saying. We have to work to strengthen the structures so that the conflicting parts can reach good agreement without having to arrive at a plet, which always ends up feeling, for one part or even for the two, a bad solution. And this too, let's say, good solution could extend to other areas of Catalan political life. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.86.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Correspond now to the deputy Yolanda López, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.87.0	Thank you, President. Members, Councillor, Members..., today the Government presents to us the Project of Law on the modification of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the obligatory status of the pre-session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and to the amendment of Law 15/2009, of 22 July, of mediation in the sphere of private law, with the « tram 200-00013/12..., measures that we consider may be beneficial for the decongestion and effectiveness of the courts, but we would have liked it not to be processed by one reading and debated in paper, since we understand that this law should have a space of participation and reflection, with experts and collectives, to be a law as complete and adjusted to the needs as possible. It is not necessary to be a legal expert to know that the functioning of justice in Catalonia and the State is far from responding to the minimum requirements of a public service of this importance in a democratic and rule of law state. Effective judicial guardianship is granted in a particularly slow manner and, as the maxim says that slow justice is less justice, we can conclude that it is unfair. In addition, the lengthening of time causes undeniable suffering not only in the parties but in third parties; third parties in this case are in the family and especially vulnerable to children, minors. Therefore, as long as we do not achieve quality minimums in the service acceptable to the countries around us in Europe, it is good to welcome other measures that protect all parties and third parties, but without losing sight of the objective: an effective, friendly, independent, resolutive and, above all, just justice. Overcoming the decongestion of the courts must remain the great goal of a government that has in the defense of justice for all of its commitments. In this sense, mediation can shorten this process and at the same time make the least traumatic for people who have to live the trance of litigation. But we insist: mediation must be an aid to the judicial system, but guarantees must continue to prevail in the resolution of the conflict, cannot be a mere alternative, let alone a patch. Recourse to mediation cannot under any circumstances imply forced judicialization, never an imposition on the parties, and there must always have been an act that clearly grants the free and spontaneous will to submit to it. The system should ensure that mediation is not presented as a minor evil in a collapsed justice scenario or as a court imposition against the will of one or both parties. Mediation must be agreed by the parties as a means of resolving their conflict, through the virtues of the institution and projection as an effective, just and respectful solution to overcome the conflict. We must ensure that mediation does not lead to further delay in the process, and we have already made it clear that, as the Councillor has already said, we will be making amendments,'stresses, so that this does not happen. Within the scenario of saturation, it must be recognized that there are judicial bodies that, against everything and everyone, continue to function with a certain normality, thanks to the professionalism and responsibility of the people of the Administration of Justice, who stand out in their functions, so it must be ensured that mediation does not have the opposite effect to the desired one. In this regard, care should be taken to ensure that it is not used fraudulently to further extend the procedure, preventing it from being used in tactics of procedural filibusterism, and to provide for the identification and harm of those who do not believe, if this is the case. It must therefore ensure that the mediation service must be provided not only with guarantees of professionalism, rigour and humanity, but also with the necessary agility. The intervention of a private mediator, at the discretion of most legal professionals, can be harmful in cases where violence occurs, either within the couple or in relation to third persons in the family circle. Consequently, no attempt should be made to arbitrate conflicts with violence. The intervention of the Prosecutor's Office and the continued judicial guardianship become inseparable in these circumstances, so it must be made clear that the mediation we are considering here will not interfere in disputes contaminated by violence. We will also present ‘stresses so that this does not happen. It must also always be provided from a gender perspective, so that within the excellence of the service it is necessary for the professional who provides it and the principles of the procedure to be inspired by the principles of equality and non-discrimination, the exclusion of prejudice, and to avoid any victimization of women. That is why we believe it is necessary and we will support the amendment of the Catalan Civil Code, which not only allows, but also encourages the use of mediation in family conflicts, but we must remember, Madam Councillor, that the aim of your department is to ensure that the effective judicial protection of the rights of citizens is always unquestionable, and that justice must restore the trust of society, that citizens will see again in the courts a public service that with efficiency, transparency and speed will solve the innumerable problems that arise in social coexistence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.88.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.89.0	Thank you very much. Honourable Counselor of Justice and colleague and companion Esther Capella, first of all, we wanted to thank your department for this regulatory change. We have already argued that we will vote in favour of the single reading as well as the divendres, in the hope of seeing papers, but in any case what is normal in the form of a modification that is presented today. And we want to take advantage of the intervention we are making at this time to give a compliment to what you ask from a point of view of processing, which is to pronounce on the one reading, but also to make some references to what you have not just convinced us about what you are presenting, and you will see the counselor who does not refer to the body of the norm, but to the exhibition of motius. And now we explain it or try to transfer it to the assembly of deputies and deputies. You can see the Members and the Members who at the presentation of the motion there is as an initial permanent reference to the institutions of the European Union. Respectfully, the first thing we want to say is that someone tells us, about the actions, there are already administrative acts or feelings of any institution of the European Union, where the media is. It would be very interesting if we could go to mediate the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, those which attempt against the rights of workers or, at last, some action by the Council or the Commission. And, therefore, what we want to move with is that, obviously, for us, the institutions of the European Union are never a good example when we talk about mediation. Also because we have a legal culture for the right of the family, the states and the nations of southern Europe, absolutely different from the majority conception that exists in the institutions of the European Union, where the Anglo-Saxon right, therefore, has done most, to explain it in a very global way. And the third: because there is a moment in the presentation of motius that expressly refers to a judgment, that of March 18, 2010, where you qualify because the mediation can be fixed in a mandatory way, and considers that this does not violate the right to effective judicial protection. And now we're making it clear that what's being raised by the department is not that it's mandatory; we're very clear. What is proposed is that it may be mandatory if there is a magistrate who fixes it, or a magistrate, a judge, a judge, or a judge, or that it may be mandatory if there has previously been submissiveness on the part of the parties to this obligation. But in that case, the judgment we are referring to, of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 18 March 2010, does enable mediation to be compulsory, and considers that this does not violate the right to effective judicial protection. This parliamentary sub-group, for its political culture and for its political-legal culture, we do believe that this could be an atemptator against the right of effective judicial protection. For some procedures that were binding on us, it would be, but for some concrete ones that may be binding on us, it is. And we wanted to move it this way, to make a distinction about some of the things that come up today. Also, and we want to transfer it to the department with all kinds of respect and to the councilwoman, we have had the feeling that there was a certain sense in the motius presentation of a certain sense of direction where the letters and letters were transferred to the letters and letters of responsibility about not always informing their clients, their defenders, their representatives, about the mediation mechanisms. This is a widely held opinion, that lawyers and lawyers do not want to mediate or agree, and we always want to make judgments or to have feelings, and how perfectly and in the first person has known the same Councillor of Justice, so it is not well that way. It would be good for the people and the people to reach an agreement many times, to find extrajudicial solutions to the conflict, but when we are very clear that this is not going to be possible, obviously, we are taking away the media. It's not contrary to what it's about. And last but not least, in relation to what we really should be saying now, if there really can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be-there can be. The first, that of the nature of which is being raised, and what we have today on the table is a very concrete question, mediation, which is expressed with different normative changes, and even different standards, but the object is very clear, that it is mediation and how we move forward with mediation. And the second, as to the possibility that it is done quickly; there are eight articles, it's simplicity, which is what the Rules of Parliament tell us, simplicity, and, even though they are eight from a quantitative point of view, from a qualitative point of view are articles of simple modification. And, therefore, we would also vote in favour of it, for a point of order, because it is a supposition that fits perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.90.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.91.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies, councillor. Well, that's it, isn't it? But it's true that this legal change follows a little bit the edge of the board of all legal operators when you have a client, and it's better a bad deal than a good one, isn't it? And I think it's good to introduce the figure of mediation, I think helping to re-establish judicial conflict in family matters is important, especially because in the end, in the family sphere, minors are the most affected by this kind of conflict. It is true that the contentious in the end are not the most numerous nor are they responsible for the judicial collapse, nor much less, but we think it is a good tool. To get to know her with this pre-session, let's just say, it's not mandatory, but yes... well, yes, it does open the door to try to bring another solution than in a plethora, we think it's positive. Why in the end a breakup, separation or divorce that necessarily involves restructuring all family relationships, right? , and also as it relates that new environment and that family nucleus, where the family members sometimes suffer more from the account, especially the minor ones. And it's true that the high conflict that still gets worse is that new family bond that has been created with this separation or divorce, and in fact, affects up to the point that they have studied that precisely the minors who have a high family conflict usually also, sometimes, either suffer or are perpetrators, therefore, of actions such as bullying, right? , to set an example. We only find one thing missing, and it's that, as we were pioneers in Catalonia with a pilot parental coordination program, I didn't introduce myself, taking advantage of this legal change, this figure. Why? – Now the counselor does so with the head [[the speaker laughs]] ...It's not the same, mediation is not the same as parental coordination. Parental coordination, therefore, is intrajudicial, that is to say, you may have already tried mediation and after being immigrating from a judicial conflict and making use of this parental coordination, so for many things, but, for example, for the compliment of the sentences; this also implies less judicial conflict at the time of nine judicial measures, but it is also a figure who gathers and gives recollection to the judge at his time, right? And we believe that, according to the pioneers with a pilot program in Catalonia, it is a waste of opportunity that we have not taken advantage of this good experience, for this modification of the Civil Code, and also introduce, as another measure of conflict resolution, let's say, not judicial this figure. Despite this, we consider the modifications to be quite clear. It is true that we have some doubts in some articles, especially those that refer, therefore, to the occasional conflicts of parental authority between parents. We don't see very clearly when they are occasional, because they are not limited in time and, in change, they are limited in time when they are recurrent. We believe that it leaves the door open to a situation of possible vulnerability and, go, without term or end, that we believe it is dangerous, precisely for this reason: to try to give solutions to family conflicts, you cannot leave the door open to not putting an end to a totally extraordinary situation, which is to give only the country empowered to one of the parents. We're going to submit papers, and, despite that, I did want to reflect on the counselor, and that's: that's fine, but justice needs more; and you know it as the counselor, and also as the lawyer. Since the year 96, which has been the actual transfer of staff and material from the Administration of Justice to Catalonia, you will be the most profitable. We have a fault, it's true, that it's chronic already of justices, but they do the favor: now that you are members of a government and that you have direct dialogue, instead of these months of dialog, they intend to manage. I already know that the seventy won't give it to them, the seventy of their judges who are needed won't give it to them, but do the favor of pressure, because the judicial timetable in Catalonia – like everything else, huh? But especially in Catalonia, which is where we are – it's very complicated, and Covid has still made one of the classic tales of justice worse, but it's not as usual as we get used to it, and it's the hardening of the judicial resolution of conflicts, which makes living together so much, and also a democratic system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobig has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.93.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, Members of Parliament, today we are discussing a draft law amending the Civil Code of Catalonia and, thus, the amendment of Law 15/2009, of mediation in the field of private law, the object of which, in the end, is to promote mediation in the field of family conflicts. With the approval of the bill, the Department of Justice will complement another of the objectives of the legislature, to which we must add the modification of the Civil Code in the matter of succession, for which it makes the discrimination suffered by people with sensory disabilities. This legislative arrival will also be completed with the Proposition of the Law of Urgent Measures in the matter of contention of yields in the contracts of housing leases, in which we must congratulate and aggravate the perseverance of the Councillor of Justicia, in overcoming the lack of validation for this legislative chamber, for pure political reasons, of a decree promoted in this field. This draft law therefore sees an ingenious, quantitative and qualitative legislative arrival in which, fortunately, I have enjoyed the confidence of the parliamentary groups I have been a part of. More than five years, two legislatures, that of illusion, with Councillor Mundó, Carles Mundó, and that of repression, with today Councillor Esther Capella. Two legislatures that some, the usual, have denounced as lost, because they say that we were only interested in independence, not the progress of the country. And reality, coughing, denies these claims. The prison center of Barcelona, the Model, has been closed, a historical claim of the city of Barcelona and of all the democrats of our country. The Civil Code of Catalonia was completed with the sixth book, relating to bonds and contracts, and became one of the most valued and prestigious codes in Europe. The second and fourth books of the Civil Code have been modified to regulate digital wills, and the traditional timeline between law and reality has been explored. The Register of Stable Couples of Catalonia has been regulated. The Law on the Legal Reparation of the Victims of the Franchise has been promoted and the nearly 64,000 war councils promoted for the Francoism celebrated between 1938 and 1978 have been annulled, an initiative which obtained a favourable vote on the integrity of the Members of this Parliament. This legislature has already been amended by a quarter of the Civil Code to ensure equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. We could talk about many other initiatives or policies, but today it is up to us to focus on a new legislative tool that is put at the service of the citizens of this country: mediation in the area of certain family conflicts. This bill seeks, in short, to promote in the area of family conflicts that families choose to mediate at the time of resolving them, before for a judicial process, many times a painful journey and which leaves lasting wounds in all those involved, apart from an important private economic cost and public resources. Beyond facilitating mediation, the modification of up to four articles of the Civil Code which are subject to this Parliament's consideration have to do with the scope of guardianship, providing that the judicial authority may derive a preliminary session on mediation of mandatory character so that the value, advantages, principles and characteristics of mediation are known, in the case of various persons who wish to assume guardianship. In the area of separation regulation, divorce and parenting, it provides that the appropriate regulator may include a mediation submission agreement and other alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. In the specific area of mediation in the process, establish a pre-trial session on mandatory mediation for the parties, which may be agreed by the judicial authority and which may involve prolonging the conflict for the way of mediation, as I agree with the parties, but the unwarranted lack of assistance to the pre-trial cessation is not subject to confidentiality and must be communicated to the judicial authority. In the area of disagreements in the exercise of parental authority, which parents may voluntarily subdue to mediation, and, also, may be the judicial authority that sends them to the pre-mandatory session, because they know their bonds. The bill also amends four articles of Law 15/2009, mediating in the area of private law. For what it does in Article 11, it includes the pre-mandatory session, the unwarranted lack of assistance, is not subject to confidentiality and must also be communicated to the judicial authority. For what it does in Article 20, change the name of the Centre de Mediació de Dret Privat de Catalunya, which is renamed « Centre de Mediació de Catalunya. For what it does in article 22.d, strengthen the control skills of the Catalonian Media Centre at the time of aging because the tasks of the media professionals complement with their obligations of informing the client and complimenting the laws and codes of ethics. He added an additional provision, the fourth of the Law, to promote the obligation of professionals, both professionally and privately, to promote mediation and other out-of-court forms of conflict resolution. And finally, including an additional provision that newly implies, I insist, the name change of the Center of Mediation of Dret Privat de Catalunya, because it goes on to be called « Center of Mediation of Catalonia, which allows to open the object of the Center of Mediation to other areas that do not strictly follow this. In short, a legislative initiative that man could hear less but that gives answer to the necessary transposition of community directives. On the assumption that it concerns us, Directive 52 of 2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, and the resolutions of the European Parliament for its implementation of 13 September 2011 and 12 September 2017. A legislative amendment, that of the promotion of the extra-judicial resolution of conflicts, totally necessary for the scene of judicial collapse of the Administration of Justice, which must add to the traditionally indigestible number of subjects, is to say, the so-called "litigation rate", the situation generated by the paralysis of the Administration of Justice during the period of the state of alarm and the predictable allusion of disputes that the economic and social derivatives of the Covid-19 will end up with the jurisdictional organs of this country. In short, and therefore, she will advise, congratulations and many thanks for thinking about the welfare of the citizens of this country and for equipping us with tools to meet the needs of the time we are living. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.95.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you will advise, counsel, a previa: this intervention corresponds to making it to the deputy of our group, Mrs Elena Fort, who is in fact the author of the intervention, and, well, for an alien matter to her will – not hard – so it has been impossible for her to come; therefore, I will limit myself to asking what her intervention is. There's a curse – I'm sure they know it – that you say you have lawsuits and wins, and we can't forget that these sayings and curses always have a real basis, no matter what. Justice in capitals, understood and considered as a foundation of the state of law and as the bulwark of individual and collective rights, guarantees our condition as citizens and, therefore, equality before the law. It is as justice works that a state should be prepared, just, advanced, democratic and right. But this justice sometimes, and for many different reasons, cannot give an adequate response to the citizen. Our country has a essentially slow justice, both to make decisions and to make them complete – well, in general, and for those who are not independent, of course – and this slowness results in an obvious lack of effectiveness. This general situation, which is already harmful to the citizen, is more serious in the area of family law, where conflicts of high personal complexity are resolved and which are less affected. Cal, then, seek solutions and that these solutions remain as effective as possible. At the end of the 20th century in Europe, the mediation system had been in an incipient way as the formula for resolving family conflicts, understand mediation as a method of resolving conflicts on the part of them, voluntarily and with the help of an impartial mediator, seek a solution to the problem. Already in 1998 the Council of Europe made a resolution that postulated its use, and crazy Catalonia, together with France, that implements the first use of mediation. And by the year 2001 the Family Mediation Law of Catalonia was approved. The necessary updating and adaptation to the legislation, taking into account European Directive 2008/52 of 23 April 2008 on the settlement of disputes in the field of civil and commercial rights, required a new law which, in the second phase, did not have to be extended to cover the area of private relations, beyond the strictly familiar ones, which was adopted in 2009. And in the third phase line, and so as to give a new impetus to the figure of mediation, two years ago the Department of Justice launched a firm bet to deepen in mediation as a complementary tool to the judicial system for the resolution of private conflicts, essentially in the area of family law, initiating the processing of a draft law amending the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia and the Law 15/2009, of 23 July, mediating in the field of private law. And it's this bill of law that's presented for approval in this House. A legal change that is a step further in the implementation of mediation as a pre-eminent figure in the resolution of personal conflicts and that brings two important advantages: the first, the judicialization of the modes of management and resolution of conflicts and the judicial discharge of cases; the second, making it possible to obtain responsible solutions, self-managed and effective in conflicts, which ensure a later compliment and preserve the future relationship of the parties. They are the parties that make the decision consensually, which, unlike the judicial process, does not see them imposed by a third party, which makes it easier to complete. The draft law is essential to establish how the information session on mediation is mandatory in certain family conflicts, especially those involving minors. I will not expand on the breakdown of the concrete legal changes that have already been made for the Council's presentation; indeed, in a new way, I would like to highlight the importance of this new regulation, as long as the mandatory nature of the pre-session allows both legal operators and the citizens themselves to know the figure and choose to use it, which is essential in order to encourage it. Without being known, people won't use it; it's as simple as that. Finally, it is necessary to explain why the unique reading process is: man is aware of the effects that the Covid-19 pandemic and confinement have had on personal relationships, especially family members. The data are very clear: an increase in divorce consultations in a 50_per_cent, on the custody of minors, relations of veneration and personal conflict in general. Neither is the fact that the Administration of Justice, already coll·lapsed, once again has worked, does so with a double delay: the existing and the new. And, therefore, our conflicts have few possibilities to be resolved in a prudent time, even if they are dealing with minor conflicts. Already in a time of pandemic, from the government it was understood that mediation had to be one of the necessary measures to resolve the situation of the Administration of Justice, for which it was created a free mediation service, with very good practical results. And he also understood that he must become the effective tool of the future both in the short term, in the post-Covid-19 phase, as well as in a permanent way, in the long term. It is therefore necessary that the changes in the draft law be effective as soon as possible, without the processing of an ordinary procedure, which would extend in excess of its application. That's why we support both the content and the processing of the law in a one-reading procedure, convinced that in the future no one can say: "You have a media and win it, because it will be all those who have intervened, accepted its outcome, those who will win it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.96.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, the record that the vote will take place in a final term this late, after item 9 of the order of the day. Therefore, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the proposal for direct and read-only processing before the plethora of the bill of urgent measures in the matter of yield content in housing leases. According to Rule 138.2 of the Rules, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed have called for the processing... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is that another point? [[Pause.]] Actually, there's another unique reading, and I was coming. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We'll have to do it, too, actually, Congressman, huh? [[Proposition of Law from the exemption of co-payment to the minor guardians for the Administration and from the amendment of Law 14/2010, from the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence]] [[202-00070/12]] But in any case, let's go by order. And the point of the order of the day is the debate of the proposal for processing directly and in single reading before the Ple of the Law Proposal from the exemption of the co-payment to the minor guardians for the administration and the amendment of the Law 14/2010, from the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group called for a single reading procedure before the plenary of the legislative initiative, and, according to the criteria laid down for the Bureau, a first debate and vote must be taken because the plenary agreement, if any, the single reading procedure is to be processed. The debate has to turn, you know, around the enabling assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules and the general appreciation of the text, the opportunity, the principles and the criteria that inform the proposal, following the rules of the debate to the totality. First of all, he will speak to present the proposal, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi de la Calle. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.97.0	Thank you, President. The Parliamentary Group of Citizens has tabled this amendment of the Children and Adolescents Act with a very clear objective, which is to restore the rights of the most vulnerable among the vulnerable, returning to the orphans who have been protected by the Generalitat the amount of their orphan's pensions that has remained for years the DGAIA. This law consists of a single article, which calls for pensions to cease to be affected, and most importantly, a provision aimed at reimbursing all orphan pensions to their legitimate owners. Although the first problem has recently been remedied in the accompanying law, the most important thing remains to be done, which is to restore to its legitimate owners the money that has been taken from them for eight years, something that we can leave solved this very Friday if this Chamber today approves the single reading procedure. To situate ourselves, we are talking about children who were orphaned, without extended family and, therefore, became protected by the Generalitat. What does that mean? They are children who have lost their parents and who had no one, absolutely no one, who could exercise their custody or guardianship. They had been left alone in the world, and until 2012 in Catalonia, at the age of eighteen, they were returned the amounts of their orphan's pensions. In 2010, the Law on the Rights and Opportunities of Children and Adolescents was adopted, a very important and fundamental law for the equal development of children in Catalonia. However, that law included an additional seventh provision that gave rise to different interpretations. In 2012, the government of Artur Mas interpreted it restrictively and decided to affect the pensions of hundreds of children. How? They were left and used to compensate for the costs of public service care they received. As you will know, in the child protection system the Generalitat has children with different realities, some because they are foreign minors without family references in this country, others because their parents cannot effectively exercise guardianship and, in the case of the children we are talking about today, because they are orphans and have no one. These children are entitled to an orphan's pension, and what has happened for eight years in Catalonia is that the Generalitat has retained this pension in terms of service costs, a service that should be free of charge, according to our Social Services Portfolio, a service that is free of charge for the rest of the children in the protection system. This has been done in Catalonia for eight years is a discriminatory practice that violates the principle of equality, because in practice some children are paid for the service and others are not. And I wonder: how can one pretend to protect a minor by staying with their pensions and not returning them? Less than a week ago, I received a reply from the Government regarding the amounts collected by the Generalitat over the past five years. Between 2015 and 2019, the Generalitat has paid €3.5 million in orphan's pensions. Specifically, in the last year, in 2019, it has raised 700,000_euros. That means 0.002_per_cent of the Generalitat's budget, half of what it costs to keep the former presidents' pensions and all the privileges they have. Is it really worth doing something as ugly as staying an orphan's pension, for 0.002_per_cent of the Generalitat's budget? By 0.002_per_cent we have forced orphans who are alone out of the system with one hand in front and one behind. And if it is already difficult for a young man in Catalonia to emancipate himself, put yourself in the place of those who have been forced to jump without a network, entering adult life without a family network and without savings. And I suppose you will all agree with me that this has been a distortion of the system, an absolute perversion of a law designed to protect children, not to unprotect them in this way. And I suppose you will also agree with me that this has happened in Catalonia is not normal. In fact, I myself contacted different autonomous administrations in the rest of Spain to see if they were doing something similar, and I did not find a single autonomous community that would not give the orphan the amount of orphan's pensions when they turned eighteen. The general policy debate in 2016 adopted a motion for a resolution by my colleague Laura Vílchez urging the Generalitat to stop doing so. Also the deputy Raúl Moreno defended months later a proposal in the same direction. And even the People's Party already put this theme on the table in 2013. And even the Sindic de Greuges, which is not precisely suspected of commuling with Citizens, has repeatedly reiterated the need to return these pensions to their legitimate owners. In two control sessions the Government was affected by Councillor Homrani and I announced that we would present this bill in order to prevent the DGAIA from remaining with these pensions, and not only that, but also to return to the last cent all those orphans whose orphan pensions have been taken away for eight years, to repair the aggravation and to return to them a money that should never have been taken away, to restore dignity to those who have already suffered quite badly from the circumstances that have affected them and, why not say so? , to regain the dignity of this autonomous community, which should never have touched a single euro of these pensions. And it doesn't usually happen, but on the basis of insistence, the council did something, even if it was just for not hearing me again in a control session. As I said at the beginning, the first problem was addressed in the accompanying budget law and pensions have ceased to be affected. But what about the pensions left by DGAIA during all these years? This proposal for a law answers that question. They have to be returned. And if this law passes the one-time reading procedure and we update the article on these two days that we have, by adopting Friday, we will be able to finish this session with the duties done, with a calm conscience, knowing that we have done justice, knowing that we have restored a right that should never have been taken away from the orphans. We will be able to move on, because we will have closed a sad chapter that should never have happened. And from Citizens we believe that it is necessary to leave this issue to be settled, because, let us not be fooled, political instability causes it to plan the shadow of a new call for elections. And I think what we can do best for these orphaned children who went through the child protection system and who did not receive their pensions, and also the best we can do for future Members of Parliament. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of the next legislature, it is to be responsible and to leave this issue solved this same week – and I finish – in order not to have to re-address this unpleasant situation that has happened in Catalonia for eight long years. I think it's time to do justice and move on. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.98.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.99.0	Well, thank you, President. Members and Members of Parliament, Councillor, told us before Mrs Naomi de la Calle, that this was a history of the various changes that have been made to the same additional provision number 7 of the Children's Law, the Law on the Rights of Childhood in Catalonia, rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. Certainly, it was good and ugly, let's say, this walk, since by the year 2016 the Socialist Parliamentary Group had made a unique reading initiative to try to change this article; it was not possible, because it ended the legislature and, therefore, it was not possible to approve. Then, by the year 2017, Juntes per el Si and the CUP agreed, in the Law of fiscal, administrative and financial measures of the public sector, a modification that incorporated also the need to pay the orphan's pensions to the infants. And, therefore, since the year 2017 this could already have been done. But, of course, here's a phone problem, which is that we're talking about a law that hasn't been in place for years. You don't have any rules of the Children's Law! We've said it all the years, we've approved it many times. Of course, without regulation and without the deployment of this additional provision, pensions have not been paid. Later, the year 2020, a few years ago, several parliamentary groups within the accompanying law approved, in addition, an incorporation, a better one of this article, which makes it very clear that the orphan's pensions must return to the children who cease to be protected by organizations or by the protective entity that follows. Therefore, the problem here is not a law problem. If the law is very clear! If I hadn't made this change! – then I will refer to the proposal made by Ciutadans. It's just that the law didn't add up. But it's not as much as the legislative changes that the same parties that raise the government have made. They do not complete their own laws, nor their own legislative amendments. Then it is given a few more days to protect the child with a law that, I insist, carries years without regulation. There are no more excuses; she left them. You don't want to deploy this law. Make it another almenys; well, or not, but do the favor of completing your laws. On the 5th of February, Councillor Chakir El Homrani explained in his parliamentary office something that..., later answered a parliamentary question. I'll explain. We said that this measure affects 233 children – 233 children – only 233 children in Catalonia! Are we unable to give her orphan's pension to 233 children in Catalonia? It is a small, minimal amount of children to whom you are not paying the orphan's pension; neither to these nor to whom they have ceased to be protected since 2017. I was following him. The councillor said: "This is an anomaly of our system. Home, I'd say it's about making the law complete. He says: "We are working on a decree that allows us to change this situation. So, you recognize that it's not doing what the 5th of February law says, it's saying, five months ago, to make a decree that I think it might have already been filed. But, of course, it's not five months ago, it's 2017, I insist, that this decree should have been made, after the legislative amendment. So we're talking three years and a half! Clearly, what's happened in three years and a half? So that without decree and without regulation, the Law of Childhood of Catalonia..., the Generalitat remained with 3,548,241,11_euros during the period from 2015 to 2019, that they are child guardians orfes, and that they have used to pay for the service that is free, to pay for their own services, that they are free. Later on, on July 15th, in an answer to a parliamentary question for Ciutadans and signed for the Councillor, you tell us in the first paragraph that the Generalitat has entered zero_euros five years ago, but only a paragraph after they actually enter the orphan's pensions of the minors they hold in their care, as provided for by the Law of Social Security. That's 3.5 million. But after saying that this money is intended exclusively to cover expenses arising from the attention of the public service, as the Children's Law says in a 2002 decree. It's not true. Since 2017, you haven't said that, the law of childhood. Therefore, as there is no rule, as the decree has not been made, the money has the generality, the use to finance public services free of charge to which children are entitled, and they go absolutely beyond the girl legislative changes for the same government. They incomplete, as I said, even all the articles that you yourself reform. And again I ask: do you think that the minor wards have to pay part of the cost of residential centers in Catalonia? So, as long as the law forbids it, it keeps going. It is as if a disabled child withdraws his or her performance to use adapted transport. Of course... And so, and in short, the problem is not the legislative change. The problem is the government's desire for child policies in our country, with a law that hasn't been in place for more than two years. They always tell us: "We are working on it, but slow, very slow, if they really are doing it. Because after two years, already, as you can imagine, we don't trust that much. And this last minute I want to dedicate to the proposal made by Ciutadans, which, I insist, from the point of view of the content does not please us, I say, but I think that in order to sort between a legislative amendment to try to improve everything that is possible the situation of these children – as at least because they cover those that have not been charged – and not to do anything, or to make a abstention that allows the government to continue without doing anything, I prefer a legislative amendment. I insist, the text does not please us, because you do two things that I think are contradictory. For a band, they only want these money to stop those children..., "who complete the guardianship or custody measures of the guardianship entity, and provided that a life and training plan has been designed with the help of the Directorate General for Children and Adolescents, and no: it is a child who has right to his or her thought, follow the plan or do not follow the plan, at the time when he or she is outside the guardianship; it is a right. So we don't like this. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I finish, President, with the issue of retroactivity, that from the legislative point of view it will be difficult to keep it, but I think we have to make every effort to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.100.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, ara, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the words of the MP Concepción Abellán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.101.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, the proposal for a law which we are debating today in a single reading, presented by Ciutadans, proposes a co-op exemption for orphaned minors protected by the Administration, through the amendment of Law 14/2010, of rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. The Government, the Directorate-General for Child Care, DGAIA, has been holding orphan pensions for children under the care of the Administration for years, and not only that: not returning them when they turn eighteen, the ownership of this pension being theirs; a totally unjust measure and with the weakest population: children and adolescents who for several but always difficult circumstances have had to be under the care of a welcoming entity or family. The allocation of these pensions and benefits for minors protected by DGAIA was based on the seventh additional provision of Law 14/2010 of 27 May. This provision provided that the amount of benefits or pensions to which children and adolescents who are under the guardianship or custody of the guardianship entity are entitled to receive the costs arising from the public service care they receive. Later this precept was developed by Instruction 1/2012 of 24 February, in the middle of the period of the cuts of Mr.Artur Mas. This allowed the Administration to collect the child's pension. Already at this moment the syndic required the Department of Social Benestar i Família to let this instruction go, to which the department, refusing the claim of families and minors, replied saying no, that it could not do so, since the instruction only clarified the circuit of management of the pensions. But the reality is that this instruction, among others, considered the benefits and pensions own resources of the Generalitat, and therefore integrated them into their budgets, making the measure an undercover co-op of a service that per portfolio is and must be free. And this has created a tremendously unfair situation for foster children. We talk about childhood, who require greater protection from the administration. In 2013, the syndic again asked DGAIA to return to extute children and adolescents the pensions that the Generalitat received from social security during its guardianship. Again, in 2017, the syndic reclassified the situation as discriminatory, stating that the measure of appropriation is on the part of non-contributory pensions corresponding to guardianship children that do not meet the current regulatory framework and is discriminatory. It is unacceptable for the administration to cover the costs of guardianship, because, as we have said before, it is a public service. Let us recall some of the syndic's considerations. The generation of an obligation to pay for the service by foster children was not covered by the social services regulations, the host regulations or the social services fees and prices. It noted that such an allocation was contrary to the principle of equality, since it implied that any minor who received an orphan's pension or a dependent child's benefit would contribute one hundred per cent of the amount of his pension to the financing of the child care service, without distinction as to the amount, nor to the resources available, nor to his or her economic capacity, while the minor or the minor under guardianship, who benefited from another economic resource, and not from this pension, did not contribute anything to the financing of the child care service. Finally, the syndic concluded that it was not possible to interpret the seventh additional provision of Law 14/2010 as a rule that creates an obligation to participate in the financing of the service or as a rule that assigns the ownership of pension amounts to the Generalitat. This so unjust situation has been repeatedly denounced for years by family members, extolled and extolled young people, entities of foster families and by the opposition in this Parliament. In this regard, we thank Ciutadans for pressing for a change with this proposal of law, although it no longer makes sense, thanks to a necessary change that has been made through the law of measures of the budgets of this year, which has at last modified the seventh provision of Law 14/2010, by establishing that the orphan's pension is integrated into the patrimony of the orphan child or adolescent, of which it becomes part, and, after the custody or guardianship situation of the Generalitat, the protective entity must hand over to the orphan or the orphan, the persons holding the patrimony or guardianship, if it is still a minor, the whole of its patrimony. Until 2010 the DGAIA did handle these pensions and benefits; it accumulated them and handed them over to the youth when it ended their situation of helplessness or when they were older. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as always, are late. Orphaned boys and girls protected by you do not deserve to have been putting their hands in their pockets; it is unacceptable and abusive. Finally, the great injustice they have committed with the most vulnerable is corrected and we put the law at your service by resolving this injustice. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, thank you for putting the issue back on the agenda, but, as I said before, it is already something that was resolved by the law of measures, which, I remember, voted against it. By now, they could have withdrawn this law, as it makes no sense to approve what is already approved. In any case, we will allow one-reading, as your proposal formally meets all the requirements. I would also like to say that we will table an amendment and use it to add improvements to the situation of orphaned children affected by this policy of confiscation, unjust and implemented by the Catalan Government over the past eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.102.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.103.0	Good afternoon. The first thing we want to remember is what is the origin of what we are discussing today or what we are discussing at this point. There have already been some other parliamentary group spokespersons who have reminded us of that. They themselves and they themselves have appointed themselves the Government of the best – they tell me that they can't say themselves, but I think they do; and I make this correction. This is the government of the best. How many times have we had to remember what the best governments did? and, therefore, that we have the ability to go to fix where is the origin of what today may have begun to change. And we'll talk about that, whether it's starting to change today or whether it's tried to change before. First of all, this parliamentary sub-group, when it was a parliamentary group, through an agreement to the laws of assumptions and accompanying, has already tried – and so let's say, "try – what we thought was to leave the rules without effect with the feeling and the form that had been in place since 2012. And we thought that with that agreement for this matter the question was resolved. But we also want to remember that this very Ple was on April 24, 2020, which formally, again, wanted to leave no effect on this content. That, yes, we have, since April 24, 2020 or, better yet, since the entry into force of the Law of Presumptives and the Law of Accompanying until now we have not seen anything change; we have to say so. If anyone can convince us that they have changed something from the material point of view to explain it to these lesser ones, but we have not seen it, more quickly than we have seen is a continuation of the situation they had so far. And that's what we're explaining, and we're also saying in advance that we're going to vote in favour of single-reading and that we're going to vote in favour of everything that could mean going to solve a situation that would never have existed. Absolutely not. And to respect what it is to be able to say about the one reading: first we should make a very simple exercise, because any Catalan or Catalan can understand what we are talking about now. And I may be making it simple, but it would be as simple as having a few children under the supervision of the Administration that they may have a right to pensions and, as the law proposes, to benefits – it does not speak only of pensions, it speaks of pensions and benefits – and that, during an initial period, from 2012 until now, in accounts of incorporating them into their assets, they have not been incorporated into their assets. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about anything else. They do not integrate into their assets, and with a peculiarity..., because they might not initially integrate into their assets – but once they have completed the obligation of the Administration, from that moment on, that the Administration may reintegrate or directly transfer from what it had generated as a performance. We can understand that during that period there are some responsibilities on the part of the Administration and that, therefore, it is conveniently arranged, but not when the obligations of the Administration are completed. That's what we're talking about today. And in response to this question, we think that the natural nature of the subject absolutely deserves that there may be a unique reading and that, after that, the second element, the simplicity that sets the Rules of Parliament for us, so look, we have a proposal for a law of an article as to what, a transitory disposition, an additional disposition, if I don't remember... No, and directly a disposition as to the duration. We are referring to the additional transitional arrangement because we would like to be able to make it possible – and we put it this way, perhaps – to the group proposing that the transitional arrangement should also have another content. Therefore, there must be another contingencies in the system, which is in good measure what is laid down in the transitory and which, perhaps, at last, should include an additional one in which we fix, in case anyone has doubts, the obligation to transfer the agreement in regulation and to fix a deadline. I have said to this group without practically the ability to come up with these papers, but as a matter of course we believe that all groups and sub-groups of Parliament should agree on the next forty-four hours, so much so that we have an agreement from the group group group to give a solution to this problem, and so that we can get out of this plenary not with tranquillity – from here we do not go any more calm and tranquillity – but at the very least with a thought that we have tried to give a resolution to a concrete issue. And, therefore, that you can see this possibility. In any case, with the appreciation that we have made, we think that it is giving the two situations: simplicity and naturalness, and that is why we would vote in favour of it being given for a single reading. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.104.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.105.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. We find ourselves here with a proposal for a law in Ciutadans which states that neither the law of childhood nor repeated complaints by the parliamentary groups nor the complaint to the Syndicate have placed a situation of abuse and continued discrimination on the part of DGAIA. In our case it has already been said, from here we denounced this totally irregular situation, when it was not almost criminal, in 2012, without having done absolutely nothing about respect. It's an abuse, it's discrimination, especially with the weakest, those who don't have a family structure around them that can help them, that can accompany them, and that can advise them, at certain times, this practical. But it's not even worse, because it's no longer coughy, it's practically a use, practically, I would say pseudoauthoritarian of the power that binds the administrations, and the DGAIA in concrete, to have the custody and custody of a minor who doesn't have this familiar development. It is true that the council has many projects of law that they have to do with non-discrimination, with equal treatment and, in fact, we carry practically months talking about this law, but for another band while for one hand it presents a project of this kind, for the other it continues with abuse and discrimination. What can't be increased is, for example, to set an example, to help minors by families who decide to help a minor who has a family structural background and to increase these aids to 325, 362_€ for less than zero to nine years, from give to fourteen; and, for another group, to help minors who don't have a structural background, who don't have a home and who live in a foster care centre, go, who almost cover the shelter and the place where they live, as if they were in a hotel or hostel. It seems to me ashamed. And it is true that the proposal has some fault, but obviously it can be solved on these days and that we will clearly vote for it. Not only for justice, but also for dignity in institutions. How is it possible that institutionally it does not react before abuse and discrimination girls to underage orphans? I think we need to volunteer for it because eight years without solving this and, in addition, to stick to the wheels that such an unfair and irregular situation is still produced over time cannot depend on whether it is legally more or less complicated to apply to retroactivity effects. It doesn't have to be that way, and that's why we're giving it a full recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.106.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.107.0	Well, thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, good afternoon. We are debating the proposed law on the waiver of co-payment to the minor orphans under guardianship for the Administration, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. My intervention will divide it, therefore, into two parts. For a band, in relation to positioning on the background, therefore, the concrete content of this law proposal. I, for the other, positioning on the shape. That is, the fact of the petition to proceed for one reading. With regard to the content of the proposal, let me make a reference, a premise on who it affects, to whom this reform that today is being proposed here by the plenary of the Catalan Parliament may affect. Currently, in Catalonia, there are 233 children and adolescents between two and divided years who have this certificate of guardianship of the benefit per orphan. And of these 233 – which would be addressed, in part, by this proposal of law –, of these, therefore, respect the measures of protection, 25_per_cent are in foster care with alien family, a 35_per_cent in extended family and a 40_per_cent in institution. That said, and about the concrete content that is proposed here, I begin by the end. The object of this law's proposal, where you want to solve this law, is already solved. It is to say, that the thought of orphaning of a child or adolescent under the custody or guardianship of the Generalitat de Catalunya integrates into the patrimony of the child and, therefore, is not dedicated to covering expenses arising from his or her attention, this has been resolved in these last months. And, indeed, it's an unfair situation. For this reason, all the necessary procedures were carried out, because, precisely, a tax bill was approved and financed on the previous April of this year – a bill that was approved unanimously from this chamber – and therefore, the necessary reform of the LDOIA, the Law of Rights and Opportunities in Childhood and Adolescence approved in 2010, and that can be changed, through this bill, to the law of measures at present, that law can be changed, concretely the additional provision seven, and therefore, being drafted in such a way that this thought is integrated into the heritage of the child and, therefore, a copy of the majority of the patrimony, if at all, the person of his or her father's age is protected. Therefore, this has been resolved. Now, where do we come from? So, effectively, we come from the year 2010 where the LDOIA was approved, a very important law for this country to protect the rights and opportunities of our country's childhood. And, effectively, therefore, the seven additional provision of that law was able to make a restrictive interpretation and ended up affecting the pensions of these people, of these children, in the concept of expenses derived from their attention. At first, for two years, there was a time of transition when this law application was suspended until 2012. But unfortunately, from 2012 onwards, the relevant changes were made. The Government's DGAIA at that time, therefore, approved an instruction that confirmed precisely the decision to allocate these pensions to cover food obligations, among others. Indeed, we share from the Republican Group, from the Republican Left, that that decision of 2012 left the door open to an unfair situation and an unfair situation among the foster children. The syndic said so too – and some groups from here have also said so, there was reference – the syndic when he denounced this situation already in the 2015 report. And, indeed, it is a subject that has been debated on various occasions by various groups of this chamber. From that moment when this, therefore, began to happen, the Generality began to work to address that error. It is not that it has now been corrected because the Member proposing this proposal has asked the Councillor – who has certainly already answered it, and certainly the Chamber has resolved – but at that time it has already begun to work. So much so – as the CUP Member reminded us – that the year 2017, already in the law of measures of that year, was the subject of this error, it approved a modification of the seven-year additional provision of the 2010 LDOIA. What happened at the time? That precisely that modification required a standard deployment through, therefore, a regulation. A rule that, even though it has been working between the years 2018, 2019 and this year, therefore, will convince me that it is obvious that we have not spent the quietest moments in this country the last years so that we can deploy a rule that we can give the firmest need because we can deploy. And in any case, in order not to extend the processing of this rule further, to do so as quickly as possible, it was decided, precisely, that – as I said earlier – this situation could be addressed in the law of enforcement measures. Therefore, since this April, this issue has already been resolved. Solve, therefore, this situation that was already in force since 2017, but for lack of regulation it could not have started to apply. I, therefore, are not left behind. I want to claim that. Just to avoid having to make a regulation and broaden this situation, it was in the law of measures, therefore, of this year. On the concrete proposal submitted to us by the Ciutadans Group, there are two... The additional provision and the derogation provision are already settled, precisely because of the issue of the law of measures adopted this year. On a part of the additional provision, which is on the current account and the need to keep a current account, it is not such a simple situation. In some cases, you may be able to access the account of these minors for the benefit of the minor himself, because there are some types of acceptances of inheritance, because some type of dealing with some embargoes. And in this sense, as well as being able to access this current account. In the case of the transitional retroactivity arrangement, it is not a simple issue either; it is not simple. In what way? When? What? Legally, with what coverage? It's not just a presuppositional issue, it's, above all, legal. This is why we warn of the difficulty of being able to make ourselves and not as simple as the proposal they make us in this proposal. And for what it does to the first additional disposition, to have to make a regulation to, precisely, deploy this law, we have already seen the difficulties it has entailed in the last few times to make a regulation. Therefore, the law of guany measurements already said that it did not need to make a regulation. It was already a legislative change and there was no need to make a regulation. I'm done. About the shape, too. Because in its final provision they say that it does not have to enter into force until the next fiscal year. Therefore, if it does not have to enter into force until the coming year or until the next presuppositionary exercise, why should a single reading process be carried out? So what we're saying is, let's do it, but let's do it right, as always. It's done through a process. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I conclude – legislative, not by one reading, because we believe that they are not always useful, sometimes they lead us to confusion or legal uncertainty, when there is no great consensus and when it has not worked before. Therefore, the foundation is resolved since last April...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.108.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.109.0	... the form – I finish – we believe is not the right one. We can work to do it the best we can and end this situation, so effectively, injustice. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.110.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, she has the word deputy Ms Montserrat Macià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.111.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councillor, deputies, deputies, very late. I also greet the fellow Members who are following us telematically and, therefore, that there is a good delay. And as we believe that it is not possible to normalize repression, from here I send a lot of force to our companions and friends, to Lluís Guinó, Mireia Boya, Anna Simó, Lluís Coromines and Ramona Barrufet, the members of the former Bureau who are now passing the calvary of being to the TSJ as accused, accused for allowing parliamentary debate. From here, a hug. We are before, it has been said, of a proposal of law which, from the outset, we see to our parliamentary group, up late, and up late, because the concept that is intended to change has already been solved. So, up late and you don't feel it, and as you don't feel it, we'll vote against it. However, I would like to make a series of considerations or reflections on the seven additional provision of the Children's Law. Since 2010, when it is promulgated, and its traceability until May 5, 2020, the date on which an anomaly is solved that, in our opinion, has not defended the rights of infants and adolescents as closely as possible. The story, precisely, makes it possible to hear the present, and it is worth the exercise of history. The additional provision seven, in its original wording, adopted it in 2010, stipulated that "the import of pension benefits from which children and adolescents who are under protective measures or guardians of the guardianship entity are entitled, remains affected to cover the expenses arising from the public service's care. This is the text contained in the bill submitted to the government of President Montilla. And that's what he approved. A parliamentary group presented papers at this stage during the proceedings: chap. After a transitional period, in 2012, DGAIA approved Instruction 1/2012 with which it is ugly applicable to the law of 2010. It was not a restrictive interpretation, but derived directly from the law of 2010: to affect the pensions of the minor wards in the concept of expenses derived from their care. In our opinion, it is clear that it was a flagrant regression of children's rights in line with what had been done until 2010, when DGAIA accumulated the pensions and social security benefits of the minor wards and delivered them when the situation of unemployment or the majority of the elderly ended. Why was 2010 changed and in the wake of a modern law that advocates the best interests of infants, equity and non-discrimination, and that takes into account all international treaties on the rights of infants and adolescents? Why, if no legislation, except for this provision, should the obligation to pay for the services by the minor wards be reduced? Why? Viewed with perspective, and appreciating much the bounds of Law 14/2010, which has and many, surmounts for injustice and discriminating this writing. Of course it has to be put in context, but, despite everything, we believe that a crisis context cannot justify that it will be a violation of the child's best interests, nor will discrimination be taken for granted. The Greuges Mayor has already explained himself, in his report to Parliament he has already warned of this anomaly; some parliamentary groups have presented parliamentary initiatives that are coming to fruition, and in 2015 the Mayor has already recommended the derogation of the seven additional provision for injustice, discrimination and failure to comply with the current standard mark. Following this recommendation, Law 5/2017 modifies the additional provision of childhood. The question was not well resolved. It was replaced by a regulatory development that did not arrive. Finally, the Government of Catalonia has incorporated the modification of the seven additional provision into Law 5/2020 of 29 April, leading to that anomaly. This is the traceability of this arrangement. And here we are. It has been solved; a problem that emanates from the very law of childhood has finally been solved. The additional provision did not take account of the child's best interests, and therefore neither the rights nor the interests of the minor guardians. It has to be acknowledged – it has to be recognised – that it has taken us a long time to change this anomaly or these irregularities, mass, and perhaps – and perhaps – it would be useful to reflect around how difficult it is to change things, yet to agree with it, and also to reflect on how to change the papers when it is governed or when it is at the opposition, defending actions of government that you have not only driven and critically questioning actions of government of which you are the author. To fight against injustice it is clear that you may fight against the resistance of your own system. It may be necessary to fight against the tendency to the continuity of what is converted into structural. That's how they move forward and that's how they get better. Finally, and in relation to the single reading procedure, our parliamentary group understands that it does not meet the assumptions set out in the Rules. Finally, I would just like to recall a phrase by Eglantyne Jebb, founder of Save the Children, who, all in all, waits for us in hope, and says thus: « Every generation of children offers humanity the opportunity to rebuild the world. I wish I was like this. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.112.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The vote, the record that will take place at the end of this late afternoon, after item 9 of the order of the day. [[Proposition of law of urgent measures in the matter of yield containment in housing leases]] [[202-00080/12]] We shall now proceed to the next item on the debate on the proposal, which is to be dealt with directly and in a single reading in the plenary on the proposal for a law on urgent measures concerning the containment of yields in rental contracts for housing. In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed have called for the processing of a single reading before the Plethora of the enunciated legislative initiative. According to the criteria laid down for the Bureau, a first debate and vote are required because the Plenary agrees if the procedure for the single reading procedure is to be carried out. As you know, the debate must return, it must revolve around the opportuneness of the text and the principles and criteria that inform the proposal, as set out in the Rules of Procedure in its Article 138.1. To do this, parliamentary groups will have a time of seven minutes and five subgroups. In the first place the four proposing groups will intervene and initially the deputy Susanna Segovia will do it, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.113.0	Thank you very much. We believe that it is, today, a historic day for the Parliament of Catalonia. Today is a historic day when the groups that we are here believe that we must aggravate, to begin with, the work that the Llogateres Union does, that we must aggravate the years of struggle, of resistance, of claims, of dealing with speculation and the increase of the hundreds of lives that struggle to stay at home, so that we do not have to change from home, so that we do not have to change from barriers, so that we do not have to change our lives, so that speculation and abuse in the logues expels them from their homes, from their barrels. We're here, basically, thanks to them. This debate is thanks to them, but thanks to them, but we will all benefit from it. We will also benefit those who do not want to meet, we will benefit the whole society that we really are moving forward, we take a step forward to regulate the prices of the meet, to prevent there from being a galloping speculation. That is why we have also seen hundreds of organizations sign a manifesto of support for this initiative today and in the last few days. This initiative is being debated here today thanks to mobilization and social organization, and we must not lose sight of this. We have discussed several times in this plenary of the crisis of the priests of the lloger, that Catalonia has suffered in the last five years an increment in the price of the lloger of the 30_per_cent, that only 2019 has advanced a 4_per_cent to Barcelona, forgives, to all Catalonia, and this according to Idealist, that it is not precisely suspected to be in favor of regulation and intervention in the priests of lloger. Families spend 40_percent of their entrance fees on housing, 40_percent according to the Observatoryi Metropolità de l'Habitatge. What's the result of this explosive combination? So what we say: hundreds of families that have to leave, that when their contract is over, they find that they get a 20, a 30 and up to 50 percent, that they look around their barrels, the place where their children go to school and they don't find a habitat that they can take over. Either they have to go to a much smaller piss than they can afford, or they have to leave the city or the city. That's what this law, this proposal for it, they intend to regularize and they intend to avoid. We've also talked to you here many times. It is clear that there is a great deal of importance to the later reform that has been done with the Government of the People's Party of the Law of Urban Leases, from the incentives to the Societies, the fiscal incentives that allow it to be enriched with the speculation of the lloguers, from the lack of a public policy of promotion of the social lloguer, and we also need to put it on the table, the lack of structural policies that reverse the model of housing in Catalonia, and this is what has caused us to see hundreds and hundreds of families fighting in the street and fighting against this speculation and against this expulsion in the years to come. And one of the most paradigmatic we've ever been to, right? The families that are fighting against the source return Azora, a source that has more than thirty thousand habitats of lovage from all over the State, that does not only push abusively in the veins and in the veins, taking advantage of the law that now allows them to do so, but also more do fraud scams of the law making some hidden pushes in the length of the contracts, but it is more than more than empty floors. In fact, recently, the Barcelona City Council has launched a sanctioning expedition to keep empty floors to a voltary fund that speculates with habitation. We also saw the families of Pons and Gallarza, after three years of fighting, were able to stay at their homes in the barri de Sant Andreu. We have seen hundreds of ways and means that now they are collectively fighting, organized, that have raised a wave of loguers to face the housing crisis, which will still be worse off by the crisis of the Covid. That's why this is the context in which this initiative up here, an initiative that, we insist a lot, comes and has been led by the Llogateres Union, by the social organization, by the social movement. An organization that worked hand in hand with the Department of Justice. In this sense we do want to recognize the work done at the Council of Justice. We think it's a job that's done a lot different than the previous decree of a year ago, that we all knew how it went, like doing something to civil society, to parliamentary groups, that didn't make it right. We think this time it's made a difference. That is why the parliamentary groups of the CUP and Catalonia in Comú can also gather this initiative of the Llogateres Union, together with the groups that are in government and bring it here to the debate. Yes, we expect courage from all the groups that sign this initiative, and we hope that we will keep on the agreements that we have all signed, because what would not be agreed in any other way is that the groups that present an initiative in auto-boycottage and boycott the initiative of the Llogateres Union. Therefore, a call to the responsibility of the groups that present the initiative to keep us in what we have undertaken with the union. And I would also like to address the rest of the parliamentary groups so that I understand why the transcendence of this initiative, why it is important that it is in force as before, because from its moment of application it will already begin to affect the speculation of the loguer's price and to punch the loguer's cylinder. We believe that the one-reading debate, which is the debate that we are having right now, understand the doubts that may have been expressed, we have already clarified why we believe that yes, that it is urgent to make this debate urgently. Because it's an initiative that just recently was closed, because we've had the Dàmocles spasm of the election call since months ago. President Torra himself said so. We do not know when we will find it and we cannot afford the luxury that at the middle of the process of this initiative there is an electoral call and I am stuck not know how many months, for more until there is a Parliament, until there is a government again. This is the urgency: the urgency of having completed a negotiation process a short time ago, and the urgency of having an uncertain scene. I believe that the responsibility of the groups that we are here and with this unique reading is to give certainly. That's why it's very important that we can do the full debate on this before you finish this session period, before July 31st. And it is in this sense that we want to demand this responsibility from all parliamentary groups because this initiative can be a fact as before, because it begins to affect people's lives as before. I would also like to make a small reference to the competition debate, which will certainly also come out at the length of today's debate. I would like to remind you that one of the agreements that we have in the agreement of the coalition of government between the PSOE and the United We Can and In The Common We Can is the regulation of the loguers, that the same Minister Ábalos has compromised that by June they will take steps; it has taken the step of an index, but it is not a sufficient step. In Catalonia we go further, we go faster, above all thanks, we insist, to the mobilization and the strength of the Union of Lodgers. We use this initiative to advance to the rest of the state as well. We use this because the State is empowered and allows autonomous communities and joints to regulate the logger. Let's keep up, take a step forward and hope that from the government of the state, which we are part of, and we will do everything possible because that's what this is all about, that's how this law works as it was before it was better, that's what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.114.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it has the paragraph deputy Maria Sirvent of the Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.115.0	MPs, MPs; counselors, advisors... well, good afternoon. This is an initiative that comes from civil society, in concrete terms, from the Trade Union of Llogateres, but to which they support more than 4,000 entities, more than 3,000 of the Third Sector Table, more than 400 cooperatives of the XES, more than 400 associations of veins and 23 venenal federations of the Confavc, among others the Collège de Traball Social and many other social actors representing civil society. It's a minimum proposition, but it's very necessary. What's he doing, this law proposal? So, it prevents me from paying for for example eight hundred euros for an lloger, the own contract, when the contract is terminated and that contract is renewed if I remove the price of the lloger that I am paying, it is up to me if I renew that lloger or it is up to another person who comes to occupy my position as the logger. Then, in a situation of health emergency, where the authorities are asking for confinement, where there are thousands of people who do not have the right to housing, it is a proposal that is very necessary. Remember that it comes from a decree regulating the prices of the previous logue, before which they opposed various social movements and in particular the Union to Llogateres. Today's decree is a decree that is consensual with social movements. It has come to an agreement with social movements in order to be able to make a regulation of the price of the lloger that is necessary; a pioneering regulation that makes the Parliament of Catalonia, that it has to open the doors to which is the rules the price of lloger riu, that is done also to all the Catalan Countries, because the situation of emergence is very difficult. Let us hope that speculators in this country are not being pressured by the groups that have signed this proposal because this proposal is being modified to scales of social movements that defend the right to housing. This parliamentary sub-group would not be explained by the past, but which would not be explained by the fact that it is the social movements that have long since left the body, the head and the color before each denunciation. Facing the Mossos d'Esquadra del Departamento d'Interior, which every day, with police brutality, will attack the veins that defend the right to housing. That's enough. You can't go on like this. We're in a state of health emergency. People must have the right to have guaranteed a decent rest. And many of the groups that are here today will surely come to say that this has been done very badly, that it has been done for one reading and that we are enjoying, therefore, procedures that are not the most appropriate or the most democratic. What I am sure was not democratic was to amend Article 135 of the Constitution, which posed bankers in front of people in the 2008 crisis on fifteen days, with a single reading, with night and with treachery. What has also not been democratic is to amend the Constitutional Court's Organic Law to have executive powers in fifteen days, also with nighttime and treachery and with a single reading. Look, all that's going to improve people's lives, all that's going to try to make sure that everyone has a decent rest, that the denunciations, the sense of denunciations that we're living in this country, that police brutality is going on, and that people can have a place to spend this health emergency situation, we'll defend it, just the way it is. Because, when it comes to obeying Merkel's mandates, when it comes to putting funded entities in front of people, you don't have a problem approving single-reading laws and asking people to do so. Therefore, we celebrate this proposal, and repeat: let us hope that no speculator, no room of property, no agency of real estate today puts forward his interests to the interests of the citizenry. And this is the responsibility of all the parliamentary groups that we have signed up to this proposal, a proposal that, I repeat, what makes it impossible for us to push the prices of the loguer, that they are unorthodox prices that cannot be paid and that, moreover, those prices that are above the market medium must be lowered. And yes, it's not socialism. Yeah, I don't question it. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I'm done, President – private property, but it's very important for people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.116.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Deputy José Rodríguez, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.117.0	Thank you, President. This debate today should be about the price control of the loguer, but I think that, in the background, we will listen above all to excuses from how some groups suffer from the pressure of economic powers and speculators. Some will justify this under competitive technical criteria, under other economic criteria, and some, at least, believe that sticking papers behind the dialog with social movements can improve the text. But in the background, we talk about pressures and how the political system can try to improve people's lives or we can continue to do what it has always done. And I want to start by coming up with some of the objections that the opposition will make to this law. And I'm moving forward, not because I have telepathic powers or see a glass ball, but because yesterday we had a press wheel from the PSC explaining all these reasons. A press wheel, also to say, made with a certain chasm and, forgive me for saying the word, a certain grudge. For the PSC – and I do not doubt that this is also applicable to Ciutadans and the PP – the Catalan civil law is such a subsidizing and even residual thing, and even an anomaly in the Spanish legislative thing, and do not consider it a part of the modern legislative thing and with its own regulatory capacity. In fact, they apologize in a previous opinion of the Board of State Guarantees to try..., when we tried to present this law and we didn't get out. However, this opinion – I will quote two sentences from the opinion – says that ‘the law is clearly embedded in the matter of civil law, and more concretely in the field of legislative competence in contractual matters. The opinion says: "The fact that the State has not yet legislated – and it refers to the control of the price of the logue –" does not prevent the Generality from being able to legislate in areas that affect the binding relations arising from the contracts. Another criticism is that this law is only trying to achieve impacts and headlines. It's an absurd criticism. This law is a working tool between the Department of Justice and the Llogaters Union, among many others. It is a serious job that, in the parliamentary sphere, from my group, I have not only worked there, and I can understand that, as I also come from the PSC, they think that with their ex-companion they do not believe that they will be, but it is also the work of the Jordi Orobtig, with the spokesman of Justicia, and the Eva Baró, who was the former deputy and housing bearer of my group. But all this is just a smokescreen to avoid the debate we're debating and working on today. It's an innovative, burdensome and unique law in the state-wide legislative framework. It is the first law that tries to regulate, intelligently and without generating a transfer to the economy, the preus de lloger. Especially, put a topall that they're generating a speculative cylinder with the loggers. We're telling the speculators that they've come here, that they've already impoverished us enough, that we've already fallen into their hands with the real estate canister in 2008. But now, from the Administration, we have a limit to its greed. Some may be left behind by competitive technical questions, other behind by economic criteria. Others are now patenting the pressures and may not support the agreement that has been reached. In the background, everyone tries to justify that they do not believe in politics and that what they want, either actively or passively, is to maintain the 78's rule that includes the defense of elites who are trying to impoverish us and make speculative bombs. They don't just hear what this law means to many families who now see the threat of losing their right to habitat, because a speculator can put the price that you want without any limitation. They do not just understand how the assemblies and regions of all Europe are fighting this problem by means of very similar legislative measures that we are presenting. Some fans like the goo of the hortola, that neither blush the os nor let it blush. They tell me that we don't legislate from Catalonia, that the State will already do it, that they have all the skills and will do better, but never, ever, ever before the time to do it from the State. In fact, if we understand the housing policies that the Spanish State has made in its decades, we can say that there are two things that they have done: to lose 100,000_million euros in reliefs. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And bury 200,000_million euros in official protection habitat from which we no longer have any habitat in this protection park. It is not surprising that when you are helping Europe for Covid, it is not the end of a state that is burying €300,000_million in housing policies that have only been used to inflate a real estate bubble. So, look, for one moment, there is perhaps a majority in Parliament – and I hope that it is possible to support in particular any of the groups of the four signatory groups – who have the will to legislate on the floors of lloger, who does not want to continue burying hundreds of thousands of millions of euros in building cylinders, who believe that the Catalan Civil Code is neither marginal nor subsidiary to Spanish legislation, and who, moreover, believe that parliaments and laws should serve for the general interest and, in particular, to protect the most vulnerable. And the weakest ones here are the loggers and loggers, not the speculators who have lived very comfortable under a state that has never set them straight. To make the republic mean primarily that politics serves the common good and, look, for a while, maybe the citizens win against the speculators and, for a moment, we can prove that this Parliament serves much more than the Congress of Deputies. And I'm alerting them. If some want to reduce this Parliament to a chamber that only transposes state laws without its own legislative capacity as if it were a provincial parliament, the only thing it will do is to raise the arguments of those we want a similar state. They want us to believe that Parliament is not just a provincial parliament? So, to be credible, what they demand is that they respect the Parliament's agreement that it now appears to be, I hope that it is keeping the social majority to push this law forward and do not do constitutional filibusterism, as called for by the Llogators Union and a very broad set of social entities. Thank you very much. Only the signatory groups who maintain the agreement, who continue to believe that we must be able to control the prices of the logue, because the needs of the families are very urgent, very necessary and more just after the crisis of the Covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.118.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the word now has the deputy Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.119.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, counselors, deputies and deputies, very late everyone. Today, just... it was about these hours, just a week ago, certainly the four parliamentary groups that we signed this single-reading bill we were meeting with representatives of the Justice Council and also with the Llogaters Union. And it was there where I committed myself to sign this bill of law. Because we share, we share the problem we have with housing. We have expressed it several times since this Faristol in various debates that we have repeatedly had in this legislature on the problems of housing. Problems that have increased markedly just after the Covid crisis. Therefore, the pressure is important and in this context of problem we have in the housing we share, also, urgency. We also share the urgency of trying to reach agreements in order to deal with the problem we have in housing. Problem that – I have said, too, and I have manifested it several times since this Faristol – has a structural dimension. Certainly, if today we have a park of public habitats of powerful, important loguer regime, we could influence, let's say, in which is the price of the habitat of the private market. But that's not the situation. So, we don't, let's say, have this public housing park to manage to lodge in order to influence what is the private market. Therefore, measures are needed to be able to intervene and here, for this reason, we share the idea of the proposal for this proposal of the Law. To intervene in the measure of possibilities, in the measure of which are the resources that like the Administration we have in which it is to try to moderate what is the price of housing to lodge in the private market. Certainly, a little more than a year ago, the decree that was carried with this very purpose, so we already gave it support, but at those times it did not get the majority so that it could be approved. Therefore, certainly, we share that we can intervene in what are the prices of the market of the housing of lloger. We share this idea, we share the proposal, let's say, of this proposal of the law. Now, it also seems to us that it has margin of better; it has margin of better, this proposition of law. And, therefore, we reserve the opportunity to make some concrete statements on this bill. You think that, I will explain to you a little bit but that I invite you to read carefully, because, without any doubt, you are better at what is the text proposal you have submitted to you. Issues that have been worked, as they cannot be otherwise, from the Department of Territories and Sustainability and, therefore, also, with the connivance, let us say, of the Government of the country. In fact, there is one very technical one that seems to us to be very logical that, somehow, it can be accepted. There are three municipalities, in the relation of the municipalities in which the increase of the price of lloger, therefore, not above, from 2015 to 2019, to 20_per_cent and, therefore, it seems to us that it is logical that these three municipalities jump, somehow, from the proposal of listing that is done, in order to complete with what is the same rule, let us say, that marks the law. These are the municipalities of Figueres, Salou and Tortosa. Then, it also seems to us that this proposition of the law, without mistaking what is the hope and intention of the same proposition of the law, there are two elements that seem to us to improve what the text is. One is that it refers to encouraging what are the best in the private ownership housing park. Those owners who during the last five years have made a reversal in what is the best of their habitat – remain in the restoration of the kitchen, of the fooder, of the energy supplies, etc. – can have, let's say, a cumulative bonus of 5_per_cent, provided that they do not overcome what is the price index. Therefore, in this sense, if you were under the index, you could reach the index. But, therefore, in this sense, it seems to us that it is a measure that favors, let us say, what is economic activity, it favors the better of the housing park that we have in the country of private rule and, therefore, it seems to us that this is a measure that is interesting to promote. And the second, the private housing park. Look, I, the truth is, I'm targeting all the slogans against speculation. Certainly, the speculators on the issue of housing is what we must try to block them all. But of course, the market of housing, today, private, of logging, in this country is very atomized. There's a lot of casuistic. According to the report of the Observers Metropolità, in the city of Barcelona, 84_percent of the habitats are of title, are of regim... belong to people to physical persons. Therefore, there are many people who have a habitat and who live, let's say, therefore, and that for the table of the income of this habitat. Therefore, one of the measures that seems important to us to promote is also those families that have a 5.5 lower entrances of the reference indicator, so they can maintain, let's say, what is their contract to lodge at the same cost as their income. It seems to us that these measures improve in a very important and substantial way what is the content of this proposal of law and of us, joining us to the Rules, let us say, of Parliament, we will also bring these two elements and the third technique that, in some way, I invite you to read it carefully because it seems important to us, too, that this proposal of law is approved and improved. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.120.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to position himself, has the word in the first place the deputy Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.121.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, councillors, councillors, deputies, what I have to tell you, and above all to the citizens who see us, is that we are not facing a housing proposal, we are facing an instrument to build a narrative in the face of imminent elections by some groups of this Parliament... – President, has I posed the time? [[Pause.]] Okay. We are, as I said, faced with an instrument to build a narrative for the next elections, because some groups want to appear as the greatest defenders of the right to housing, but it is just appearance. For starters, this has been announced, first of all, in a press conference, they have not sought the complicity of the rest of the groups, nor the opinion. But there is another question: they know that the proposal exceeds the powers of the Generalitat and invades state powers. This is so clear that In Comú Puem, which knows it perfectly well, will present next Friday a motion to ask the Government of Spain – i.e. themselves – to amend the legislation so that the autonomous communities can regulate the rents, because now they cannot. I mean, there's a recognition that they can't regulate rents now, from Podemos, but they still bring us this initiative. And they also know Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, but that's what they want, because what they want is to feed the competition conflict, and we've already seen it in the intervention of the deputy of Esquerra Republicana, because I already used that narrative to say that they need the republic, that they're building the republic, let's go, the usual story. Because it is not about facilitating access to housing but about legitimizing their political projects. We can, acting as activists in this Parliament, forgetting that his is the Government of Spain, his is the City of Barcelona and his are also the budgets of the Generalitat, and the secessionists, looking again for the competitive conflict to keep in loop« Spanish steals, Spanish kills us and we have a state against, which is the only processing fuel. Nothing to build a public housing park, everything to build that narrative. And it's not that it's a historic day, as has been heard here, it's the day of the marmot. And it's understandable that the government wants to stay in that loop, because it allows them to do nothing. Instead of doing, they are; they are in that continuous state of laziness, self - complacency and irresponsibility to which we are accustomed. It seems, for example, that seventeen of the points in the proposal for a law that we have received have been copied from Decree Ill 9/2009, from urgent measures in the matter of yield content in the lease agreements, and that the Council of Guarantees Statutes, in its opinion 4/2019 of 17 June, concluded that "they do not find employment in Article 129 of the Statute of Catalonia and violate Article 149.1.8 of the Spanish Constitution, since it makes the competence of the State on the basis of contractual obligations. This is not my opinion, it is not the opinion of the Member speaking to them, it is the conclusion to which the members of the Board of Guarantees Statutes, who are experts in law, arrived unanimously – it should be stressed –. You all know that this proposal for a law has no more recourse than its appeal to the Constitutional Court, which will end up expressing itself in the same terms because it is legally what it leads to. So what they are doing is not helping to make housing more accessible, but trying to use this concern of the citizenry in support of their political project, with the dishonesty of the trilero – it is a game of hands: put where they put the ball, we will always find that « have a state against, we already know them. And it is a pity that Podemos and the Llogaters Union end up participating in this game, because everything related to housing must be studied in depth in order to be able to solve the problems, which are very complex. Above all, bearing in mind that at the end of this game what there is is a reactionary objective, because this is the only way to qualify what is meant by the pretended sediently left-wing MP, who want to turn the fellow citizen into a foreigner, and thus break the space of political equality. It should be remembered that in a decentralized state each administration must act in accordance with its competences, and that the Generalitat has many. And if they worked hard, they could solve many of the social and economic problems that put at risk the equal opportunities, well-being and freedom of individuals. But they don't. Look, eight months ago, in this Parliament, a Citizens' motion was approved requesting Ivàlua to compare the public housing policies carried out by the different autonomous communities. They didn't. Why? Well, maybe because, despite the speeches we've heard here, Catalonia is the lowest percentage of budget allocated to housing policies. Specifically, the Government of the Generalitat, in relative terms, invests in housing half the measure of what the rest of the autonomous communities invest. And this is the reality of the budget that this Government and Podemos adopted, and that they cannot hide by much proposed law that they bring. As I said, the proposal does not seek to solve the housing problem but to build a narrative for the elections. And we are concerned about this problem, so we will not make populism with it, we will not make simplifications or act irresponsiblely. Do Members of this House want a new rental regulation? Let's take it to Congress, take it to Congress – you are ruling there – which is where the competition is. From Ciutadans we are willing to talk about it, but being cautious, because we must also prevent undesirable effects, such as the disincentive of renting in favour of the sale or the halting of the promotion of new homes. For this reason, we proposed, in a motion in this Parliament, that the effect of limiting rental prices for dwellings over thirty-five years old which had not been reformed be examined, but voted against. Maybe because they're more distressed and I don't need to study, I need to pull by the right even though... , even if the effects that can be achieved are detrimental to the objective being pursued. So it is better not to bring false solutions to make this populism cheap, this party, before the elections. They know that the text they want to adopt is outside the competence of this Parliament, that it cannot be applied and that in the meantime it will create legal uncertainty. And in the end, the problem will still be there, unsolved. They also know that the Regulation provides for a single reading for simple projects, and that is not the case, not only because it invades competences, which is why we will bring this proposal to the Council of Guarantees Statutes, but because in this matter, of simplicity, nothing. It is indeed a shame to see how parties that are at the head of the Generalitat and the head of the Spanish Government are more concerned about activism, the construction of narratives and populism than about the management of their competences. They certainly do so to hide their incompetence and a government work they cannot boast of, but citizenship deserves much more from their governments and their respective political representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the turn of Congresswoman Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the PSC Group - Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.123.0	Thank you, Vice President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellor, discuss the Proposition of the Law on Urgent Measures in the Field of Returns and Tenure Contracts, and we must confess that at the time of dealing with this debate we already have a view. For various reasons: for the content and the political moment in which it is presented. They bring us a proposal for law which is almost an exact copy of Decree 9/2019, a decree which we have already discussed in this Chamber and which, in the end, was rejected, because some of the groups that are now pushing this proposal for law voted against it. That decree was the object of a report of the Council of State Guarantees, which declared articles 1, 6 to 14, the third additional provision, the first transitory, the second and the third final provision unconstitutional. So, what can the groups that present this proposal of law that varies respect the constitutionality and the adequacy to the statutory framework of a regulation that is practically identical to that which was presented a little more than a year ago? What's the real reason why we're here doing this debate? And, above all, why did they want this debate to be done or passed on – this law is passed on – for a single reading, when its contents and its transcendence cannot be the object of this fast and watered down processing? Mrs. Segovia, you were talking about urgency. One thing is urgency and the other is unique reading; they are different processes, and the guarantees that groups have at the time of submitting statements and the terms are different. In fact, we don't really understand why in the two points that preceded us to this, that are also projects..., we propose that they go for one reading, the groups as common as in the Republican Left and Junts, have opposed them saying that they were projects that needed a more in-depth debate and work. The first had set articles, the second, one. You believe that this, that it has thirty-one articles and that it has more than a great social fall and it is of great transcendence, can you go through one reading? We don't think so. So, what's the interest, then? We think it's electoral interest; we can't see any more. I believe that all Members of this Parliament, whether we have housing concerns or not, are aware that we have a serious problem with housing. We have a problem with access, especially for certain collections, and we have a difficult problem in conservation, especially in those tense areas, at the expense of being very high, such as metropolitan areas and large cities. And before problems that affect a basic need, such as having a decent habitat, they have to look for and find solutions – solutions – that is, basic tools that capture the reality that we have. And the proposition of the law that they present to us today is not so, because it will not have recourse, and those who have driven it know it. No one escapes that we are at the end of the legislature, there is an imminent call for elections, and, therefore, the driving groups have seen at the political moment the possibility of making a good electoral holder. On the one hand, they will say that they have managed to regulate the prices of the habitats, which are pioneers, "we are going for the way of the most advanced countries of Europe, and, on the other, the groups that have made the confrontation with the Government of Spain the central axis of their political action, so, they will say "mirri", we already have another difficulty in being able to add to the list. But will it have any real use for this law to moderate the prices of the loggers? So, miri, we don't think so. They can tell us that they have the debate on the table, but it is the debate that is already there, and the Government of Spain, that it is the one to legislate this issue, that is already taking steps to achieve a moderation of the preus de lloger: they have regulated the preus de lloger, which was the step ahead of any other legislation and is working on a new Housing Law that will give the tools for the regulation of llogers for territorial administrations, autonomous communities and joint ventures. And this, this willingness to work, this regulation that the government is making, the government of the generality already knows it and the commons also know it. And, therefore, it is still less understood – it is still less understood – that the groups that give recollection to the government and the common ones push this regulation. And, look, the Spanish government is working on it. Yes, sirs, there's work going on and leaving the skin to provide the resources, to go looking for the resources and to provide the resources, because no one is left behind in this crisis. It's not demagogic, it works. And we can perfectly understand that there are entities around which the loggers that defend their interests and search for all the possible keys so that they are collected. We share his goal, we share some of his positions; what we can never do is do our job badly to satisfy his short-term demands, knowing that they are father by today and win by tomorrow. This proposal for law that you bring here today has no recourse and will not be of any use to anyone else who needs it, and you know it. And this desire to do things badly, to want to look good, more than not to actually solve the problems, has led them even to steal the necessary parliamentary debate from this law. Can you really tell us that a law of such an important and sensitive subject can be dealt with for a single reading? , without a deep debate, without expert appearances? Actions such as these, Members and Members, devalue our Parliament and our function as legislators. And it's that we're convinced that we need to debate, and very much, with experts whether the Berlin model, which seems to be what it is that is to be replicated in Article 11 of the proposal that they put to us, is the most adjunct in Catalonia or not, because our reality is not German. And we need to discuss and assess whether, for example, the concept of "work of improvement that allows us to overcome the limit of the logger is too broad and whether, just as it passed to Germany, it can end up feeling the door to the non-compliment of the norm, and, therefore, if it would be possible to narrow it down somehow. Or the general expenses and individual services that can be attributed to the lease: can this be a way for the loggers to pay some expenses that can end up being very important? Or the third transitory provision: are you convinced that the municipalities to which they refer in their first apartment agree that the declaration as a housing market area only last one year, for example? These other points of this need data to hold a solid base. They need the opinion of experts in the field of housing representing different sectors and different interests. And, finally, it needs broad consensus, more than this law applies to and from those they have sought. It is not possible to legislate in this way, based on the electoral urgency, the decision on the passage of a law. We cannot vote in favour of it, and we deeply regret the electoral use of this subject, which is an important issue in this way only by seeking a bunch of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.124.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word of deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.125.0	Thank you, Vice President. Vice-President of the Government, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members and Members, this is an dishonest proposal. It's a movie name, but it's not a movie. It's a reality and it's a dishonest proposition for two reasons, one for the content and the most innovative, the time and the time when this proposal of law is presented: the last week of the session period, because you're going to the last plenary for a single reading of which probably is also the last plenary of the legislature. But it's also for the content and you know it perfectly, because practically the same content was presented in Parliament in Decree 9/2019, it was rejected by the chamber. It is true that some of the groups that voted against that decree today sign a bill of apparent characteristics. That's it. But let me tell you that whatever you're asking for this proposal from the law, which is the regulation of the renders of the loggers, is part of a diagnosis we share. It's true, there's a problem with the loggers; it's absolutely true. As a result of the economic and financial crisis, the market has preferred the option of the logger rather than the option of the purchase, for many other reasons, difficulties also in the case of purchases. And this has obviously strained the prices to the rise. And it's made that there's this problem that has increased significantly more in the evolution of wages. These tensions have been generated in the logger market. Let me – as Mr Morral has already told us – share the composition of the property of the dwellings – he spoke of the metropolitan area, I speak of the conjunct of Catalonia – it is 93_percent of small owners. So, when we talk about great condescensions, when we talk about soft foundations, we're talking about a percentage, the truth, very small. But the truth is that you, the groups that support the government and the government, have the skills in housing, but in change, in iron and steel accounts, they insist on regulating prices. They have, as we have already mentioned, the antecedents of the Law Decree and the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees which, of course, has read a small fragment, but of twenty articles which had the Law Decree, seven unconstitutional, four constitutional. I'm saying this because it's not worth reading a single paragraph, the one who gives the reason to someone, but it's worth reading the whole document. But, moreover, we are convinced, apart from the question of competence, that we are convinced that intervention of the prices of the market of the loguer has negative effects. And the first effect is the reduction of the offer, is to say, if the yield that the owner takes from it is to be inferior to that which they are carrying under certain conditions, then opt for another use of that habitat. But on the assumption that you're keeping the housing in place. If you get less income, you will also invest less in maintaining that habitat and, as a result, the habitability conditions of the housing stock will deteriorate. And, in the worst case scenario, the fact that there are tops to try to lodge a habitation, can promote that there is a black market and that, therefore, there are payments below hand to try to mock the law, which I imagine is not, much less, what they claim. The result of these measures is a reduction in the number of dwellings intended to be used. What was I supposed to do? So we believe that whatever it takes to do... Certainly, in this sense it has not been mentioned, only the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees has been cited, but it is also very illustrative of all these aspects the report of the Catalan Authority of Competition in relation to Decree 9/2019, which refers precisely to all these issues and is also a body presided over by a person close to the Government and which disclaims, in turn, all the arguments of that decree. So, what was I supposed to do? Therefore, it is necessary to exercise the skills in housing: to invest in social housing. They have mechanisms, they have possibilities to do it, they have to do it, and that's what they don't do. Increasing the offer is the best way to contain prices. It's the best way. Exercising skills in habitating. Miri, I've had a little bit of a time looking for cash. Paris, 22_percent of social logger habitat. Berlin, 30.23_percent of social logger habitat. London, 24_per_cent. New York, bressol of capitalism, 41_per_cent. Barcelona, Barcelona...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.126.0	Vagi ending, Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.127.0	U per cent, 1_per_cent. That's the problem. That's the problem. With all the responsibility that has been demanded, our group will vote against the single reading of this bill, basically because it does not complete it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.128.0	Ahabi, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.129.0	...to what the Rules of Parliament say, which is that it has to be a simple rule. This, obviously, isn't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.130.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. The debate is over, the record that the vote will take place this late, once the 9th item of the order of the day has been substantiated. I was also informed by the Secretary General a while ago that most groups have asked that the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry into the Times of August 17 and 18, 2017 is moved to tomorrow. ( The Justice Counselor asks to speak.) Yeah? I ask the councillor to intervene at this point, I did not have it registered, but obviously, as a member of the Government, I can always intervene.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.131.0	Thank you, President. He had asked for the word to intervene and had announced that he would do so. Well, then, before the difficult situation of emergence and housing vulnerability in a context of permanent escalation of the price of the logger, we have the duty to act to guarantee everyone the right to a decent habitation. The strong pressure of the priests of the Llogor caused and caused..., caused very difficult economic difficulties in order to be able to access the habitation and to be able to-roman. An even worse situation... or it got worse for the Covid-19 pandemic, which caused an unprecedented health crisis and, as a result, a new economic crisis and a social crisis. Because a person has a decent life, he must also have the right to a decent habitat; he must have the right to hold a footbridge. So, if we don't face the abuse price, if we don't set limits to the increase in the price, housing will never be a right. And today they present four parliamentary groups, in the exercise of their own skills in Catalonia, in the development of civil law. I make them a reminder. When we regulate the hereditary right, when we regulate contract law and talk about the price, we also have an economic impact on the life of this country and on the society we have. Therefore, we have skills to regulate habitats, we have skills to regulate their contracts. And that's what we're doing with this project... in this proposal, forgive me, of the law. The proposition of the law we are debating today is not the result of improvisation. Some have already referred to it. It's the fruit of a job coming from the moon. Among this work that goes on a long time is the work of social entities, of civil society and, some, carried through the Trade Union of Llogateres, social entities, associations of vehicles... Mostly, it goes on a long time and also sees this mandate, of a mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia, by means of Motion 84/12 of the Republic Group, which was approved on May 9, 2019, in which the Government of Catalonia urged urgently to promote the adoption of legislative measures in the framework of the civil law in order to allow Catalonia to count with a regulation close to the contracts of urban leases and, in particular, to provide public administrations with those and necessary to limit the credentials of urban areas. In addition to this mandate, the Government of the Generality approved Decree No. 9/2019 of 21 May 2019 on urgent measures to contain yields in housing leases, which, as explained above, was not validated. We are competent and exercise our competence, despite the unthankful and unthankful that someone thinks that our civil right is residual: it is not. However, one year later, we can only reaffirm the need to limit the increase in the price of winemakers to our country and to do so, as I said, by exercising the skills in which we have competence, which is in the matter of civil law. Habitat has become more of a good than a right, and there are many families who suffer invisible noises and have to leave their habitat because they cannot cope with the increase of the logue that is required, when they are not directly denuded. And, unfortunately, during the past year, far from ending, gentrification, poverty and social inequality have continued to advance unstoppably and continue to do so as we debate which is the best way to respond to it. And today we have heard it again in this Parliament. In the later year, the price increase was widespread in the country and especially in Barcelona and its metropolitan area. Long to stop, it's still accentuating. I told them that the proposition of the law we are debating today is not the result of improvisation. It is an initiative arising from the agreement between the Trade Union of Llogateres and, in this case, the Department of Justice, after many months of negotiation, of a year of negotiation. A rule that presupposes the limitation of the price of the logger preventing the disproportionate increase of the price of the leases. I would like to thank the Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana, Catalunya in Comú Pode and the CUP that has been made..., this text, that has been made its own, that has been agreed and that, therefore, has presented this proposal of law. Without your generosity today we would not be here presenting this proposal for the fruit of the covenant, of the accord. The pacts honor, the pacts are the basis of our right and of our tradition, therefore, the initiative agreed between the Trade Union of Lodgers and the Department of Justice, which now begins its processing through this law proposal, allows the Administration to qualify, certain areas of the territory, areas with housing markets, and subject the leases that are enclosed in a yield containment regime. I repeat: yield containment. It is a measure limited in time – limitation of the duration of the measure – which can be declared with a maximum duration of five years in a procedure in which it can be shown the circumstances justifying it and the measures taken by the administrations to mitigate or reverse the market situation. The competence to formulate this declaration is attributed to the department of the Generality competent in the matter of housing, with the exception of the city of Barcelona and the metropolitan area of Barcelona, obviously because of its uniqueness, because of its problem and, indeed, because it has the legal standards to be able to do so. Now, I am aware that we cannot lose a day more to deal with the abusive preus of housing and all that is derived from this high growth of preus– that, I repeat, it is: social inequalities, denunciations, gentrification, expulsion of people with less resources and general difficulties to access an exceptional habitation– and that it is necessary to give an urgent response to the situation of housing emergence that is suffering, even more so as the consequence of the economic effects that we are already seeing from the Covid-19 pandemic and take into account the duration of the procedures administered by the administration of housing market declarations, the new standard formulates and directly applies these declarations to the municipality that have the superior inhabitants of Barcelona in the context of the previous 20 years. We are talking about sixty municipalities in our country where the prices of the winemaker have increased in the last few years to an absolutely excessive rate. In Barcelona six years ago a score of seventy-four_metres_squares cost seven hundred_euros. Now it's worth a thousand. It's an increase of over 40 percent. We couldn't keep our arms folded. It's been a year since the Department of Justice presented a text. It's been a year since we've been working on a text. We've been working with civil society for a year. And today we are celebrating that, finally, we have come to terms, so that we can present this bill's proposal, that the parliamentary groups have made it theirs the parliamentary groups that sign the bill's proposal, and that, so... that it focuses on the work done for the Llogateres Union for many years. We had to sort and we did. We would have to sort between excesses of the back ground or the protection of the weakest, between the wealth without limits or the right to decent habitat; between the gentrification or the preservation of the barrels. We've sorted it out. And this proposition of the law is the proof that we have sorted and at the side of which we want to be. We're raising a wall against abuse, we're giving it enough and we're putting a limit on the lobbyist's price. To finish my intervention, I would like to insist that I am particularly pleased that the initiative is being carried out by means of a bill. I am convinced that measures like these require maximum social consensus – before they mentioned it – but also maximum parliamentary consensus, which we have; we are the four groups that sign the bill's proposal. That is why it is very positive that four very diverse, very different parliamentary groups have jointly presented this initiative. It's all an act of generosity that can be put in value. And that's what I want to express in my intervention. As well as putting in value the generosity of the Llogateres Union throughout the drafting process of the initiative. It is a proposal of law that, for the first time in Catalonia and at the conjunct of the Spanish State, will allow to limit the prices of the logger. And we do... I insist on this, and we do it in the exercise of our civil rights skills. And, in the end, that's what they explain many times, isn't it? , the drop of water ends up drilling the stone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.132.0	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor. In accordance with Article 85 of the Rules of Procedure, this intervention shall be carried out by the groups in a proportional manner. Therefore, the groups will now have two minutes each, one minute for the subgroup. If they want to use it, obviously. Therefore, in the same order that they have intervened at the beginning of the debate, they could do so. Therefore, in the first place, has the word the deputy Susanna Segovia, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.133.0	Thank you. I wanted to make it clear that it tastes hard for groups that have insisted once and for all on the subject, but it's not the same decree as it was a year ago. It is not the same decree, even though there are articles that are found in the same legal instrument, therefore, to lay down the regulation of loguers, but it is not the same content. One year ago we had social organizations and movements saying that the decree of a year ago was a fake decree, that it had so many holes, so many exceptions and so many cases that, in practice, it did not exercise regulation of the real loguers. In this case, you have Llogateres Union and thousands of entities that have given support to a manifesto that gives support to this initiative said this time yes. Therefore, something must have changed in the contents. And I understand that if they read it in detail they see that it has significantly changed which is the logger's regulation model, which are the tops that are in place, and how the exceptions that allow and the drill that allowed the previous decree have been eliminated. Therefore, in this sense, nor that it is out of respect for the work that has been done by the Trade Union of Lodgers and other organizations, I would not insist on the idea that it is the same decree. It's just that it's not for the groups that voted against it at the time and now we support it, it's because of an organization that's saying that this time, yes. Therefore, I believe that, at least, this fact must be recognized. It is also true that the whole issue is being said – and has been said several times – that it is an electoral and/or populist issue. I will not go into the subject of 'populist' because, moreover, I, for myself, if 'populist' understands that it is working for the people, so look, yes, populist, what we will do. What we're doing is just the opposite; it's, despite the fact that some elections are coming, it's putting the interests of the citizenry ahead of us. And despite the fact that for us electorally, at least, it might not be appropriate for this regulation to be adopted in this mandate and with this government, we are putting ourselves at the side of people and what we do not want is to generate even greater uncertainty. We believe that this issue must be resolved before there are any elections. And that's why it's urgent, yes. An urgent reading wouldn't give us time, surely, so we're going to a single reading. That we would have liked to do it in another way, it is also true, but the uncertainties of the legislature have not been made either by us, that we should ask the government of President Torra and Vice President Aragones, that if we could clarify a little more when we have a few elections, we would know whether we had more time or not to do that better. I want to insist, if Madrid is working on the regulation of loggers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.134.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.135.0	...that this initiative is needed to move forward and move faster, not to wait for us to work in another place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.137.0	Well, Junts' representative for Catalonia said that he did some things without misrepresenting the law's intent and experience. So, look, for what you've explained, the papers you've submitted are against the regulation's experiment by allowing abusive bidding on all floors that are under the index and, more importantly, there are exceptions for those that are above the index. It opens up the possibility, moreover, of increasing, with difficult forms of proof, the price of logging up to 20_per_cent, saying all kinds of better that may have been made to the living place. Besides, what he does is push the price of housing on many occasions, but more about Figueres, Salou and Tortosa, you. But it's that in these populations it's pushed the loguer three points above the IPC. Can you tell us how much I am, in these villages, of people, in relation to this same index? Miri, you say that the regulation does not apply if the owner charges less than 3,200_euros. How many people charge less than €3,200? In which world do they live?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.138.0	Congresswoman, thank you. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr. José Rodríguez has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.139.0	Thank you, President. Let's go back to listening another time to the story of the hortola, which neither pinks the bone nor lets it pink. We come here that the State will already do it and that it will do better. Look, the State has promised us, the Government of the State, that it would repeal the law bite, it would continue in force, it would repeal the labor reform, it would continue in force, and now it's telling us that it's going to take a price check at the lodge, and why have they done..., what does it say? , which have advanced in the publication of a follow-up of data and prices. One thing the Generalitat already does, and it makes it better. But, listen, the problem is not that we go...; the problem is not competitive, it is that we go forward. For a while to life we go before the State. The State, in fact, I don't know when it will repeal the law, when it will repeal the labor reform or when it will regulate the prices of lloguer. Today we can regulate the prices of lloger. You have this opportunity to do it. With respect to the Junts Group for Catalonia, listen, the discussions of an agreement that is made by four parties with two councils may be presented in another way. Do you think we didn't want to do papers on the housing decree that was presented earlier? We didn't do it. We didn't do it because we thought the dialog was through the government. We didn't do it. I demand this same loyalty to the governing partner. And again, I insist, this bill is not of the independenceists, because there are parties that are not; it is not of the Government, because there are parties that are not of the Government; it is not of the left groups, because there is a group that is not of the left; it is not of the social movements, because it is also of the Government and political parties; it is of all, but especially of the citizens that are threatened because they can push the price at any time. From whom this is not the law, it is the speculators, who do affect the priests of everyone's loguers. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.140.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mr Antoni Morral. Forward. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] When he wants to, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.141.0	In fact, this bill of law, which we share its purpose as I have very well manifested, let us say, in the intervention of before, forces us to do something that we need to do to lower the price of the loguer, that at these times they are abusive and have certainly been painting a very important increment these last few times. Therefore, we participate in this idea, we participate in the content of this bill, but what we also seem to have is that we have the concrete reality of the country. And in this sense the concrete reality of the country forces us to lay down some..., to have present the areas of high intensity of price, that does not overcome, eh? And that those families that they have make that somehow they can't afford to pay for it can do it with the help that they can donate. So, it's true that there are many owners who have many logists and who play to speculate, and here is where we have to carve, certainly, therefore, the measurements, because there is no hint of speculation. In this sense, we share the law's proposition, but it seems to us that the two items that we present substantially improve, so, this bill of law, and that I invite in some way that are read carefully, so we can actually approve the divendres, if that's the case, so, this bill of law with the highest possible consensus, which, as has been said, a law of these characteristics requires and also deserves to enjoy all social and political consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.142.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.143.0	... because somehow it can be assumed by the company's joint venture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.144.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergio Sanz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.145.0	Thank you, President. Well, clear up, right? So... we saw the advisor who was making a very strong defense, insisting on the ability to compete, but this ability to regulate the logists seems to me that the Board of Guarantees does not share it, so... Besides, it does not share it unanimously, because a good part of what they have presented to us... so the Board of Guarantees has already pronounced it. What can be said is that, with the same regulation as other autonomous communities, Catalonia has better indicators than others, such as the number of denunciations, with a higher price increase, and above all that it is inverted here in accordance with the general assumption of the Generality than half that it is inverted by means of the rest of autonomous communities in accordance with its own assumptions. And that might explain a lot. Because there has been talk here that it is not intended to speculate, but also to remember that, at Ciutadans' initiative, it has presented itself many times initiative because the Generalitat does not come to private residential land to make public habitation, and the Generalitat has been cashing these lands to the maximum price that the market admits to them. We have insisted many times that this sheltered habitat should be made in residential land, public housing, in Rubí, Viladecans, Sant Adriana, in various places where there has been pressure from priests, and they have come to the lands because the private ones may have speculated, perhaps, in their words, right? Or in his opinion, better said, forgive. Then, of course, we have to think: "But does this have to protect the most unprotected in society? A call for help was opened and at the end of 15 days it was suspended. They've left a lot of common ground to expect from their administration something more than political statements, and here come to make this partisan spectacle, which we've even seen before between the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, with the intervention of Mr. Rodriguez, who we've seen as they've already stood in the electoral plane, but even among the very presenters of the initiative, haven't we? So I think it's not good, just like the press index isn't working either. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] There's a lot to improve on. And I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.146.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.147.0	Thank you. Well, counselor, she told us that someone thought the Catalan civil law was residual. We've never thought about this. In fact, we socialists have been great drivers of the Catalan civil law, because we know that civil law is preferable and the common right is subsidiary. But that's not civil law or whether it's subsidiary or whether it's preferential, it's material. And in this matter, the Council of State Guarantees, formed by people who know a lot about civil law, told them that this was not a matter that we could develop or legislate from Catalonia. He told us: "The pacts are honoured. And our responsibility as legislators is not to be honored? Our work as legislators? So, if it's to be honored, what we have to do first of all is do it well. And not just for formal aspects, which may seem smaller to us, but to take firm steps precisely for those people who have the hardest to get a habitation. And, to Mrs Segóvia, if you were standing next to the people or working for the people to give them security, which is what they were saying, you would do well, you would work well and you would not be taking a step forward to make us two. And it seems that this security doesn't even have the same groups that push the law, especially the government groups, where we have seen here a bump that has given us another episode of this divided and totally fractional government. We don't think we're just gonna have to ask them to do the right thing in the habitation, but to do the right thing in total and to call for a once-elected election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.149.0	Thank you, President. Well, now we have another perspective on this bill's proposal, because it seems to me that, more than a bill's proposal with a well-defined goal, it's more of an episode of fighting between Republican Left and Juntas for Catalonia. In fact, we were already very surprised by the convergents, or those of the PDECAT, or the PDECUP variant, or Joints for the Yes, or Joints for CAT, or Joints, or as you say, donessin support of a bill proposal of these characteristics, but now – now – see how they pull them between yourselves, we see exactly who this scene is. Counsel, you are convinced that they have the skills. We are convinced that, the skills for this, you do not have them. Listen, I'm not sorry, to get out of doubt, because I'm convinced that you would never need to skip either the Statute or the Constitution, not to worry, we'll take it another time to the Statutory Guarantee Board because it dictates if it actually completes the Statute and completes the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.150.0	All right. The debate is over, the memory that this point is going to vote, like the rest, at the end of this late meeting. [[Decree-Law No 24/2020 of 16 June of extraordinary measures in the field of personnel]] [[203-00049/12]] So let's move on to the next point of the order of the day, which is the set, which is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 24/2020, of 16 June, of extraordinary measures in personnel matters. To defend him, on behalf of the Government, has the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.151.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, appear again in front of the chamber to defend the validation of a decree by law, from which we have been enacting since the Epidemic of the Covid-19, with the intention of updating the standard mark, with the intention of accelerating what are the instruments of the Government of Catalonia in order to cope with the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, also for instruments from the legislative and organizational point of view of the Generality. This week, therefore, in the plenary of this week, we bring to validation Decree 24/2020, which we agreed the Government on June 16th and which focuses on remunerative measures in the field of health and staff in the field of residences. Probably, this decree is, therefore, the last of the decrees we have adopted to respond to the multiple needs and problems that this health crisis is causing in the day-to-day life of our citizens. From the end of the state of alarm, we were born when the virus was still running between us, which meant taking the utmost precautions. And according to the bursts and bursts that we are at these times, so, all those who had been insisting on this message of utmost caution were uncertain. We will have to learn, therefore, to coexist with viruses until we have an effective vaccine. Therefore, this need, this awareness that we will have to live with viruses over the next few years, we need to have it very present and, at the same time, we need to know how to plan the future with all these conditions. What we also need to do with political responsibility is to work together to cooperate, to do so together, to coordinate the joint work of the institutions. We have very much in mind the patience that a very important part of our citizenship is living, and, therefore, also, as I have done in all other interventions defending the different decrees of the law, so appeal to this will of consent. We have the opportunity to agree, to put all the effort and all of it on a voluntary basis. This we have done, and we have done with measures in the economic and social sphere. Yesterday, we signed the national agreement for establishing the basis for economic recovery and social protection; we did so from the government, with union and employers' organisations. Today, the government has approved the Pla for economic recovery and social protection, with different measures, which are fully aligned with the objectives of sustainable development of the 2030 United Nations Agenda, with the European Green Deal, and, finally, also with the needs of our society and our economy to rebuild in a different way, more equitable, fairer, with more opportunities for everyone, after the coronavirus pandemic. But let us go, beyond these questions, which are very relevant, to the content of the decree; it refers basically to professionals in the field of salvation and to the need and convenience that there is, therefore, an extraordinary remuneration, according to productivity, to convert to what we have often said in this faristol, which is: to pass applause to the balcony to the fact. And, therefore, this decree reads what it does is to turn applause into facts; it is to recognize the professionals of our country's salvation, the professionals of our country's public health system, the extraordinary effort that they have had to make, that they are doing and that, unfortunately, until there is a vaccine, they will have to make, in order to cope with the pandemic, the pandemic of the Covid-19. The basis of our national health system is the collection of professionals who are part, as before, and of their professionalism in terms of the quality of public health care. The World Health Organization, since it declared on March 11 the situation of pandemic, we have seen as the professionals of salvation, as the professionals who serve in the centers of social services of residential character, of great people, of intellectual disability, of physical disability, we have seen as they have been fighting the Covid-19 directly, a little bit of bed, we can say, a little of ICU, a little of residence, in very complex conditions that have entailed a physical and emotional wear and tear, has also, in many cases, assumed the infection of these professionals, and, unfortunately, in some cases, of these professionals, have lost their lives or seen their health severely affected. Therefore, there is a recognition of this extraordinary effort, a recognition that it is sufficient, that it is appropriate, and that it is also in agreement with the organization from the professional point of view and also from the point of view of the service of our system of salvation. For all this it was very necessary for this decree to finally materialize these measures aimed at recognizing the involvement and compromise of all these professionals, who have shown that we can never be very grateful to them, yet are aware that neither this recognition nor this extraordinary remuneration nor any other, will be able to compensate for the effort that has been made, which went beyond a question of willingness, therefore, of receiving a remuneration. He was grateful to the compromise with salvation, with the citizens, the compromise with his work. This decree therefore lays down which are these extraordinary measures in personnel matters through the three additional articles and the four additional provisions and a final provision. Article 1 establishes and creates this extraordinary productivity complement to the health professionals with the motivation of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is done for the staff of the Catalan Institute of Health, and then it is, through the additional arrangements, for all the staff of the Siscat, of the Catalan public access health system, which have served effectively between March 1 and May 31, 2020; it is also done with a barem in function of professional categories, and also of the percentage of face work, because we are aware that everyone has been making an effort to overcome the coronavirus. This complement ranges from 350 to 1,350_euros, according to these barems he was explaining right now. It also establishes an extraordinary productivity complement to the professionals who have served the residents of large people, people with intellectual disabilities and physical disabilities, also during the same period, from 1 March to 31 May 2020, and with rewards ranging from, therefore, in the case of a collection of professionals, five hundred euros, and the rest of the collections to residents, nine hundred euros. Also, let's say, in the sense of predicting the cases in which there was no such effective service for bass, differentiate it from the bass for Covid, or from the winging because of being in contact with Covid, in which it does recognize full-time, therefore, what is the perception of this pay. As such, the additional provisions, therefore, extend to the whole scope of application of the Siscat, to all entities affiliated to the Català de Salut Service and to health transport undertakings contracted for the Català de la Salut Service, or to the system of medical emergencies, which is this extraordinary remuneration, this extraordinary productivity complement which is recognised in Article 1. It is also envisaged, in the case of residences which are not owned by the Generality, that they are not workers of the Generality..., therefore, the Department of Treball, Afers Socials and Family is empowered, in this case, to a specific call for direct assistance to workers of the private centres of social services of residential character, of large people, intellectual and physical disability, which are financed in whole or in part in public form, also according to the criteria laid down in the article of the Decree. Therefore, what we do with this decree is a measure that Catalonia has advanced, which has been from the first territories to bring this gratification to an end. We are well aware that this is a first step. It is a first step in the path of a remunerative adequacy in the health field that we have to take in our own years, which is one of the challenges from the presuppositional point of view of the public health sector. There are many other challenges: all the need to increase the number of professionals, beyond pay; better professional career; also the need for technological improvement, investment, but also the need to adapt to it all that is medicine policy and research-related policy. They're the great reptes. We start from a financing model that places underfunded health. There are different studies published, presented, and endorsed by the professional organizations of the sector, which place this gap in about 5,000_million, this difference between the current funding and the funding that would be desirable, which would be appropriate in the area of the Health Department, only in Catalonia. Therefore, we must mark this objective. But we are marking this objective..., which is certainly ambition, because the expenditure deserved, the expenditure incurred the year before the Health Department was around 11,000_million euros; this year, therefore, we will have to increase it, approximately 1,800_million euros more, but it remains very far away. So we're talking about an increment of 5,000 million, which would be desirable, so it's a very big leap forward. This doesn't have to be the excuse not to start walking. And this reward, this extraordinary complement, that tries, therefore, and pursues this goal of transforming those applause that we gave to the balconies into a specific recognition, and so, as with all the workers, a recognition from the pay point of view, is a first step. There is a whole initiative in the field of the same Department of Health, with the inter-departmental commission, to advance in the financing of the system. We also have, on the part of the Government, a group, therefore, of experts in the field of salvation who will also make their proposals for the future of the system. So, we have the path done, we have the path drawn, but we have to start taking small steps. This proposal, which will take effect during the month of August..., despite some information that came out in the last few days, today, therefore, also, before the chamber I explain that it will be all ready, all prepared, resources, and all on the way because it can be done in the name of August, in the field of salvation. We believe that this, therefore, in some information we had seen publications could be in doubt, and, probably, in some organizational aspects, it seemed so, but today, before the chamber, expressed, therefore, that this will bring to fruition, this gratification, during the month of August, with the name of August. And, therefore, the government is already on its way to make it easier and that is possible. This is the first step. We think it's a necessary step, recognition. Probably, therefore, depending on the points of view, everyone will consider that there would be some aspect that could be improved in some line or another, but it would take the step. And we need to do it now, because, after a first wave that has been extremely hard, we see how we can not lower the guard and we also need the health professionals of this country to note that they have the combination of political representatives, that they have the government and that they have, in the end, the citizenship, that they are the ones who have entrusted to us the management of public matters and of the resources that they are of all... that they see that they have them at their side. And with this decree we prove that we are on his side, that we want to be on his side and that we are taking this first step; that it is a first step, because, obviously, the pandemic has put the good part of those debates that we have here in the room of the need to improve resources in the health field, yes, but not because these debates are going to stop walking. And in that, I insist, this is the first step, which I think is absolutely essential. Therefore, it is up to the parliamentary groups to validate this decree so that during the month of August it is possible to make the payment of this complement that recognizes the professionals of salvation and of the residents of our country the great work that they have done during these months. Many thanks, Mr President, you will advise, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.152.0	Thank you, Vice President. Let us now move to the position of the parliamentary groups. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs. Blanca Victoria Navarro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.153.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Vice-Presidents, in the midst of the pandemic, with the troops of health and social health personnel exhausted, disappointed and frightened by their management, announced an extra fee to thank them for their good work during the pandemic. They had had to live emotionally dramatic situations, had had to work exposed to the coronavirus without sufficient protection and had to do endless shifts, but it seemed that what you wanted with this decree was to silence your discontent and your threats of strike. Because on the cuts in the salaries of 2010 that never reverted, on the cuts in the staff and the consequent care overload, on the cuts in the rates of residences, on the cuts in primary care in Catalonia – the autonomous community that has had the most cuts in primary care during the last ten years, up to 25_per_cent, cuts that did not reverse –, above all, the coronavirus came and the professionals had to work on this system with a tremendous overload, as it said, without the necessary protection and linking endless shifts, and they did, and 30_per_cent of the health care workers from all over Spain infected are workers from Catalonia. On the other hand, in the Catalan residences there have been more than fifteen_ thousand contagions and more than four_ thousand deaths, and with this, without a doubt, the shortcomings of this sector have been put on the table. The sector is demanding more protection resources, more foresight in the isolation of contagion, more staff and more funding to be able to have better working conditions. And when some and other professionals begin to complain about the conditions in which they have had to face the pandemic and all the previous structural deficiencies, they take this secret out of the sleeve to shut their mouths, because they know they are right. But they are late, because besides the merit of getting, by distributing money, that some collectives and others, all, are angry and no one is happy, what if they had agreed? What if they'd listened to them? What if they had listened to their proposals and their needs? Because, with this plus, it's that not even the doctors, who are the ones who want to give the most, are going to be happy. The opposition has already been told that they are not listening to us, that despite the proposals we have been making from the beginning of the pandemic and our hand stretched out to get out of this together – together – from this dramatic situation, he has already told us that he is not listening to us. But the question is not to listen to us, who have met with more than one hundred and fifty entities, what we want is for them to listen to what the associations have transmitted to us from what their needs are and what their concerns are. Our priority in this pandemic is to save lives and jobs. And, as it should also be their only priority, we will continue and continue to present the proposals, because some of the measures they want to implement are already telling them both from primary health care and from homes that are insufficient. There is a need to implement measures for child care. We have presented them with more than a hundred measures to improve the situation of the great people in front of the new waves of the pandemic. This Parliament has already approved twice that they strengthen the mental health teams to attend to, to ensure the care of the population. But it is that everything that we present to you from the opposition is happening Olympicly; not to us anymore, but to us, but what entities and associations bring to us. We do not ask them to listen to us; we ask them to listen to the collectives who want to get this tip. Of course we agree that they recognize the effort, we have been telling them since the first proposals we are sending them, but as they are not read...Listen to them; listen to them. If they want to recognize their effort, the first thing they have to do is listen to them, not pretend to continue to endure a new wave of the coronavirus under lamentable conditions, because, if they heard them, they would know that with this decree they will not be content with any of the collectives they want to reach them, nor will they be able to silence their demands, and more when it is not clear that they will be able to do so in August, and more when it is the medical unions themselves that are telling them that you are more concerned about the process than about saving lives and facing the pandemic, and they themselves are the ones calling them negligent, and more when health professionals and residences, before receiving this recognition, have already received the "gift of a new wave of the pandemic for their mismanagement". Two thousand trackers should have been hired to be effective, to avoid community transmission; they have hired less than two hundred, and today they have gone out saying they will hire five hundred more. Two thousand – two thousand – for the population they have to attend, they are the ones that are essential for them to be effective. They have also spent 18_million in Ferrovial, which have not only been disorbited and suspected of favoring family members, but also it is obvious, obvious, that they are totally ineffective. This is the great shame with which we find ourselves. They have eighty_and_nine cases for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants during the last fifteen days, and, above fifty, it is already known that it is a totally uncontrolled situation. What are you going to do now? Because they do not invest in prevention, they are having to ask the population for a new confinement for which they have no competence, and the economic consequences will be aggravated. And they put the health and social health system and its professionals, who want to recognize the effort, back into a situation of commitment, over-requirement and over-effort. I wonder: "After the second wave, are you going to give them another tip again? They should not continue to bandit, they should not continue to improvise and they should not continue to act. And if you have to ask the Government of Spain for help with the confinement, ask for it. And if you have to support yourself in the opposition, support yourself. And if you have to ask for help from the UME, the army, whoever it is, do it. But spare no effort to protect our health and social health professionals and to save the lives of our citizens. Listen to them and listen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the honourable Member Assumpta Escarp has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.155.0	President... Good afternoon. So I think we all start the same, don't we? The Vice President of the Government also said: from applause to recognition. That's how we've said it many times here. We have also given thanks to the health professionals, to the residents, to the workers of social services, to whom the most vulnerable, to safety, to the food chain and to all who have made our survival possible in difficult times. And now that we recognize it, I do not want to fail to recognize the services of the chamber that have made possible the continuity of parliamentary activity. They all deserve our gratitude and our recognition. The professionals of salvation and of residences have shown us effort, skill and struggle against a pandemic all this time; while, at the end of the day, they seem to be coming back darker and uncertain, but we also know that there will be again professionals who will age for our protection. I'd like to use the words of Aroa López Martín, a nursing emergency supervisor in the Hebron Valley. She said to us in the act of the other day: "Let us never forget the lesson taken: who behind the EPIs was no hero, we are people who have experienced situations that we do not want to live again. But above all, some words will hit me; say: "Remember that there is no greater tribute to those who left us than to ensure our health and to guarantee the dignity of our professions – "to guarantee the dignity of our professions, I repeat because I believe it is worth it. The law decree, in its presentation of motius, recognizes the involvement and compromise of professionals and provides as compensation for extraordinary productivity complements. In fact, the French have arranged for them, we would say, the professionals, and, in fact, they will already charge twice as much as our professionals cover. And before I get into compensation, I'd like to make a few points. If we want to dignify professions and recognize their commitment, we would have to start by returning lost and lost rights, working conditions and those under which the details of More and Boi Ruiz were made to intejoressin, all their conditions. If we really consider Catalonia's system of salvation as an essential service, we should have a reflex of the same in the assumptions of the Generality. If we really want to recognise the involvement of the professionals, we should start to abandon the policy of externalization of health transport, of 061, of the medical service of residences and home care. If we defend a public health and dignify, we hire the staff to cover the needs of primary care and cover all structural vacancies, thus returning the services lost to the citizenry, so that we have a strong primary care, complete with exit agreements from the vacancy. But they won't, they'll pay an extraordinary salary, and they'll charge the primary attention again for missing Covid's detection and surveillance services, the health care for the residents, and the post-Covid follow-up. That it is clear, because I think it is worth saying, that the professionals of any category and scope of work, if they are from the ICS, will not recover the part of the pay that they still do not recover the paid sum, and if they are from the Siscat, they will not see their son nor the conditions of work to the ICS nor will they continue to ensure the collection of the DPOs, they will continue to feel the most paid professionals of Europe; nor the professions with precarious contracts, and they will see that they have not, with eternal internations, been stabilized their contract; nor will they complement the nursing reports that are necessary. Therefore, we could say that this decree neither recovers lost rights..., and, moreover, the decision was made unilaterally – I think that it was said before the deputy Navarro –; there was no type of negotiation with the social workers, rather, the unions rose from the table because they gave them absolutely done. Essential sectors have been forgotten because they are outsourced, such as home care, clean workers and health transport workers working in private businesses. It is established in the decree of residences, and it was said before the vice president, some calls for specific help for those who are not purely public– is to say, the majority, because publics do not arrive at the 7_per_cent–, and at the moment they do not know about the call for nothing, and neither do they believe that companies can move forward, as they said at the time. It is worth remembering the role of many workers in the residential environment during the Covid, so we recognized them in the extraordinary plenary, and we also asked for the best of their training and their working conditions. I would like to end by talking about remuneration, which in the background is what the decree says, this decree that does not recognize dignity but, in any case, establishes a remuneration. "Complement," he says, "will be perceived as a concept of extraordinary productivity and will consist of a single amount that will be proportional to face-to-face work time and marked imports for the professional category. A complement, I tell you, unfairly, classist and unilaterally decided. There were other ways to do it. No one denies that the degree of responsibility in decision making is an important element, but if something has stood out from work during all this time, it has followed the degree of involvement of everyone, teamwork, solidarity and polyvalence. The extraordinary complement, which the only one that he does is to generate divisions, does not detract from this. No decision on these characteristics should ever have been taken on the sidelines of established negotiation and representation mechanisms; no decision to recognize and aggravate the huge pocket of these professionals should have been countered to the dignity of the professionals we applaud and thank. We are against this decree, but unlike you, we are respectful, responsible and respectful of who cares for us, and, in respect of them and them, we will abstain. Finally, I would like to thank the vice president who made it clear to us that they did pay for the month of August, because I swear to him that I do not know if there were any organizational questions about what we saw, but that the rumor that it was not paid for this month of August was fine. So, I think you've done well, today, as at least, since you couldn't regain the dignity of the professionals, to make it clear that, at least, you'll be paying this month of August. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.156.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.157.0	Good afternoon. I would like to allocate a few minutes of my intervention to read them parts of a letter from a TCAI, a nurse's assistant, from the Hospital de Tortosa, addressed to the Health Counselor and published at press. And he says, "First of all, I want to thank you and your government that you have taken into account that the health care workers deserve recognition for the job well done, but the way you did the dispensation seems unfair to me. If there is no clean equipment, there can be no high; if there is no caregiver, there can be no entrances to patients; if there is no maintenance equipment, the stamps do not work; if there is no cooking service, the patients do not eat; if there is no managed staff, the patient cannot get through the door; if there are no helpers, there is no hygiene to the patient, they cannot go to the washroom, they will not have the beds made; if there is no nurse, there would be no delivery of the medication, there would be no care for the patient; therefore, the meths could not work. They've been very intense these two months at the ICU without the certainty of whether we'd end up infected or not or infect them at home. This TCAI explains: "I have to leave my home, if I live with my father, from eighty-seven years old, in order to spread the infection. I felt accompanied by my team and felt that it was part of something more important: a team of companies and companies, doctors, nurses, janitors, clean, that we all went to one, patting the same discomfort and taking the same risk. Now you tell me that this is not so, that my effort is neither worth nor the half that the effort of the doctor, of nursing him, only for the title; that the techniques I have accomplished putting my salvation at risk are not worth as much as the risk my companies have taken with higher titles. We are not talking about responsibility; in this sense, it is clear that they and they have more responsibility than I do, which is why they charge a higher sum each month. If it's about rewarding an economic risk, that risk we've all had the same. I add, counsel, a risk and an effort. All the collectors, without exception, of the workers and workers of the services of the health centres, of the centers of cures, of the residences, of the house care, all, have completed, each with their assigned pocket, all, working in team, as said this TCAI, to safeguard the salvation of the people and why the health centers and the services of the estranges operating. Therefore, I do not understand this TCAI, I do not understand anyone in the system, we do not understand it, and we have told them since the first day, that it is gratifying, with a classist system that does not gratify the effort and the risk, that it is what would be to translate the applause into a gratification and a recognition, but that it is first the category of work, and it does that, for example – I had already commented on it in another session of this Ple –, a meth that has telematically paid attention during the health crisis is gratified with a thousand euros, and a TCAI, like this letter, a nurse, who has been at the first line of attention in an ICU, as was the case of this lady, with a hundred euros. He didn't feel it; it's not reward for risk or effort. Nor is it understood that there was no collection left, of all those quoting the same letter. You don't work if you don't clean it up. What if it's outsourced? It's the same, work the same. You don't work if you don't cook, do you? If there isn't... all the collections that work in these centers must be rewarded, as well as home care, as well as residential care, have the title that you have. Moreover, trade union organizations have complained, and rightly so, that the government has not negotiated with them and that this gratification has been made with assumptions that should have been used to reverse the details still in force in their working names and conditions. For all that, from our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Podemos, we have asked them to rethink it from a first moment: distribute the pay equally to all the staff, not different by categories, and evaluate whether it is possible to incorporate other basic staff who have left forgotten for the way. We even put it to the vote in a motion of ours at the July 9 plenary session. It was approved that it is valued inclusive, that it is worked to include in the gratification the collections that have not been closed and that a full route with calendar is developed to counter the retails still in force. But, obviously, today's decree that they take us to approval doesn't include anything else, and we don't have any guarantee that this will change. And, obviously, they have not changed anything, nor have they any intention of changing anything respect the main element that we give them, for which we are against what they impose on us in this decree, which is the classist division by categories. They haven't made any changes or seem to have any intention of doing it. It is not us who will prevent workers and workers from serving and living in health centres and facilities from covering this gratification, nor that they are not all, nor that they are not all the quantity that would be warm, nor that they are not with the fair distribution. You know, when you made this decree, that, even though the fessin with the agreement of the unions, that fessin with the agreement of the political formations represented in the Parliament of Catalonia, I wouldn't say no. But that's not the right woman to do it so badly. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of a system that has designed with oblivious class effects collections and with zero dialect with the main unions in the sector. But, obviously, neither can we vote against the fact that there can be a minimum gratification to these collections. Therefore, we shall abstain. But let's ask, and let's make it clear, that it is passed as it is to the law to try to resolve, or that it is afterward, all these mistakes that you have made knowingly, consciously. We've asked for rectification, and they haven't. Therefore, we have all the right, as parliamentary groups and as parliament, and all the obligation to try to rectify it later with a processing of the law of this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.159.0	Thank you. Vice President, when we went out to clap on the balconies, the Catalans and the Catalans did not give a small clap for the cleaners and a big clap for some health workers; we did the same. The conjunction of this people has not distinguished in its applause what you today are different from this decree. I'm saying because he made this comparison, and we want to make it exactly the same comparison. The applause of our people was not different; it was the same because everyone was sacrificing themselves. And, look, still much deeper, what does it mean, at the length of history, a state that is paternalistic and a state that is social or socially advanced? So, to a good extent, the look they can take on the salaries of workers and workers. A paternalistic state that has done so far in history is: "Now I give you a paycheck, for an extraordinary matter, is not consolidated, and I determine how and when. A social state, and socially advanced nations can also do so, which is to consolidate rights. And today, Vice President, we find that you, unfortunately, behave like the worst of paternalistic states, and it is not part of our history and our political tradition. The more days, and now it's a shared discussion with a bunch of parliamentary groups. Look, it's not for the past few days, on April 24, 2020, that in this House we wanted to consolidate rights or not consolidate rights. Let's see: it was 60 of the CUP, where we proposed, in that 60, that there might be a recovery of 5_per_cent of the salaries that some workers of the health system and of the socio-health system that is not one hundred_per_cent of the public had lost in Decree 3/2010. So the result was very clear: Together for Cat and the Republican Group against; Popular Party, abstention; Catalonia in Comú We can, abstention, and does not approve, and therefore is not consolidated rights. Even we advanced and made another proposal, which is that there was consolidation that all public servants, even though they were privately managed, could have guaranteed salaries, all workers, of 1.200 euros for fourteen payments. This is right consolidation. So, mirin, the only parliamentary group that voted in favour was the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, which was the proposer; of the rest, no one voted in favour; of the rest there was one abstention, and the rest, against. All this we want to incorporate into the discussion because what we're talking about is this: whether we're a paternalist or a socially advanced nation and want to be a state. And that's how he'll consolidate his way to the state. With respect to the three articles that today are presented to us in this Decree 24/2020. So, look, we, beyond being absolutely classy and paternalistic, will vote for it. That's right, we'll vote in favour of asking all the groups that can process like the law. For two motius. First, because it would even allow us, for the subject and object of the decree, that we could bring to regulatory discussion the recovery of 5_per_cent. I look at the object, I look at the subject of this decree, and it coincides with the possible recovery of 5_per_cent. And, for another band, because we want to change what is absolute classism, that to workers of net pay from 350 to 450_euros and to other workers of the health system pay 1,350_euros, for a linear pay, equal for all and for all. And why? For what you yourself say to the motivating statement: that you are retributing effort and sacrifice. Does anyone really think that the cleaners who were in the hospital were sacrificing less than the rest of the workers? For nothing. They've been playing life the same way. They're playing life. Then, if they want, they tell us demagogs, but the thing that's been going through these three_months is that the workers and the workers were playing their lives. And, therefore, we think it is essential that all groups can vote in favour of processing as you can, so that we can discuss, as at least, these two questions: that of recovering 5_per_cent, for one band, and, for another band, that of linear pay. And we want to make him, counselor, vice president, two questions. The first: additional arrangement first – and only, we would say. Can you tell us if this includes, for example, the workers and workers of the 061 Railway contract? Do you or don't you include them? Because for us they are also health care workers and workers, and it would seem that I do not include them, but we want to be able to clarify that. Either the built-in ones after, but before May 31st, the well-known Railroad contract of the track or I don't track. Do you or don't you include them? Because we're also health care workers and workers. And we end up with a foundational idea for the set of workers and workers of the public health system working on working. Beyond our vote, we want to denounce that this is a class proposal and we want above all to deal with it as it is because there is a linear pay and that it is the way to recover 5_per_cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. I now respond to Mrs Esperanza García, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.161.0	Okay. Good afternoon to all, deputies and deputies, councillors. We would not object, to this approval of the decree, basically for two questions. One is political coherence, we have practically done it with all the decrees with Covid origin, and the other, by political responsibility. But we are not convinced of the content of the decree, nor much less; among other things, for the same distribution of rewards or recognition according to categories. We do not understand why there are these differences between collectivities, it does not seem accurate to us and it does not seem to us equivalent to the recognition that all professionals who were in health centers and residential centers deserve to paint the most direct effects of the Covid. That said, we do not agree that in residential centres there is, let us say, a fixed amount of EUR nine hundred fixed for the different occupational categories on an equal basis. We read, from the same memo, it seems to me that it is from a writing from the General Directorate of Presumptives, that these productivity complements are financed, one, mediating the best of the exercises of 2019 and 2020, but also from the extraordinary foundations coming from the State in relation to the losses and failures generated by the Covid, this foundation from the State where you carry 15,5_million bill per loss of TV3 advertising in place of other social emergencies. Look, no, we've already said, we won't oppose it, because we think it's fair to make this recognition and, obviously, we're not against this going any further and this taste can get it. Now, the very memory of this decree says something very interesting, and it is: the reason for this complement is precisely that during this time the professionals have seen altered times, work turns, usual tasks, including the personal location of their service; this situation has been maintained continuously for more than two months, increasing the intensity and load of the work. Why did I read it? Don't you see that this is exactly what the movements, the bombers, the cleaners, the civil protection staff, the rural agents, the prison staff, the social educators of the children's centres have suffered? Do you not think that you have suffered exactly the same situation as you describe as the actual cause of the birth of this recognition of the production complement? Mirin, I will remind you of a phrase, which is not mine: "It would be incoherent if there were a group of workers who had worked actively in the fight against the Covid putting their health at risk and that the latter was gratified while others who had done the same job were not gratified in the same way. This was pronounced by Councillor Buch on May 5. You are blocking the session period with a decree that recognizes all health care staff and residential centers a recognizance with a complementary and, on the other hand, does not do so with the rest of the collections that have been in front of the health crisis. And what they're doing with this... and, counselor, I'm grabbing the word, and what you're doing with the applause on the balconies is turning them into the least of the slips, because these collections would also have to be able to collect a supplement to recognize their pocket in the month of August.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.162.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.163.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members, I think it is important that we start, with a decree like this, on the part of the consensus. It is true that all Members of Parliament agree that we need to recognize the great task that health personnel and all essential personnel did during the first peak of the pandemic, and I think that we have all made this manifest and it is important. Therefore, this first part of consent, of knowing..., we knew that we had a health care staff with a high knowledge, with a high ability, with a high excellence, but more than his ability now have shown us that they have also multiplied and given an answer, with a change of hours, with a change of duties, with a change of service, with a capacity to adapt, to fight from the first line of this virus. There's a second point where I think we also agree, that it's worth translating these applause into a recognition. And you can start arguing with what kind of recognizance. But in any case, this part of economic recognition, which does not compensate for all the effort there has been – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think it has become clear, and the vice president has explained it, that it rotates on two variables, The first, this percentage of face work; therefore, the exposition to which the healthcare staff has been seized during those months. But there is also a variable second, which is the responsibility. There was someone who wanted to hold it with some concrete synonyms, but in any case, a balance was sought between who was more exposed to the first line and who had to make decisions. So it wasn't just, of course, that I had the disinfection so I could do the intubation that I touched, but there's also a part of the data analysis, there's a part of the investigation, there's a part of the decision. It is not the same to apply a disinfection protocol that applies a protocol that you have to design new to decide whether or not the person intubates it, or whether or not the person intubates it, to decide whether or not at the end that person will survive it. Therefore, the balance between these two variables was also sought. I, moreover, take into account this staff who was downgraded to direct contact or to be a PCR. I think it's important, because we've focused a lot on medical and nursing staff and cleaners, or CAITs, but there are a lot of people who were involved in all of this. I remember the conversations with the col·legi de Fisiotherapia, for example, that it also talked about the importance of rehabilitation not only in patients who were hospitalized or undergoing rehabilitation, but also in the residents of the great people or the disability centers in order not to lose mobility. Or the medical transport technicians, who I think didn't get a good look at the decree and said they don't interfere, and they're recognizable to the decree. Or this share of residences and disabilities. And that more than just is the public system, the ICS, but it also recognizes the part of the Siscat, the concerted part, which also made a great ability to adapt to the system during those days. We are talking about an economic compensation that affects almost 130,000 professionals, and that, even so, we can finish discussing some of the dysfunctions that there are, but it is clear that we have, at least, two consensuses, that it was to be gratified, that we had to recognize the work done. And I think in this sense, given that not all groups seem to be at the same point, it's important to look at the international comparison as well. And when I do, I see that, for example, Belgium has only gratified medicines and pharmaceuticals; that France has applied a bonus only for the hundred largest centres of workers or hospitals and not for the rest of the territory, and that it has gratified extra hours; that Russia has been paid only a thousand euros to the doctors and 331 euros to the infirmaries, no more; or that Argentina has included all the staff, but only the health personnel, and that it has done so with an increase of one hundred and forty euros. So, obviously, this doesn't completely retreat all the countries, but I want to see four different models from other places where they haven't gone any further than here in Catalonia did, and where, more than that, because you must be... all the countries must be classy, neoliberal; all the rules of other countries, huh? They must be. So, when we look at the international comparison, we see that a bet has been made here to recognize responsibility and face-to-face. And someone said that this was to shut them up, and I think anyone who utters these words is very little familiar with the health system. If you think that for a nurse, for a doctor or for a person in the medical transport to charge three hundred, thousand, or to charge five thousand euros, this will cause him to go or not to go to a vacancy, it is that you do not understand either the system or the way of doing this government. The government makes a decision, that it is taking many governments at the level of Europe and at the level of the world, and it does so with one thing that we should be able to-to have consensus on, and discuss whether the amount should be this or be another, and the indicators of why one thing or another. But, in any case, to hear that the pay is to be done. That's not to shut anyone up, that's to make up for part of the effort that's been made. And then it's also a question if this had to be agreed. So there were people who didn't agree, and that's right, you haven't said a few, but there's also someone who agreed. And in this, of course, no one escapes from it since the councillor pronounces it for the first time until she approves is spoken to very many people, and, therefore, for the way there are also managers, there are also staff of the different areas that make their opinion come to light and that must be taken into account. And, besides, we've only stayed on the economic side, but I'd like you to make it clear that when it was announced it also talked about these 40_million euros for 21 and 40 euros for 22, to agree with the union organizations, to recover that activity that they haven't done with the Covid. I'm done, President, with a sentence. Beyond this compensation, what we need to be clear about is the part of the health infra-financing that there is and the alliance that Councilwoman Vergés asked for for for the health system to go to recover this under-financing, because that, whether it is useful or not, is certainly not the solution to the job insecurity that exists around health. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.164.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc Ten has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.165.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councillor, Members and Members, good evening, or good evening, because it seems to me that he's going through the night. For the approval of this Decree, Law 24/2020, extraordinary measures in the field of personnel, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, it seems to me that, with everything that has been said, practically very few things could be added. There is, however, a much simpler approach than it seems, and it is that I have no doubt that the members of this chamber want to live in a responsible, grateful, generous and supportive country, that I am able to recognize without problems what is said in the statement of reasons of the decree, and that it is certainly not all the effort, because we would still be unable to devote more resources to it. The same statement of motius says: "The extraordinary and exceptional character derives from a difficult unprecedented and complex health situation that requires urgent measures that recognize and compensate as much as possible the effort and dedication of the staff of the sector most involved in the fight against the pandemic. So this seems to us to be, and that is, the point of finding that I hope that all the groups in this room have minimal agreement. Because this decree is necessary, it is of justice, of social justice, it is of recognition, of gratitude with those who have saved our lives, with those who have accompanied until the end the lives that have not been able to save, with those who have played it, those who have given it all to avoid the collapsing of our hospitals, which are many, doctors, nurses and the rest of the staff, which is a wide list of professionals of many fields; of our hospitals, but also of our residences, which have sacrificed turns of work, timetables, their families, their social relations, their reading, and have done so by responsibility and professional ecstaticness. Therefore, it is a waste that we pay them back with money and not just with applause, as has been said and insisted upon, all this dedication. We need to be grateful and responsible. And the state would also have to be, you know, and it would have to complete its role in dealing with the pandemic. Also be aware that this addition of productivity is in a certain way an intention to repair inequalities, because many professionals of the residential and socio-sanitary health system, as nursing assistants, have very precarious contractual rules, and some may be the vulnerable collectivities, and any recognition in the form of retribution, I insist, is of social justice and reparation. We have to work, as Mar Rosàs said, vocal of Justicia and Pau, so that the gap between the ability we have to deal with the pandemic and what we should have is shorter. That's right. And we need to work because the system is much more robust and you don't need decrees. And if we agree with this decree, it seems to me that we also agree, because it is a directly proportional expansion, in the unit of all groups to demand that the Spanish government expand and distribute the state funds to Covid as Catalonia is deserved. President Torra said it himself in the last Ple, that we park the party, and he directed to those parties that they have, that you have, if I may, ministers at the execution of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. I repeat to them the words that the president himself said: "Do not fail the Catalans. Now we need them more than ever, because the pandemic has made it clear that the resources we have, that they are not the right ones, you know, are insufficient. As it could not be otherwise, it is an extended decree: to include the dates of March 1 to May 31, and to provide hospitals and social service centres for the residential character of the large people and of intellectual and physical disabilities, and to put it quickly, staff of the ICS and Generality Administration, such as the staff of the field of the Siscat and of all entities affiliated to the Català Health Service and of the entities, contractors and providers of health transport contracted for the Català Health Service or the SEM; a health universe, as it could not be in any other way, amplified. The decree regulates the temporality of the dedications, if any, the partial services and how the temporary casualties or incapacitities caused by the pandemic should be, and considers them effective service times to the effect of perceiving this extraordinarily productive complement. And that's why this government, with President Torra in front, and know him, seems like I wouldn't think of it any other way. Look, if it's that simple. It must therefore be stressed that it is a broad decree, which is estimated to affect approximately 122,000 people in the health sector and 44,000 staff from large and disabled residential centres, and that the impact of its overall cost is estimated to exceed 171 million euros; I repeat, 171 million euros which are to be advanced in pay adequacy, and which are not sufficient, but are 171 million euros to be advanced in this pay adequacy. MPs and MPs – there are still a few seconds left – diumenge to El Punt Avui published an editorial advance. I am not referring to the talks between President Puigdemont and President Pedro Sánchez, who especially recommend the Socialist MPs and that of the PSC, but I am referring to the advance of Column Editions of the book Essentials of journalist Benet Iñigo, which reflects statements and experiences of health professionals. I'll read them a paragraph where the journalist and Dr. Sibila, pneumoleg of the Clinic, speak. In this delicate situation of bursts, let's listen to these words, please. "The one we saw in the second fortnight of March 2020, we have not yet paid for it, we will never forget it. It was a few weeks of a tension, a speed and an intensity that surpassed us, above all humanly. It defines it as an emotional tsunami, full of dramas but also with many positive notes that allowed them to endure and look forward to the future with hope. But the most important part of this stage was that of the health care system itself. They're afraid to be the propers. Everyone knows about some bad company, some hard one, and that they could be passed on to them. Dr. Sibila says that this is because you never win it at all, that you only learn to live with it in time. Every time some company came out positive, it was once in a lifetime with the whole team. That's why the first highs were so emotional. The ICU of pneumology went from zero to sixty-six malalts with the Covid-19 on a few days, and more than half the critical period – I finish, president –; « the doctors doubled the guards at once. Tothom took a step forward, absolutely tothom; if not, it was unsustainable. Sibila is obsessed with underlining that the answer was plural; selfishness and battles were parked to develop joint protocols and add. So now it's up to us, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finished the debate, I guess this vote will also do when the meeting is over this late, like the rest. [[Decree-Law No 27/2020 of 13 July 2009 amending Law No 18/2009, amending Law No 22 of October 2009 on public health and adopting urgent measures to combat the risk of outbreaks of the Covid-19]] [[203-00052/12]] Let us now turn to the eighth point of the order of the day, which is the debate on the validation of the Decree Law 27/2020, of 13 July, amending the Law 18/2009, of 22 October, of public health, and of adopting urgent measures to deal with the outbreak of the Covid-19. To defend the promulgation of the decree, has the word, on behalf of the Government, the Councillor of Salut, the Lady Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.167.0	All right. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, as we know we have brought a law decree, the Decree Law 27/2020, the 13th of July, which amended Law 18/2009, of October 22, of public salvation, an important law for our country; a modification, with this decree law, an obligatory modification for extraordinary circumstances of pandemic; a global pandemic, a pandemic that now represents a threat to us and in which, obviously, we did not foresee specific regulatory action and laws that could be adapted to a pandemic of these characteristics. We need to be able to act decisively on the part of the public administrations, on the part of the Government of the Generality, on the part of those who have responsibilities for the salvation of the citizenry and who have the powers to do so. Who has the skills, obviously, we need tools to be able to develop them, to be able to exercise, therefore, this responsibility before the citizens, and, obviously, to guarantee to the maximum their protection, the protection of salvation, to protect this right as basic and important as it is the same right to life, to physical integrity and the right to the salvation of people. And, obviously, these tools also need to be able to have or be able to have the maximum legal certainty at the time of taking, therefore, these measures and having to govern in this situation. To put life, life and salvation at the centre; to defend the health system and its ability to give response in front of the coronavirus, because if we protect the system we also protect ourselves, and lime, also, have response capacity as society. The Law of Public Salvation precisely deals with this: it deals with how we protect salvation, how we prevent and how they promote salvation. It's a full law, it's a very complete law; it was an advanced law, but obviously, therefore, it didn't foresee a situation like the present. This forces us to perform hard. We must be able to avoid or minimize the risk to health that you see, therefore, given for this epidemic, with far more intensive prevention and control measures than we have ever had to serve in such circumstances. Therefore, there are no perfect solutions, that is obvious, there are no perfect solutions, nor are there any laws that can frame everything, but obviously, before a situation like we find ourselves, so let's carry this decree to the law, that change it, so that we can have..., following the maximum knowledge we have at every moment, analyzing the data on a permanent basis, take all the measures that we consider to be most appropriate. This is what we need to allow this decree to you, especially when the measures are what I said earlier, intensively, and for this reason your approval is so important. At the same time, while we are living with this pandemic for a long time, and therefore, we also need to think about this medium and long term, it is necessary to establish different and specific strategies for each epidemiological moment, for each situation. We must be able to take immediate intervention, intervention measures, if I may, more urgency, reacting before situations that can be produced, but above all we must also have tools to anticipate, so that we can eliminate..., or decrease, because eliminating is very difficult, but we must reduce the risks of the circulation of the virus by adopting the measures that have been better, and that is what we are doing, therefore, from the Government of the Generality, with this instrument, also, which we have, from the emergency range, through the Process. Certainly, health measures to prevent the spread of an epidemic such as this may have limitations on the exercise of certain rights, such as the same freedom of movement, gathering, right of work, and that's the extreme cases, that's where we have to work so we don't have to get there. Therefore, we must ensure that these exceptional limitations are always provided for the preservation of the health of the city's conjunction, circumscribed to certain sectors of activity, to limited geographical areas, to activities that create a special risk of contagion, and all this should be taken into account at the time of decision on the measures provided and that they do not vacate late. That's our goal. Therefore, we complement with the greatest possible urgency the current standard framework to ensure that the decisions that are adopted are clearly justified and articulate by means of a legally established procedure, amending Law 18/2009, the Law of Public Salvation of Catalonia, law that reverses all these actions to promote, prevent and take care of the vigilance of public salvation. With this change we expressly establish the measures that can be taken in pandemic situations, delimiting the procedure to be followed and the indicators that objectively justify the adoption of these measures with the provision of mandatory authorities. These are concrete changes that we can establish in this law decree, which we have also cited. It therefore adds that, in situations of pandemic or epidemic declared by the competent authorities, health authorities may adopt measures limiting the activity, the displacement of persons and the provision of services in certain territorial areas, as provided for in the annexes to the same decree, with the object, also, therefore, that the adoption of these measures..., therefore, is a incorporation of a new assumption, which is the clear object of this amendment of the law through this decree, that it is to ensure the control of contagion and to protect the health of persons by adhering to the principle of proportionality. I have said this many times: it is not about controlling society, but it is about controlling the epidemic. This is the balance that is complex: putting on a band that clear, clear priority, which is the right to salvation, and being able to preserve it, with all the balances, therefore, that intervene in our society when you have to take action. Therefore, we believe that we should equip ourselves with tools so that we can take action as quickly as possible to cut out transmission channels in our hands, so that we do not have to resort to these exceptionalities that pass the lives of people with much more intensity. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt measures of these characteristics, and this decree determines that it will require the issuing of a report issued for the direction of the Public Health Agency, in the care aspects on the part of, on the proposal of the Catalan Health Service and in the epidemiological aspects on the proposal of epidemiological vigilance, which always aims to establish the current situation at a certain time of the risk of contagion, the situation of control of the pandemic, the adequacy of the measures, and proposes measures to be taken. Reports shall always be adjusted to the parameters laid down by the same decree in its annexes, and, where possible, the resolutions drawn up on the basis of that decree shall take the form of recommendations to be followed in order to avoid risks of contagion. And that means a lot of work, too, to be able to explain to the citizenry. In the event, however, that mandatory character measures are to be established, it must be expressly warned of this obligation and, obviously, accompanied by the reports issued. We must also accompany... who are the essential servants who must always be preserved. And the resolutions must also specify an explicit duration, and that, when it is not explicit, this temporality in principle must be of these fifteen days extendable, if justified, always issuing periodic reports. You, MPs, MPs, members of the Health Commission also have a report every day issued by the Department of Health, through the Aquas, with different units that have provided us with these daily reports to follow the main indicators of the epidemic: the number of cases, the incidences of the last fourteen days, separated from one week to the other, to see the growth and trends; also the percentage of the positives respect the girl tests; also the hospitalization taxes, as they were donating, and even coming to build these risk diagrams, these risks of budding, and, therefore, to be able to know at every moment how we find ourselves in the pandemic at any place in our country. We need to get the least impact on people's rights. This must be the central focus of all the measures taken, and where possible, they can be adjusted territorially to the minimum necessary for their effectiveness; and, depending on the evolution of the indicators, mechanisms can be established to grade these measures, always waiting for the least intense ones to follow, but also for them to be in time and form the most appropriate ones. This government is now bringing fifteen decrees to the validation of this chamber which refer to the consequences of the Covid of all sectors. This is a situation never before seen in our country or in the other countries. Therefore, this government has taken action, has had to act, and is a supporter in all sectors and we also hope that in all society in general. It's important to fold it at a time like this. Catalonia's system of salvation and public services, which are the basic pillars of promoting equality, equity, social justice, are values without which democracy is degraded and with it our rights and freedoms. In times of crisis, these services are our protective mesh, the one that provides us with an indispensable cover to face the challenges and threats at the most adverse times. The scenario continues to be uncertain, yes, but we draw a clear full path to bear in mind what we will do to control this virus and to always look for this balance and proportionality in the measurements. He asks us, this stager, many questions, about which we have to build these answers in the proper months. We need collaboration and coordination to adapt to this new reality, which is highly conditioned by the evolution of this virus, but above all we need a lot of effort to prevent this from weakening the pillars of a welfare state that can only be protected if it is to be strengthened. We have to get out of this crisis so strong, so deep, from this pandemic... we have to get out with a much stronger welfare state. For these reasons, which I believe are very important in the current situation, we would ask that we validate this decree in the Chamber of the Parliament of Catalonia. It's a country response we have to donate. We need tools to manage this difficult situation, we need to work with all the administrations, we need to be able to dialogue directly with the citizenry, we need to explain to them clearly what is going on, the reality, the reason for the measures and that we will always work and leave it to ourselves because those measures we need to take, which we are sure – sure – that it is not pleasant to take, so they are taken with the maximum anticipation so that they can be the maximum of reductions and above all provided to the situation and always looking for balances, which are difficult in this society that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.168.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's the return, now, for parliamentary groups. And, in the first place, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Jorge Soler. I take this opportunity to inform you that after this point, we are already going to the polls, as long as the inquiry that was planned as the next point we will pass it tomorrow morning, at the time of the delay and the hours we carry. So, when you do, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.169.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members, Mr. Torra asked the other day "what is this? I said, to the gangs. So, look, Mr. Torra, this is a real shame. It's been a long time since we had an epidemic in Catalonia and it seems that there is nothing after practically anything. You, in your parliamentary office, guaranteed us the traceability, this term that is used to hear the follow-up..., the importance of the follow-up of the cases. From the escó we have told you on very many occasions that allocating 18_million euros to a private company of neteja was a mistake. And now, unfortunately, that recommendation we made to you from the Faristol was realized, it was real, it was a mistake. Today we know that you are still hiring students to do this follow-up, you will advise. After so many months he knew that this would come and he took you without hiring the staff enough to guarantee the follow-up of the cases. You, moreover, have joined us... – and I said it the other day also from the Faristol, from the Escou –, Counselor, you have quoted us from the Spokesman of Salvation, you have quoted us on various occasions, in the late days, in this Parliament, for the next day going and doing something quite different from what you have explained to the Spokesman. It's more like, you go after the Catalonian Television and you say you don't tell the people the whole truth, and while we see the citizens, by ignorance, for their bad information, they do things, they come out of the city and go to the people following the advice of their counselor. Where are the cases now, Counselor? We don't know that, and we don't know that because of his irresponsibility. We stretched out your hand. I personally did this every day of this pandemic with proposals, we called you, we asked you things. You've never had any interest. The last that we have asked you to achieve a great pact, a transversal pact to rebuild the health system, to make a specific, monographic ple in this Parliament. We would like to know whether this, too, will not even be read, as it has done with our proposals, to require them. Counselor, we are concerned about the situation, since the first day we have asked you for more tests and more tracers, and unfortunately we have not even had the tests that fit the population nor unfortunately you have dedicated to finding the tracers, and today you are still looking for students to do this job. Mr. Torra, who I'd like some time – already..., surely now that the legislature is finished, maybe I can't ask for it anymore – I'll be there when we talk about the health system. There's never been one in the whole legislature. That's right, what's he doing? Incoherent measures and abandon to fate the workers of the health system. I said it the other day and I come back to say today: so good one day you hang the phone at these conferences, that you have to be at home all day with Mr Puigdemont, with Waterloo, that you hang and come here a pen to listen to what the other groups of the health system say; that it is less concerned about day-to-day confrontation and that it is more dedicated to the coronavirus, because it is a coordinated action between the government, between you, between the opposition, and, obviously, between the central government. Because you have failed to comply with decrees that are wrongly laid down, because excuse me, Mr. Torra, where you are following the debate, to deprive the democratic state of the fundamental rights, as a judge, and a judge will not be an administrator of Mr. Torra who stands a secret every time that Mr. Torra has the illusion of validating or not a decree. That's what Mr. Puigdemont was doing with those night laws that they've done so badly, that they wanted to designate judgments that validate everything. So no, look, you didn't administer it to validate it there, and so you had to respect the separation of powers, and so they told you that you were missing in that first information decree, and that, besides, the measure was not proportional, and that, besides, you didn't have written, written and set a time limit, and that's why we dropped it. "What is this? Mr. Torra, so it's a democratic state. And now you're presenting here a new decree that, in fact, still lacks concreteness. Unfortunately it follows the legal instability and uncertainty with which you punish not only the citizen of Lleida, not only the citizen of Segria, but you are punishing all Catalonia. Because you have full responsibility and all health skills, and because you have not followed the follow-up of contacts, all of Catalonia, all of healthcare and all of economic activity will suffer. So don't be so proud, ask for help, because they'll have more hands than they have at least. In some proposal... – I don't say everyone anymore, I think you should read them all – in some proposal of which the opposition sends you, ask and accept all the help that comes also from Madrid, it is order, a little, at your home, that we only know more and more every day, and worry about the workers with facts. Your mismanagement will have a high price. I stop dealing with everyone, and especially from here to Mr. Torra, and I work with a sense of responsibility for the common good. And it is precisely for this sense of responsibility that, while you were in Madrid full of alarm voting not in the state of alarm, and we did, today, for this sense of responsibility, we are very, very, very, very much along any ideology that you can hold, for that sense of responsibility before the citizenry, we would vote yes to validate this decree. Because you live better against Madrid, always the other way around; because you have skills that you don't take advantage of; because people, and especially the workers of the health system, are very angry with their mismanagement, because they are exhausted and because they have reasons to be angry, because they lose control of the virus you have at risk to all Catalans. You've been warned by everyone, the press, the mayors, the workers, you've done it wrong. You still had the joy of, in the middle of the pandemic, affirming that you alone have ruled it all the better. So today we see it hasn't been like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.170.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forward has the word the deputy Assumpta Escarp. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.171.0	President... On July 12, Lleida's instruction judge did not ratify the government's resolution with the measures of containment and containment of the epidemic outbreak in Lleida and seven municipalities more than in Segria. The Government's resolution does not complement the minimums of legal and epidemiological justification, but it has put into evidence that it is an instrument that allows urgent action to be taken. In fact, it was not understood why in the case of Segria they did not use the Law of Public Salvation and the Law of Catalan Protection, as they did with the perimeter lock of the Conca d'Odena, which, as some lawyers have expressed, were sufficient laws, understand that the measure of confinement is not a restriction on the right of mobility. Anyway, if we look back, things that have been done to the region of Segrià are understood: it takes fifteen days to respect the border area of the Aragó, they did not send-trackers, they did not inform the mayors. And we would say that the Segria has been the beginning of the dam disaster, which makes us today on the condition that we are, with a high reproduction rate, and we continue to find no contact with infected people. In Catalonia, let's say it with all the letters, for every infected person there is only a location between head and two contacts. I think this given is pretty clear from his lack of prediction. He gave Councilman Buch that we need legal instruments, that we don't have them. They also needed the State and that's why they set up the state of alarm, which Councilman Buch's group never voted for, with a few interventions that we'll have to remember all the time. That is, when you have to make your decree and amend the Law of Public Health to take measures to limit activity, the displacement of persons or the provision of services in certain territories, you pass as if nothing else from the denial to pose by writing – and you say the statement of motive –: "There is no doubt that before the character more general or more intense of the incidence of an epidemic situation you can come to declare the state of alarm. I can imagine Councilman Buch signing this. Instrument that used the State to cope with the first episode of the epidemic, understood as a restriction provided for the preservation of the salvation of the city council. His government has passed from March 14 to Madrid, to other institutions or directly to the citizenry. They said they didn't have skills, they didn't have instruments. "Later and later," said President Torra every Saturday, "when the government of Catalonia has been since June 20th. I will say with the words of Dr. Benito Admiral: "three or four weeks of own management and we are worse than the rest of Spain. You haven't prepared the dam phase. They were in a hurry to show that there was no longer an alarm, and they moved us to stage three of the de-escalation, instead of fifteen days, in fifteen hours. The rapidity with which the restrictions were lifted has contributed to the excess of confidence. They did not prepare the surveillance mechanisms, test and follow up on possible outbreaks that may occur after the confinement has been lifted; they do not have the technical tool for tracking studies; there is still the announcement for the demand for managed personnel, of these five hundred people who have been asked; the network of epidemiological services has not been strengthened; the primary one is still small, and we have gone from active outbreaks, but controlled, according to the council, to community transmission to Lleida, to Segria, to Barcelona city, the Hospital and thirteen municipalities of the metropolitan area – controlled without tracers–; they have not appointed public health secretaries until they have been sent, after the crisis, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public. And I still don't know how he fits in with Dr. Jacobo Mendioroz's appointment; somehow, some day they'll have to explain this organization chart to us. Again, late and barely. Their response was late, when they were only able to do the containment and restriction measures, with which this entails health, social and economic consequences. We spent our time watching a press wheel of three advisors and counselors from this government – a press wheel that would be better to forget – that generated confusion, mistrust and indignation. He's only read us the newspapers for the whole week, listen to TVs and radios, even all the public, and listen to people's reactions. Because in their attempt to communicate to dissuade they achieved the opposite effect – we remember, if not, the images of the tails to the exit highways of the metropolitan area. They told us to confin ourselves and at the same time we knew that the tracking was activated three weeks late after the first outbreak in Lleida. We felt it phrases, from the mouth of a counselor, like: "It is a habit to create anguish. They tried again to pass their responsibility to the citizen, citizens who have been scrupulous and responsible for months and who have lost confidence in their government, and that is very difficult. It is hard to express the indignation expressed by mayors and mayors at the lack of information and, above all, the lack of acceptance of the help they offer, and the obvious lack of coordination in the actions that can be carried out from the municipalities. Validate this decree – and I'm telling you that we will vote – will give us a tool, a legal tool, a tool that will help us modify the Law of Public Greeting. But in order to fix the gap and not go any further, they will have to lead, take responsibility, listen, coordinate, collaborate, listen to the professionals of Public Health and other health areas, to put measures and resources to them. And it'll be very self-critical. I myself asked the Vergés Councilwoman at the far Ple if she thought she was the most idony person to lead the Saluting Councillor. Perhaps today we should add, or we should have added already at that time, if a government that is exhausted, divided and weak is what can lead us in a management like the Covid-19 and the outcome of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.173.0	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to all of you. The debate before us today is a decree with special measures to deal with the risk of Covid's rebounds. And the first thing I want to say is that we will vote for it. And we will vote in favour because, unlike you, Mr. and Mr. Juntes for Catalonia and Mr. Esquerra Republicana, unlike what you have been doing to the Congress of Deputies in the successive votes of the decree of the state of alarm, we consider that there are questions that are unnegotiable, and this is one of them. We are talking about measures that are aimed at containing the virus, at protecting salvation, and, therefore, at saving the lives of Catalans and Catalans. So, as I say, for us there are questions that are unnegotiable, this is one of them, and that is why I have already said in advance that they will hold our vote. I also want to say that it was good that this decree was from the beginning. And he explains to me: to be able to restrict the freedoms of the citizenry, because that is why this decree was issued, to limit the rights and freedoms of the citizenry in order to protect a better good such as that of public salvation and that of life, as a sufficiently argued legal parachute and, obviously, limited in time. So if they had done it right from the beginning, the citizenry had been relieved of a few hours of anxiety, uncertainty and disorientation. And the third one that I want to say, too, about this decree, and not just the decree, but the measures that have been derived from it, is that it was done without counting on the municipal world and co-government has been non-existent, and we see that all that you were demanaging at the time or it was not so important or it was already forgotten. And from then on, I would really like to focus on the motion or the motions that led us to be debating this decree right now, the causes of the situation in which we find ourselves. Now it's about a month ago, I would say that one month and a half, that managed it from the pandemic, managed it from the health crisis, is of exclusive competence of the Government of the Generality. And this month, we've become the territory of the state that has more cases of Covid. And the question I think is necessary and relevant: what happened to get to this situation? So I am convinced that there are multiple causes, but that there is one that is based on, there is one response that is common to all that can be derived, and it is that the Government has confided, has not worked the measures to anticipate the possible rebounds. And, therefore, I demand them, first of all, sincerity, and that I admit that no work has been done and that no forecasts have been made. Because, moreover, the government was in a hurry to return to the new normality; I want to remember that some territories like Lleida or Barcelona were in phase 2 and, in only twenty-four hours, went to the new normality. On June 8th we entered phase 2 and 18th we were already in the new normality. And I think that in order to take action of this fall, then, things have to be very well thought out, very hard work and, above all, very measured consequences to have all the necessary tools in order to react quickly. And clearly, you didn't. I think you thought the buds would come late. I believe that this film has been put up and now we know..., and now we have the virus lying here, I now give you the news that they can no longer pass on the responsibilities to the central government because their skills are theirs; nor can they pass on the responsibility to the citizenry, because I think that too often they let us know that it is there that we are telling ourselves because we are carrying ourselves badly, and I regret to say that we cannot pass on the responsibility to the municipal world, because the mayors and the mayors – and, moreover, that I also want to point out – of all political color, they have shown an absolute leiiness of the zero minute, and, obviously, what they have come to demand is clarity and consistency in their instruction. And, in a way, the Jordi Basté said the other day also to a column of La Vanguardia: "You are not, among comets, ventilated with a bunch of massive recommendations often contradictory and came to say, in a way" there you, when in reality what you should be doing is moving serene, giving clear instructions and, obviously and above all, having muscled a network of vigilance to be prepared to anticipate the bursts that we knew would come. Look, I think the first time the virus appears is normal, and it's still understandable that it's unwisely catching governments. Not just this, but all the governments of the world. We didn't know what we were dealing with. But five months later I wouldn't be doing the work of anticipation and foresight I would say that it's almost fearsome, because, further, we were already seeing as in some countries that were drifting ahead of us, as for example Xina..., we were already seeing that they had sprouts. So, honestly, we don't understand what the Government of the Generality has been doing. And I just agreed that you're not counting the time, President. [[Pause.]] Yeah? I don't see it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.174.0	His screen won't come out. I don't know what happened, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.175.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.176.0	Li's got two minutes left, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.177.0	Wow, okay. So we don't know what the government of the generality has been doing. What we do know, because the more you have had to admit it yourself, is that you came late to the resurgence of the Segria. The second is that they are giving a feeling of overflowing, but now they are not accepting the help that is being offered from various institutions. We've had two months without a secretary of public health, who is the main authority in infectious outbreaks and epidemics. Now, fortunately, they've already named Mr. Argimon. And, incidentally, fortunately, I also want to say that today we have heard him say that they want to do it, that they want to extend the PCR tests to contacts that are more appropriate to all those people they give positive. Still out! It's just that you're glowing. So, I can't understand how on July 21st we're still aware of the fact that from then on, PCR tests will be carried out on people who are better off than all those who have given positive. If I'm not... of course, how are we not supposed to be in the situation we're in? On the other hand, we have less trackers than Mallorca, we have seven times less trackers than the Valencian country, and we've still listened to you say they don't get any hotter. It's true that today we've known that we'll have five hundred. It's true, too, that the hospital officials, the epidemiology experts, say two thousand. Well, let's make a pass, but there's still a few left. And even municipalities like Aitona and Alcarras have pulled for the right and have decided to hire their own trackers, a job that should be done by you. And I could continue with this list, but I prefer to close it with a topic that is also particularly worrying to us, as it is that we still have four hundred consultants and CAPs in Catalonia locked up from before the pandemic? When we know that one of the first things we need to do is to strengthen primary care, not just for infectious outbreaks, but also for the rest of health care. I'm done. I end up with a prec, I end up with a demand: I ask you to admit that you are overwhelmed, that you accept help, that you work the CAPs, that you strengthen the primary, that you do more testing and more tracing, that you accept the help that you are giving yourself all the time and that among all of us you have to work from cooperation, from humility, to get out of this... because clearly the situation is not good. We're not doing well, and so we need each other. And I simply end by reiterating what we have been saying for weeks now: here we are and we want to work together, we want to add and we want to help. Therefore, they do not refuse help and admit that they are overflowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Pause.]] It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.179.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... which we would like to convey is that if we voted on the motius statement, we would vote against it, but we voted on the agreements. And let's explain why. Mirin, at the motius talk, there's an interview, 40/2020... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, I'd need... excuse me, huh? It's just that I have a lot of sound. Thank you. On April 30, 2020, 40/2020, of the Constitutional Court, that exactly what it does is leave three fundamental rights without effect, and we explain it, because it is contrary to what this decree regulates. Mirin, there is a supposition in which the Unitary Central of Workers and Workers, the CUT, of Galicia, called for the 1st of May a march with vehicles, with only one person to each vehicle, for the centre of Vigo to, obviously, remember..., claim the First of Maig, the day of the workers and the workers. And the Constitutional Court does not accept the appeal before the court of an administrative dispute, that what it meant was that there could be no departure there, neither with vehicles, nor with a person per vehicle, nor even taking security measures. And so, all of a sudden, because what the decree says is one thing and what you incorporate into the motivating statement is exactly the opposite, which is to leave without any right-wing effects. In this case, right of assembly, right of demonstration and we dared to say also another right of speech about what we sometimes forget, right of freedom of association; it was that which contained the three subjects. On the express content, look, what we could call the k factor, the incorporation of the k paragraph into the Salvation Law, we agree. We agree that activities may be limited before a pandemic for the authorities of salvation. And we agree, above all, with the way in which it is expressed, that it is not the limitation of a fundamental right, but certain rights – so it is – that it can be more graduated in terms of limitation, that it can be more concrete in the territorial sphere, and that it can also, at the very least, affect itself in the way that less can act in accordance with the right of persons. It is how it is expressed and, therefore, we, in this, agree, because it is an act that is not presented as the limitation of phonental rights, but as the act on the rights. That said, we want to share a reflection with the pool of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. If we continue to debate how we end up with the effects of the pandemic with regard to closure, yes, no, confined, no, we are deceiving ourselves. Of course there must be some confinements there, of course there may be some closures, but the discussion doesn't go this way; the discussion doesn't have to be whether we limit the rights or not, the discussion has to be how we guarantee the rights. The way to end the effects of the pandemic is to guarantee rights. And to guarantee rights goes through: reinforcement of the primary – councillor, we go all the way through the legislature and insistently with the approval of assumptions of the last months –, and this does not mean a contract with Ferrovial, it means primary, which is a very different thing. It also means that we have the guarantee that PCRs are made in twenty-four hours and that you contact fem in twenty-four hours next and not what we are living today. This is right recognition, this is right assurance. But we also give him other areas that are not his competence – we're already advancing him – look, it can't be that there are work centers where everyone knows that safety and hygiene conditions are not fulfilled and that there is no mass action. There is now a coordinated action and even more is allowed to sanction on health issues for the Labour Inspectorate. But we have to have this now. It cannot be that we will be Members and Members every morning we have the guarantee of the temperature and that we do not have it for the rest of the work centers. In the rest of the work centers, control at the beginning and control at the end of the temperature. And it can't be that if there's any area where we've detected that there's been an increase in positives, we don't make massive texts. There you would have to deploy all the performance of the department, all the performance of the government and that the conjunction of the population in these areas obtained massive texts. And one more thing that matters so much or more: we need planning. Planning............................................................................................................................... It can't be that we have improvisation and bad speeches. Miri, counselor, I'm telling you with all due respect. As a result, we in our parliamentary group feel very much about each other, and I explain why, because otherwise, they would not believe what I would explain to them when I leave the meetings with the department and what happens twenty-four hours later. We estimate ourselves very much and, therefore, there is no problem. But you would think that my intellectual faculties are very limited and that I don't understand anything when I go to meetings. And I moved him with all kinds of respect. And second, we must avoid contradictory speeches at the joint venture of our society. We say to them, for a band: "You must stay home, but the tourists who pass by. We also say to them: "Look, the cinemas and the closed theaters, but you went to work with a reality that is the rubber meter to gom or the train where there are no distances. Contradictory speeches. We say to them: "Look, don't get out of the city and the effect that we achieve is exactly the opposite. Therefore, we allow ourselves as a minimum to advise you, counsel, that there are these two elements, that of planning versus improvisation and, for another band, a response that does not generate conflicting visions between the Catalans and Catalans. With this we will advance on the path to give response to the health effects, and even dare say economics, of the Covid-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.181.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, although it seems incredible, have repeated the same mistakes in the management of the Covid-19, lack of foresight, important doses of irresponsibility and frivolity that have generated alarm and concern among the population, and now, moreover, have also caused enormous legal uncertainty. Once again, counselor, the virus has caught them thinking again about their things, believing that the health situation was controlled and, instead of preparing us for these possible rebounds, you returned to your priorities, to your dialogue table and monologues, to your third degrees, to your Waterloo, to your faults to Spain, an endless of irresponsibility, counselor, who have brought us here. A good example of this has been the last few weeks, when you spend Thursdays or Fridays of the « tot controlat to confine the next day. The most important example was Friday, the 10th, where it went from saying that in the Segrià it would not be necessary to confine at home, causing many citizens to march weekend to announce, less than twenty-four hours later, a house confinement that forced those who marched to return urgently. You intend to reassure with your words, but in reality it only generates alarm and disconcertingness. You also announced on Saturday, the 11th, measures of house confinement and restrictions in Segria, which were initially rejected by the judge on duty, not having such measures fit in the legal order nor being justified. Improvisation again. And what about the government's lack of foresight with the timers in the Segrià, another sign of its incompetence, as this situation is repeated year after year. Why did they not give the voice of alarm at the unchecked arrival of these temporalists? Why did they not take steps to prevent them from living and living in situations where social distance and masks were not respected? A disaster that only you could avoid; guilt neither the temporaries nor the farmer have it, you have it because it was your responsibility and was your lack of foresight the cause of the massive rebound in the Segrià. At this point we wonder, why do they want all the powers of a state without even knowing how to exercise what they have now? And there were no more competition excuses. They had them, but they failed again because they didn't do their homework. They have been unable to equip themselves with an early detection and tracking system to isolate positive cases, to quarantine suspected cases and to cut off the chains of contagion. You haven't done any of this. It's normal that everything will fail later. Consellera, this whole cluster of incompetence and misconceptions explains the mass contagion first in the Segrià, then in Hospitalet, Barcelona and its metropolitan area, and now also in Figueres and Vilafant. And this lack of control over the virus has forced them to recommend house confinement, first with communiqués and orders, and then with this decree they intend to validate. A decree that is a source of legal uncertainty, because in reality it is nothing more than a list of simple recommendations with very few obligations, some of which, moreover, are of dubious statutory and constitutional legality, and at this point no one knows what can or cannot be done. Good proof of this is that when they have had to apply the Community-transmission containment measures to Barcelona and its metropolitan area, almost no one has paid attention to them, people have moved or left massively to the second residences; because the truth is that: beyond limiting schedules or the opening of commercial activities, there is no legal obligation. In fact, they already know the opinion of the metropolitan mayors first hand, they have defined their performance and described their decree as « erratic management, full of inconsistencies, battery of recommendations or prohibitions inapplicable, come on, a disaster that should have caused already, Mrs Vergés, that you were not sitting there as a councillor. We have already told you in the last control session and these last fifteen days have given us reason again. I will tell you with all due respect, but with all clarity: you as Health Adviser are a danger to the public health of Catalans. Now resign from your job so that another person takes over health management right now and so the Catalans can have a chance to avoid falling into a second state of alarm, another real confinement and a new shutdown of the economy, which would be lethal. You are left with pride and lack humility. Therefore, ask the Spanish Government for help if it is necessary to correct this management disaster, because this is not a problem of competence but of incompetence: its own. Seeing how it works, Mrs Vergés, if independence is this, I'm afraid not a few Catalan independenceists are going to get rid of your political project. Your management gives me the impression that among yours it produces more shame than admiration, and it is normal, because they too suffer your incompetence, although surprisingly the fault is never yours. First they blamed the Spanish Government and now they want to hold the citizens accountable. See to believe, counselor. You bring this decree here with the intention of being validated, but unfortunately the only clear thing we get out of here today is your incompetence and your irresponsibility, and there is no decree that can cover it. Mrs Vergés, I finish and I say this to you sincerely: I hope that these serious bursts that spread across Catalonia will be controlled and will not lead to the second feared wave of Covid-19, but with the same sincerity I say to you that if in a few months this second wave unfortunately ends up arriving, it will do so without you in the Government because frankly, worse they have not been able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the name now of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.183.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. I think my analysis would probably be a little different, but mostly with focus. I think we find ourselves in a situation that we sometimes forget, we analyze as if everything that's happened to Catalonia only happens. We all understand that this is an extraordinary situation that we have to face with the resources that it has done in an extra-fast way and so, here and there is even more of the speed with which many times we have faced very complicated situations. I would define it as learning to live or live with a virus, with a new reality. I think that sometimes we may be wrong when what we expect is to move from that where we were to a situation of confinement and go back to just where we were. This reality will not be these own months, this very year, or say the specialists, until the vaccine arrives. It will force us to live in a different way, different because it will be new, because it will force us to adapt to a way of functioning, socially, economically, healthily much different from what we were used to. A liquid way that makes us reinvent ourselves could be to say that every week, with what all this supposes for an institution and for a health system that has done many wonderful times to be able to give response in time and form to what we have found ourselves to. And learning to live in a raven, because actually this virus won't come from as much expression as we saw at an end; no, we're probably going to have rebounds, as the specialists have also told us, little ravens to which we will have to put the measures so that they decrease, try to keep these every time to the minimum. But this is the reality that we have to face, because the government will apply a measure that will make the Covid disappear from here in its country, which seems to be what we ask many times. And how can we do all this? We've heard many times during these interventions the fact of moving, here everybody moving. There were groups who told us: "No, it is now that we are moving it to society. Ah, it's that before we transferred it to the government. I think from the Government of the Generality, Republican Left, what until this moment was meant to be a paradigm shift in this sense. Responsibility is not transferred, responsibility is shared. And at this point solidarity is collective, we all have somewhere to play. And how's he doing? With prevention, with pedagogy, explaining a lot, a lot and a lot, and they understand that among everyone and everyone is how we fight this virus and this pandemic, with a collective mentality where everyone understands that their grin is important because everything works, and they don't come out here carrying all the responsibility to each other. We ask and demand that other responsibility, we offer it as well as parliamentary groups. The other day I felt a definition that said: « I wear the mask to protect you. And I understand you're wearing it to protect me. And I think that's the real secret of being able to deal with the utmost seriousness and rigour like this pandemic society. Teixir complicit, and so much. Totes. Together, with society, with social workers, with parliamentary groups. Weaving, weaving, weaving and summating. Because it's the way we can get more out there. And these accomplices mean to add to everything that the Mayor of Barcelona can add. Add to everything Girona's mayor can add. Add to everything that the mayors of Tarragona and Lleida can add. Because what is done is to listen, it is to listen very much, and it is to adapt – as has also been seen in the confinement – to adapt to those in need, analyzing those people who probably have no case and can make some measure more flexible. And all this is listening and with proximity policies. And sit down. And I feel brave. Why am I calling you so brave? Because, probably, transparency sometimes... [[Pause.]] Just a moment, huh? Please, I don't see the time either, if I can go when I'm two or so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, thank you. Therefore, this transparency sometimes is to be brave. If there's anything up to this point, it's that the generality with the open data has shown it all. And I'd like to ask, how many communities do we know about the names of residences? Actually, the state government, of which what today in this faristol is more strict... and which then we would also ask ourselves, when the competitions have followed from the state government, why have some groups in this faristol come out to complain with their mouths very, very, very small, and today they have remained the most belligerent? How many data do you know about the Spanish state's residences, the autonomy? How many data do we have to go back to those deaths that have happened in hospitals, in residences, that the tanators have also gone back that way. Transparency, transparency and transparency. Then we can compare what is the community that has the most cases of Covid in its territory. Why do we have more cases of Covid or are we more transparent with the information? When they say: "Demanin helps, they are open to everything that can come to us. And so, because this government is ultimately supportive and works one department with the other. We've explained it many times. One of the first measures of the Department of Foreign Affairs to all delegations in the foreign language was to collect all the information from those models that apply all over the world. Why? To compare, to have information, to have statistical data, to collect information from specialists, technicians, whose model has been implemented in each country, which have worked. Weighing, comparing and being able to export all that knowledge that has worked to other places and that we know we can deploy to our territories. So much so, yes. Because that's to be strict, it's to look for and find that balance. Because this government doesn't do things alone, this government goes along. Accompanied by teams of technicians, experts in the fields and weights. Put, as they say, in this decree, those measures that make this society possible at the same time..., and finding balance in this life is sometimes the most complicated. Pondera, try to find that... we know that we can't live in a bottle locked at home and permanently confined, that would probably be the solution because there are fewer transmissions. But we know that the company needs a gear that's mogi, that we need to get all this to be as safe as possible. It probably won't be as we knew it six months ago, but we have always developed any resources that made us superior before any problem. So let's work. Work this line. But we don't really go out here just to move the foot from one place to the other. We come out here to weave these accomplices and find us. Someone called: "I, the truth, is that if every time this pandemic needs some resolution, it has to be a single judgment that dictates it, we may also have a problem. Probably the judge will defend us if there's any violation of rights...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.184.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.185.0	Yeah, I'm done, President. But what we need is rigor, analysis, technicians and specialists, and not a judgment that will probably be formed in many subjects, but I don't know if in such a global environment it's the only vision we'll have to listen to. Therefore, let us all be in a position to rule on different scales and with close proximity to different realities. And we're still able to help each other make this possible, because it's not political, but it's about the life and coexistence of our friends, family and fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.186.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.187.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I begin by expressing my solidarity with all the people who have suffered the Covid's hardships and who continue to paint them. Today, more than ever, we have to be responsible for the management that the government and the means that this Parliament must set aside for it. That's the fourth decree I've had since the pandemic started. I, this time, is about the validation of the Decree Law 27/2020, of July 13, amending the Law 18/2009, of October 22, public greeting and the adoption of urgent measures to deal with the risk of Covid outbreaks. As Mrs Vergés said, in view of the urgent need that has generated, which is generating the difficult situation of the pandemic, which requires decisive action and, in particular, respond to the uncertainties generated by the lack of knowledge of basic aspects of the disease and its transmission channels, the Government has to put an end to the effects of avoiding or minimizing a risk to health, which makes it necessary to suspend alternatives taking into account risk assessment and other relevant factors. And, if necessary, the application of the most appropriate prevention and control measures, to more than the regulations. It is necessary to complete the current standard framework with the utmost urgency to ensure that the decisions that are adopted are clearly justified and articulate by means of the legally established procedure. And the two amended points of this decree, in a summary way, are the following: Article 55 is added to the letter with the following content: "In a situation of pandemic or epidemic declared by the competent authorities, the competent health authorities may adopt measures limiting the activity, the displacement of persons and the provision of services in certain territorial areas, in accordance with Article 55a. And there is also the second point, which says that it responds to the procedure for the adoption of measures in declared pandemic situations, and adds an article 55a, with five points. And at the level of the annexes 1, 2, 3 of the royal decree, it is envisaged, first of all..., in annex 1 are established the indicators to be included in the referenced internal reports; secondly, in annex 2 are established the services that can be essential, and lastly, in annex 3 are established the measures adopted in the mark of Covid-19. That said, the social and health emergencies that the country suffers require a practical territorial response in order to eliminate the impact on people's lives, and, as President Torra said, this is about saving lives and the future. And no one should lose sight that this crisis has destroyed empty, many places of work, illusions. And now it also begins to destroy coexistence and tolerance, especially when we begin to identify as demons and guilty working people in a situation of vulnerability and in conditions of subhuman life, as is the case with timers; and also when some demagogs want to use them to criticize the government, at a time when they know perfectly well that the problem sees them, it sees the foreign law and everything that we shed on the problems of many years ago. What is happening to many territories of Catalonia because of this Covid-19 is difficult, it is a disgrace with a capital. This is why we are ahead of the fact that we must satisfy a need of first order with celerity. These needs cannot be dealt with by ordinary legislative procedure. The Government of Catalonia must strengthen instruments and take the necessary measures, and mobilize resources as ever. That is why, from Junts for Catalonia, we insist that the Government is at the side of people from any country's rightful people in this battle against the epidemic, and also, sometimes, against the Government of the State to defend the interests of Catalonia's citizens. And all the decisions they make are aimed at protecting the people's salvation, and above all the government better with the added skills. President Tora is struggling to safeguard the life and salvation of the citizenry, despite the critical rebuds, the difficulties that accompany the exceptional situation we live in and the lack of empathy of the Government of the State. We know that we are ahead of a health, economic, social, political and international crisis, and we are facing an era of transformations at all levels, we are facing a new model of large-scale functioning, and we lack tools and resources. And, as President Torra said on more than one occasion, this crisis must be carried out by the administrations and institutions, but by the institutions acting from the common sense, and not by those who are more concerned about the interests of the State and less about the salvation and life of people. For all this, we will vote for it from Juntes per Catalunya, to validate the amendment of this decree which you have as your basic objective to be able to exercise better epidemiological control of the pandemic, a problem that affects us all, and it can only be solved from the common sense and from the seny. And finally, and lastly – I cannot finish my intervention without..., as it is a special day too – I express my solidarity with our company, which is not today among us, which is Lluís Guinó, and with Lluís Corominas, with Anna Simó, Mireia Boya and Ramona Barrufet. And I say to them, "We are with you at your side and against injustice." Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-21-5801.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] All right, let's go to the polls. Before we begin voting on the adventurous faig that today 88 Members have delegated their vote, 24 have joined the telematic vote and 22 will vote in person. [[Report and conclusions of the Autonomous Work Study Commission (continuation)]] [[260-00001/12]] We vote, first of all, on the report and conclusions of the Autonomous Work Study Commission. Let us begin the vote on this report and the conclusions. And, in the first place, we do, respond to the separate voting petitions, at point 1, which correspond to the basics of the autonomous worker. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, point 2, which corresponds to the basics of the self-employed worker. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, but they have the guide: "1. Three basics of the autonomous worker, which is the title. I, then, guess it's 1.2, say so. But it's the only vote on this title. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, let's vote it again. The vote begins. This point was approved by 80 votes to 4, with 49 abstentions. Let's now vote on the rest of the conclusion of number 1, including the introduction, huh? The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting 2.1 now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting point 2.2 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes in favour, against and 39 abstentions. And we're voting now conclusion number three. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We are now voting for the conclusion of 4.5. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 12, with 53 abstentions. We're voting now at 4.6. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 12, with 53 abstentions. We're voting 4.7 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 100 votes to 12, with 21 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of conclusion number 4, including the introduction. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting for the conclusion of number 5. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now conclusion number 6. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on conclusion 8.1.3. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We now vote on 8.1. The vote begins. It was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We now vote on 8.2.1. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with no abstentions. We now vote on 8.2.2. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. And now we vote on 8.2, including the introduction. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We now vote on 8.3. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on 11.1 and 11.2. The vote begins. It has been approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. We're voting 11.3. The vote begins. It was adopted by 117 votes to 12, with 4 abstentions. And we now vote on the conclusion of paragraph 12.3. The vote begins. It was adopted by 104 votes to 25, with 25 abstentions. We now vote on number 12. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. It has been approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions, for unanimity. And we vote on number 14. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. Let's vote number 15. The vote begins. Also approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we finally vote on number 16. The vote begins. This conclusion was adopted unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. [[Opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the Application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia (continuation)]] [[261-00003/12]] We now vote on the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry into the Application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia. First, we vote on conclusions 2.5, 6, 8, 20, 25.6, 29, 30, 31.4, 38 and 39. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes in favour, 56 against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on numbers 3.3, 3.9.e, 4, 18, 19, 21, 24.7, 45, 46 and 47. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We now vote on numbers 33.5, 33.9, 34.9, 34.13, 35.10 and 37.3. The vote begins. They were rejected by 8 votes in favour, 56 against, 69 abstentions. We now vote on 33.1, 33.2, 35.8 and 35.9. The vote begins. They were rejected by 17 votes in favour, 56 against and 60 abstentions. We now vote on conclusions number..., ranging from 32 to 37– from 32 to 37. The vote begins. They were approved by 76 votes in favour, 56 against, no abstentions and 1 Member present who did not vote. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the conclusions. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. [[Draft law amending the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the obligation of the previous session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and amending Law 15/2009 of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law (continuation)]] [[200-00013/12]] We now vote on point 5, which corresponds to the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary of the Law on the modification of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the obligation of the previous session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and to the amendment of Law 15/2009 of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law. The vote begins... They know that the votes in favour are in favour of the... ( Pause. Seeds of fons. ) On one reading, excuse me. Exactly. And the votes against are unfavorable at this one reading. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And, given the result, therefore, of this vote and in accordance with Rule 138.1 of the Rules, this proposal for law will be dealt with in a single reading before the plenary. The reminder that the deadline for submitting the papers to the totality and the papers to the articulation will end at a time when the late meeting is over. Once the deadline for the presentation of these items has been completed, the discussion of the items to the totality and to the joint, which will be made available in the morning, will take place. [[Proposed law on the exemption of co-payment to minor orphans under guardianship for the administration and amendment of Law 14/2010, on the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence (continuation)]] [[202-00070/12]] We now proceed to vote on the sixth point, which corresponds to the proposal for processing directly and in single reading before the Ple of the Law Proposal from the exemption of co-payment to the minor guardians for the Administration and the amendment of the Law 14/2010, from the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. The vote begins. This single reading was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. With the result of the vote, therefore, there is a time limit for submitting papers to the totality and papers to the joint, which also ends at a time when the late meeting ends. At the same time, once the deadline for the presentation of papers has passed, the debate will have to be made, which will also make you sell in the morning. [[Proposition of the law of urgent measures in the matter of yield containment in housing leases (continuation)]] [[202-00080/12]] We shall now proceed to vote on the new item on the agenda, which corresponds to the proposal for direct and read-only processing before the plethora of the bill of urgent measures in the matter of yield content in the rental contracts of the housing. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. Similarly, like the previous ones, the notification that the period for submitting papers ends later in the late part of the session and that, likewise, the debate following these papers to the totality or to the joint that has been presented eventually will make divestitures in the morning. [[Decree-Law 24/2020 of 16 June on extraordinary measures in the field of personnel (continuation)]] [[203-00049/12]] We are now voting on the agenda item, which is the validation of Decree No. 24/2020 of 16 June of extraordinary measures in personnel matters. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 64 abstentions. Therefore, the decree has been validated. I understand that this means they want it to be a vote if it's dealt with as a bill of law. [[Pause.]] So let's get to the vote. The vote begins. It has been approved by 68 votes in favour, 65 against and, therefore, this decree will be dealt with as draft law. [[Decree-Law No 27/2020 of 13 July 2009 amending Law No 18/2009, amending Law No 22 of October 2009 on public health and adopting urgent measures to address the risk of outbreaks of the Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[203-00052/12]] And let's now vote on the eighth point, which is Decree No. 27/2020 of 13 July 2009 amending Law No. 18/2009, of 22 October 2009, of public health, and of adopting urgent measures to address the risk of outbreaks of Covid-19. The vote begins. This decree has been ratified by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. I now reply to the Chamber asking whether any parliamentary group wants to be dealt with as the draft law. [[Pause.]] Don't you? So there are no more points to vote. We suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
