ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.1.0	Bon dia deputats, deputades. Please, vagina occupying their respective escons. Let's start the session. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be replaced this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I would also like to inform you that, as a compliment to the motion 111/XII of the Catalonian Parliament, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies for the collection of migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, since the beginning of the year 2020, there have been 193 deaths and disappearances in the Mediterranean. We must always remember this, but especially this week, in which we are witnesses of the barbarity that should be unacceptable for Europe. [[Ask the Government about negotiating a democratic exit to the political and amnesty conflict]] [[310-00311/12]] Let's keep the order of the day, and the first point is the questions to the government. He asks the first question, on the negotiation of a democratic exit to the political conflict and amnesty..., formulated for the Parliamentary Group Republicà, to expose it has the word of Mr Bernat Solé. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.2.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Vice-President Aragonès, this past said, the Government of the Spanish State and the Government of the Generality are for the first time in a single table to talk, to dialogue and to negotiate, on equal terms, the conflict between Catalonia and the State. A conflict that, for many days, has been in the judicial sphere, more than in the political sphere and should never have come out. At the same time, we also see how, day after day, mobilization continues as present as always: in the street, in places and wherever, to denounce this state of continuous repression that we are under. And that's exactly what it is, negotiation and mobilization. Negotiation for sister, talk and wake up, but also mobilization. Mobilization to claim and demand rights and freedoms. Because, since the Parliamentary Group I represent, we do not understand one thing without the other. And we don't understand one thing without the other because the combination of the two of us will lead to the political victory for which we all work; each from its space and from its political model, but all with the same strategic unit. For this reason – and we'll say it today as many times as we can – we won't raise any space for dialogue and negotiation, nor will we give up mobilization on the street; never, because we have to be, at all times and at all. Ara, I always do. And that no one is wrong, we are not going to negotiate, we are not going to negotiate, we are going to give an answer to this more than 80 percent of the country that wants a self-determination referendum, and we are also going to force an amnesty in this long-lasting cause. And I take advantage of it to ask for a little silence. Despite all this, we are aware of the difficulties and that is why we are as skeptical as anyone before a PSOE who has shown us his darker face for quite a while. Because we have memory and we know who we have on the other side of the table. Before this scener, where the Government of the State, assured of you, from government to government, has already recognized the existence of a political conflict and where now has the opportunity to offer agreements or to fail again in this will of dialogue, as you, Vice President, value yourself, which has been set in motion...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.3.0	Congressman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.4.0	...this trading table?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.5.0	Thank you. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.6.0	Thank you very much, President. In the first place, I add to the words of the President of Parliament, dismayed at the images we have seen between the border – at sea – between Greece and Turkey. They are images that you should not see 'if you should stop treating human people like merchandise in a geopolitical battle. Congressman Solé, the past ten years, 26 of February, the one that was produced was an important event. An event that can qualify as historic. For the first time, delegations appointed for the governments of Catalonia and Spain sit in a table, formally, institutionally, to address the questions of foundations that concern this country, about its sovereignty. We went there, the Government of Catalonia, accompanying the President of the Generality, with two clear ideas: self-determination and amnesty for political prisoners and exiles. This is what we believe is widely shared in Catalan society, as the political solution before a political conflict. A political conflict that has been transferred to the courts and that is the best way not to resolve it. We were going to start this path to solve it in a civilized way, in a dialogue. From the scepticism that the experience of the past few years and that must be very present to us, we must have confidence in our strength, and the strength that we can put there are the great consensus of the country, which are repeatedly expressed, also in this Parliament, that go far beyond what we represent the independent Members. Secondly, the strength of votes and ballot boxes. If this table was assembled last week it was thanks to the strength of the votes, expressed in the elections on November 10, and mobilization. Political participation, filled with streets and squares, to defend precisely this solution for our country, which must go through self-determination and amnesty. Therefore, mobilization and negotiation must go hand in hand to open this path to bring the solution of this political conflict to resolve it as the United Kingdom with Scotland, as Canada respects Quebec, and not as Spain has done with Catalonia, in the later years. Because that's why we have to remember one thing: all this is done to hold the toolbox, to hold the instruments, to hold the resources, to improve the day to day of the people. Because the justice and fission of inequalities can be fought extraordinarily better with a Catalan republic for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.7.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the perspective of gender and good practices in the Department of Interior]] [[310-00312/12]] The next question is about the gender perspective and the good practices in the Interior Department. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz, when she wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.8.0	Thank you, President; good morning to everyone. Counselor, the strength of the feminist movement has two cares: for a band, the witnesses. Using all the altars in our abst to claim that what seemed individual is not at all, but that there is a patriarchal system that shows us that inequality and discrimination we have to fight them as a whole, because it is a collective struggle. In this sense, we validate the premise of feminisms that preceded us and that they say that everything that is personal is also political. Another of the weapons that the feminist movement has to combat masculinism and negationism, so close to authoritarian states and the extreme right, are the data. We need the data, because without them we've been trying a long time to tell that we're not historical, we're not bogus, we're not exaggerated. That's why we value positively that the department promotes these sexual rapes, to hold in our power the ciphers. We need the information to be able to make detection and prevention, a lot of pedagogy and, finally, end up wiping them out. But the questions, because they are useful and practical, must have a gender perspective, and this means that if the questioner does not adapt to the victims, it must be reformulated, and if he is patiently generating all two bands of the phone, too. This is what happened with the investigation of sexual rapes in the department and in the middle of it, because it calls for revictimization, and we also have to fight it. We would like to know, Counselor, who are the measures that will be needed to repair our victims and if there is any other formula that fits better the complexities of sexual rapes in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the word "adviser d'Interior", Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.10.0	Thank you, President; good morning, Members, Members. Congresswoman, thank you for the question. There's one thing, that's that the year 2019_has had the highest data of the last five years in the matter of sexual abuse and assault. If we were talking about victims, about women attending in the camp of male violence, in the realm of the pair, we would be in a xifra of 13,069 women. And if we're talking about victims of male violence in the family, we'd be talking about 3,412 women. Therefore, there are data that should be of concern to us, and I believe that it is not just the Department of Interior, but the whole government, including all the deputies and deputies, such as representatives of the Catalan society and public servants. We have to compromise and conjure ourselves to reduce it to the maximum or to reduce it to zero. The goal is this, that of the department, to minimize these data and this women's patience, right? And with the conviction to get rid of it all at once. But, as I say, it must also be done from a transversal job and, therefore, from the optics of the Interior Department, I will still give him three examples of what we are doing, right? But it is true that we have an objective, which is that it is still denouncing. We want it to be denounced, we want the women who suffer aggression, we want the women who suffer abuse, we want the women who suffer male violence to denounce it, because these data also serve us to investigate and prosecute the perpetrators or delinquents who think or believe they have all the right to be over a woman. And this country will never be free while we don't feel all free. And in this case, women don't feel free because of this masculinity that we suffer in our society. For what he does to the Department of the Interior, we have a protocol, as you know, that we pushed forward just to the principle of the legislature, which has had a very good attached one. It's a protocol against sexual rape around the ocean. She's been co-hosted at the meetings, at the concerts, at private companies. It is a protocol that is a pioneer in the Spanish State and in which, therefore, it will be possible to sanction with two thousand euros any type of sexual assault that exists in the middle of the night. The question that you mentioned will have the results between the second and third quarters of this year 2020 and tomorrow, precisely, in a day of crimes against sexual freedom, the Squadron Mosses will present a specific unit for fighting, for attention, for the follow-up of victims for sexual assaults. Therefore, the compromise is firm, there is, but the objective is to eradicate absolutely this chakra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.12.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we still think the question needs to be reworded, so we're being told by the investigators and the inquiries. And I'd like to take advantage of the fact that we have a few seconds left, and taking advantage of the fact that it's March 8th week and that we're talking about this week more than the rest of the year, of the women's rights, to make the reminder that there are women in this country who can't vote for the Foreign Law and that means that the State considers there are women second. And that feminism, if it's not anti-racism, is not feminism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Ask the Government about the deficit targets]] [[310-00304/12]] The next question is about the new objectives of deficit, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, Mr David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.14.0	Good morning, Vice President. He knows that these weeks we are in full debate of assumptions, the result of our agreement for a fair taxation and fifty-eight measures to shield public servants and to end the lost decade of retail of Mas and Rajoy. At the same time, last week, the Congress approved the expenditure relief and the new deficit targets, in our view, with the surrealist voting against its governing partners, Junts per Catalunya, voting against the arrival of more resources for Catalans and Catalans. The new deficit target amounts to €72 million more for the assumptions of the Generality of the year 2020. Millions who, in our view, are destined to fight inequality, reduce housing emergence, address the climate crisis and the economic transition and promote and protect our industrial sector. These have been our conditions for concluding a new agreement. And these are the goals that have allowed us to reach a new pact. A new pact that will amount to 26_million euros more for housing policies and logging aid; 20_million euros more for dependency and childhood; 13_million euros more for the National Industry Pact. And, as you announced yesterday, 13 million more, for culture, that allow you to reach 300 million euros. Counsellor, how do you appreciate this new agreement that we have achieved to improve the assumptions of the Generality of the year 2020?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.16.0	Many thanks, Congressman; very good morning. Last week, with the vote of the Congress, which this week will end by validating in the Senate, there were these two tenths more deficits, of which, in application of the rule of expenditure, we can use 72 resources for the assumption. The presupposition of 2020, which is being processed in this chamber, is a presupposition that, under the current conditions, is the best possible, but it is not the presupposition that surely, if we had all the tools, we would do. That's why we have to take advantage of any opportunity. And the opportunity that gives us this new margin of deficit, with these 72_million euros, which, as you said, we would focus on priorities that provide a sufficiently cross-cutting environment for the government. In the first place, housing policies. We see – and it's news every week – how the denunciations are on the order of the day: 26_million euros because, from the Department of Territories and Sustainability, they are applying, precisely, to housing policies. The need to update the social services of the country, in the area of childhood, in the area of tariffs, too. Therefore, 20_million euros that we can allocate to the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families in this area; absolutely necessary, however, despite everything, still insufficient. And then there's a lot of funamental issues. In the field of industry and economic promotion, EUR 13_million, which must be used by us for the National Pact for Industry, also to be able to hold economic promotion policies in a context in which there are many global uncertainties, and therefore all of them are absolutely necessary. The 13_million for culture, to complete this tipping point, this trend change, this paradigm change that we started with the presentation of the assumptions for 2020. Therefore, a_second agreement that completes a very good agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.17.0	Thank you, Vice President. To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.18.0	Well, I think it's also important to explain and emphasize that in this case, this new deficit goal will also reduce the expense displaced to the Health Department, which I think is also an important goal that we have and share together with you. I also want to end with a reflection and a lawsuit. At these times, as you said, it is important to take advantage of every opportunity to get the most resources for Catalonia and Catalans. Let's start, too, now the debate of general assumptions of the State, which perfectly know that they would be more resourceful, in this case, for infrastructure, public transport, dependence and housing. And it's not, in this case, just a vacuum lawsuit, but, besides, you know, because it was in the assumptions of the year 2019 that you fell. I want to make a very concrete demand, together, in this case, to Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia: to leave the political battle and the electoral competition to the margin of the debate of general assumptions of the State. And that if, in any case, it is not able to do it together for Catalonia, that it does it Republican Left, that it is independent of Puigdemont and that it allows, in this case, to process the general assumptions of the State. [[Widow's remorse.]] I think it's the moment of our presuppositions of Catalonia, but also of some general presuppositions of the State. Catalans and Catalans need it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.20.0	Well, honourable Member, I think there are questions that will have the opportunity to discuss them at the Congress of Deputies. But there are some fundamental aspects. Regardless of the support that may or may not have the general premise of the State, the 443_million euros of VAT that correspond to us in 2017, that there has not been a solution, there has to be a solution and they have to arrive, because 443_millions are much more than 72, and we can do many actions that we cannot do. Compromised investments must come. The joint committee's agreements with the third additional arrangement and with the financing of Mossos must come to fruition. Regardless of the government there is in the State and of the budget project, Catalonia can never, ever, ever renounce these resources that are its own. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.21.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about help to the loguer]] [[310-00309/12]] The next question is about the help to the loguer, and the formula on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group to advance Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.22.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, why has his department changed the criteria for the award of subsidies for the payment of the loguer from which the Ministry of Development was previously, the names « Mifo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.23.0	To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.24.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs. MP, you know, housing issues, we've discussed many occasions. I'm surprised at your question. The truth is, he hasn't changed any criteria, no one. Helping the logger doesn't come from all the sources of the ministry, in fact, the ministry only sets a_third. Two thirds put them under proper assumptions. And here there is a first demand, that the ministry increase the parties destined to inhabit the autonomous communities. There's a first demand that you can help us with. And it's the same Housing Plan that marks some of the parameters that have prevented this year 2019, which we just passed, so let's get some of the subsidies that we've been holding up on other occasions. Among other things, there is an article in the Royal Decree of the Ministry of Development that prevents us from giving grants to people who believe in minimum tickets with which to call responsible declarations. This is now being avoided, and this has been done by the Ministry of Development. However, we will reverse this, and we will reverse it on the basis of more presuppositional endowment for housing policies and also with specific calls for people older than sixty-five years. But above all, what you have to do is help us to have more resources from the state government to the autonomous communities. We're only close to 50 and we'd have to have a lot more. Help us with this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.25.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.26.0	Counselor, we already know that you are experts in blaming others, especially the Government of Spain, but it is false, counsel, that the change in criteria that has occurred is because from the ministry..., or that the royal decree establishes this change of criteria. I recommend that I review the Royal Decree governing the State Housing Plan, on which these subsidies are based; and especially Article 12 makes it clear that the communities can establish the criteria to govern these subsidies. The only person responsible for managing these grants is you and your department, and your decisions have left almost twenty thousand people helpless. And that's for different factors. The first is because they have lowered, they have reduced the economic contribution by 20_million euros, dedicated to these aids. The second is because they have changed the criteria to the regulatory bases of the grant, they have changed the criteria that affect the calculation of the applicants' entries. They do not admit the gross entries or the declaration responsible for obtaining them, as had been the case for other years, and at the same time they have increased the maximum number of entries of the beneficiaries. As they are subsidies that go for competition, there was a section of the population that other years had rejected these subsidies that have now been refused. The criteria for the maximum price of loguer likely to be able to help have also changed, increasing it. All this has meant that the most vulnerable people, those who have fewer tickets, those who are bigger, because they have contracts with lower yields, have been left behind in the pursuit of these aids. And now what, counselor? What will these twenty-thousand people do, these twenty-thousand Catalans and Catalans? How will you pay for the logger? Will the government make an extraordinary summons where they can gather? Counselor, the situation of families facing Catalonia is desperate in many cases, and you are not on the rise. The management that this government has made of these aids to the loguer is not a clear example. But unfortunately, it's not an example. This is part of a weak action in the habitation area, too. Don't apologize, don't blame others for what you are responsible for and govern for what is really essential for Catalans and Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word to the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.28.0	I am still surprised by their interpretation of a royal decree which clearly states that the declaration responsible in the award of grants is not admitted. Says the royal decree of the state, it's not our criteria. And help them to pay for the logger they need that they can also have entrances, in this case minimum entrances, to access it. This is not just said by the Government of Catalonia, it is said by all and every government of the autonomous communities that these helpers of the ministry receive. Therefore, it is not our invention. How are we gonna deal with this? We will deal with these extraordinary 26_million euros that we will devote to housing policies, 26_million euros that come from this flexibility of the ground of deficiency, which is insufficient, because VAT is missing, because the additional third provision is missing and because there are so many other things, among others, that there is more endowment to the housing plan itself. We only have 50, when in other years we had up to 100_million euros. They help to increase the provisions of the Housing Plan and we can complement, from the Housing Plan, with the appropriate tickets, with what we have from the Government of the Generality, a quantity sufficient to be able to deal with these aids that have favored more than 50,000 family units in the year 2019, which...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.29.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the health situation]] [[310-00306/12]] The next question is about the health situation, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.30.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Well, from Ciutadans today, counselor, we want to show our solidarity with the concern that the citizens of Catalonia respect the coronavirus. As you know, it's been a week since the first case here in Catalonia. We followed your press wheel yesterday informing you that you had it remarkably well controlled. Counselor, we also want to say, or comment, that we are very happy to have seen it at the Interterritorial Council representing all Catalans, without leaving, this time, the empty fall of all. It's about time. We are pleased that you have accepted that you should be well coordinated. Citizenship, in this sense, needs to be well informed without being alarmed and to respond to concern with responsibility. Also, from Ciutadans, we would like to congratulate the great task being done by the technicians, we were very pleased with the campaign of the Canal Salut, but it has not yet reached all the residences nor all the colleges or all the schools Bressol. Such informational campaigns may come with understandable advice, especially to the most risky collection: the great people, fragile patients or chronic patients. Try to make sure that they are repellent quickly, clearly and effectively. What will he do, then, why will he come, counsel, to these congregations? Because it is essential that you get to everything and that you have very simple, basic protocols, with clear advice: from the rent of hands, the measures you have to do when coughing, stay home when there are symptoms or explain who is the exact phone where you should call the citizens or not go to the hospital when there are no symptoms of gravity. What will you do with this coordinated response when it is appropriate to respond and recommend teletreball, and even to unload the bureaucracy to the healthcare system when there are patients who are recommended to stay at home. Consellera, effective coordination must reach the entire territory of Catalonia. Therefore, do not lower the guard in any case. Finally, especially we want to transmit, from Ciutadans, a message of confidence in the health system and gratitude to the magnificient professionals of salvation who are working on the team. That everyone follows with respect and diligence his indications. From Ciutadans, they have all our trust. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.32.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, members of the Government. In the first place, of course, I attach myself to the message of trust in our system of salvation in Catalonia; in, of course, our professionals who are giving everything, because, more than that job they have always had, of that concern they have always had for our lives and our lives, for citizenship, for those who are patients and those who are not, more than others, are striving to make all the necessary reinforcements. We are also involved in health policy, with all these contacts in which you were demanding that we strive. So yes, we try to intensify all the information that citizens have in general; that they have, obviously, all sectors; all sectors of our society and, especially, those that care for the most vulnerable people. That's what we're doing. For this very reason we gathered for the strategy before the follow-up of this emergence. We met with the entire Government of the Generality because every person of this Government, who deals with an indispensable sector of our society, can keep all the information, can be transmitted with this information. And we're resolving all these doubts and all these concerns. Obviously there is a very special aspect, we want, above all, to protect those people who have to take care of us. Therefore, we have a special cure with which it is the health professionals, with specific measures for them, because they are obviously growing activations. We have 625 activations from the coronavirus bug, with confirmed positives and communications, that will obviously update this media if there are new data. And there are more than 410 contacts we have identified, winged and followed. I think that's very important. Because it is so important – as you said – to give clear messages, which are, more simply, that they are the rent of hands, hygiene; that they are preventive measures at the time of coughing, at the time of sneezing... I also have to tell people to follow these wingings, that they are recommended despite the fact that they find it good. Because we're very lucky, these divided people we have and their contacts are read or... obviously, they don't have any symptoms and, therefore, they're healthy people. Therefore, we continue to recommend that the information be followed, that advice and recommendations be followed. And we'll get it to all sectors of our society. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the orphanage in the framework of social services]] [[310-00307/12]] The next question is about the orphanage in the framework of the social services, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Naomi of the Street. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.34.0	Counselor, in this legislature Citizens has introduced seven laws that somehow affect their council. One of them to prevent the Generalitat from remaining with orphan pensions for orphaned children under its guardianship and which, unlike other autonomous communities, is not returned when they reach the age of eighteen. We are talking about minors who have suffered the misfortune of losing their parents, who have no family that can welcome them and who have the misfortune of having fallen under the guardianship of a child protection system that is not working properly in Catalonia. To top it off, the orphan's pensions that these minors receive are being left with you in terms of service expenses. In other words, they make orphans pay for the stay and maintenance they receive in the care centres, unlike other foster children, who do not have to pay anything. From Citizens, we have put forward a single reading bill to speed up the solution to this misconception, not only so that they stop taking orphan's pensions, but also to return the legitimate owners of those pensions to the last euro that has been stolen from them. But before this bill comes full, from Citizens we have put on the table another option so that you can remedy this barbarity, and I announce that you will be able to remedy the one before our law enters full. How? For by voting in favour of the amendment that we have tabled to their budgets so that there is sufficient provision in them for the Generalitat to return to the orphans the millions of euros that have remained over all these years. Are you going to accept this amendment so that we have to save ourselves the shame of dealing with this law urgently? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.35.0	To answer the word, the advisor, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.36.0	Thank you, President. Before we begin, the vice president has made, in his answer, reference to what we have experienced in Europe, in Greece, around the violation of human rights. I add to this reflection and add another. Two weeks ago, there was a storm in Germany, and the victims didn't take it into account. We make this self-criticism all of us. There can be no first and second victims. And I did want to say it and I wanted to say it here in the House. [[Greetings.]] Regarding your question, I explained to you a little while ago that in government sessions we were working respectfully on how to deal with this, which is based on an interpretation that is made of the LDOIA. We need to be able to modify it, we're working on the decree. This affects about two hundred and thirty infants of a protection system that protects more than two thousand infants, and we will continue to work on this line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. Counselor, you said it: the problem is that you make a misinterpretation of the childhood law. And, look, as the main opposition party, we offer you an option. If you want to solve it immediately, you can accept our amendment. Are you going to do it? Because, look, yes, a month ago I asked him about the same thing and he answered us that they were going to solve it by decree. But it's just that a month later we're still waiting for you to introduce him. Meanwhile, citizens have been given time to present two possible solutions, through a single reading law that is already presented, and through an amendment to their budgets, which is also presented. So the solution is you have it on the table, because it's no longer just about getting them to stop staying with the pensions. In Citizens, what we want is for the Generalitat to return money that should never have stayed. Stop making excuses and return the pensions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.39.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To answer the word again the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.40.0	Thank you, President. Mirin, there will be various opportunities. We always work in different lives, and if you have a little time you will be aware that what we have to do is change the LDOIA, and basically change what is the seven additional arrangement. And you'll have an opportunity, which I don't think you've considered yet. If you look at the statements to the Bill of Measures, which is the one that needs to be modified in order to modify the LDOIA, you will find that there has been the statement presented. And I am sure that, after what you have said, you will vote in favour of the message presented for the Republican Group and for the Junta Group for Catalonia, I am not sure. And this will allow us to modify a law that needs to be amended in order to cope with this reality. I am sure that in Parliament's plenary we will find your vote in favour because it could not be in any other way. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the use of public space]] [[310-00308/12]] The next question is about the use of public space, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, until the next time they allow, day by day also, a group of people tall to the capvespre the advent of Meridiana? How many days has it been cut? One hundred and forty-two?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.43.0	To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.44.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Member, like it or not like it, does not allow concentration or manifestation as a function of ideology. This country is protected by the right to protest, including the Spanish State is enshrined in the Constitution that you have publicly defended here, wrongly and rightly. Therefore, this very Constitution that you defend is what protects people from manifesting, because it is an inalienable right and a fundamental right of citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.45.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.46.0	Yes, counselor. You and the Interior Department of the Generality are working with organized groups protesting against the validity of the social and democratic state of law. Organized groups, set up for the administration of the Generality, and more concretely for its department, are hard attenuating against the fundamental rights of thousands and thousands of Catalans. Counselor, how is it that you have not prevented these days, that the first weeks – let me remind you – nor have you just communicated? Separatism has white paper on its department? Is the Department of Interior at the service of the autonomous Catalan National Assembly? Is it Mr. Cruanyes who decides the size of the diaries, it seems, on behalf of the ANC? Now it seems that the drivers and users of the Having Meridian and the residents and small entrepreneurs of the area depend on the sectarian will of a separatist entity that does what you want to get from Catalonia, with the knowledge and collaboration of the government to which you belong. It's been a long time since we've had any pre-eminent rights. The right to protest and protest is not for the right to work and move without freedom. You discriminate against the majority of the citizens of Catalonia and, in the case in which you deal with them, in a special way, the veins and users of the Meridiana, who are holders of rights as sacred, defendable and enforceable as those of the group organized for the ANC that cuts it violently, if ladder, as has been seen repeatedly. Listen, counselor, if the free exercise of the rights goes beyond – that sometimes it's what it looks like – there are a lot more thousands of drivers and hundreds of users of the transport lines affected by the sizes of the Meridian than the designs of evaporators that cut it every day. It is the same as I can tell you in the case of the sizes of the said Rome, Tarragona, and Ricardo Vinyes square, Lleida, or the diari size of the Barcelona street, Girona, and other avenues of Catalonia. When will the connivance of the Interior end with those who violate the freedom of the citizens of Catalonia? I've said it more than once: there's enough, counselor, there's enough! [[Greetings.]] To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.47.0	Thank you, President. It seems that for you, for the explanation you have made, the minorities could not manifest, because it would affect..., this minority, if it does a demonstration, would affect the majority and, therefore, a minority could not manifest. And that means that you have a mind, you have a logic: a state, a country that would not be democratic; you can only manifest a few, not all. Look, while you're questioning the right to manifestation, we're protecting it. While you question the Spanish Constitution, we adapt to this law. While you question a law of concentration and manifestation that regulates the right to manifest and concentrate, we guarantee it to all. Therefore, this idea that they are trying to convey to us permanently that these parliamentary groups, these representatives of a society that thinks and believes and that defends democracy in being able to vote for us anti-democratic, you, with this photograph that you have just taken, are proving to me that those who are anti-democratic are you. And today we'll have plenty of time to talk about the right and I'll be very quiet at the time to explain it to you and show you that it's not illegal here, but it's protecting a good deal as it is to manifest and concentrate, regardless of ideology. Because you normally, when manifestation or concentration is an ideology they don't like, you chase it. We guarantee them all. Why? Because we're democrats. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.48.0	The next question is about the expectations generated for the Generality's Budget Project for 2020 in terms of education. [[Asks the Government about the expectations generated by the Generality's Budget Project for 2020 in the field of education]] [[310-00305/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.49.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning. Counselor, the propaganda of your government and of the commons has generated expectations about the Budget Project for 2020 that in absolute terms correspond to reality. If it is legitimate to compare – as you do and will do – your proposal with that of the last premise approved for this Parliament in 2017, it is also appropriate to compare it with the presumption actually executed in 2019, which will not deny me that it is the comparison that really affects citizens and public services in the present. And here's where his propaganda is turned into a deception and – I must say – into a fraud. The increase in education expenditure forecast for 2020, compared to 19, is 236_million euros, a 4.9_per_cent, almost the same annual increase that occurred in the years of budgetary extension, including the 155th period. Because you, counselor, do nothing but adjust the assumption to tendential expenses, without making any progress in terms of quality or quantity so as to advance into inclusive school and fight against school segregation. Counselor, you, with the support of the commons, have rejected all requests and proposals from the trade unions for minimums and, on the 30th day of generation, you, the Government, have risen from the negotiating table. And neither have they listened to the main demands of the educational community. Counselor, until they think they're still deceiving the city?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.50.0	To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.51.0	Thank you, President. You know perfectly well that these assumptions revert to detail; you know perfectly well that these assumptions have some of the demands of the educational community, and you know perfectly well that the state of public education, after the details, cannot revert with only a few assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.52.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.53.0	I see, Counselor, that you continue to cling to propaganda. Look, you don't invest in education where our country needs 2.5 of GDP today, when the undisputed target for no one is 6_per_cent. Miri, between 2010 and 2019, the government's spending per pupil– per pupil– of the public school has dropped by 22_per_cent and, in change, the increase that you propose overall for the education system, between 20 and 19– I have already said it– not above or at 5_per_cent. From these 236_millions that you propose to increase to the 20, re; 70 go to the schools bressol by judicial order, would only lack; 45, to the school concerted, that has fallen in students, in change the public school does not cease to grow in student. I, on the other hand, offer us 261,200 more to divide them between two thousand school centres. You'll tell me, what an impact it has on the reality of inclusive school. The rest of it, you help out in burrows, you have to recognize that they do have an increase in leuger. Counselor, no significant improvement on the education system. They have occasion to correct this action by approving the ideas that we will propose, that they will reflect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.54.0	Congressman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.55.0	...that the education community and the unions... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.56.0	Thank you. To answer again, the counselor has the word. The Education Advisor Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, the government's return to the generality in the participation of the financing of public children's homes is the most important retail reversal that has been done and could be done. You know perfectly well that putting the generality's reversal at zero in public children's homes does not only incomplete the LEC, but that it was a retaliation that went beyond the presuppositional effects, abandoned the joints in co-responsibility and, more importantly, it also had to see the families at a cost. And it's not just that – you've also told us – you've called us, you've called us into a very difficult debt to solve. A debt, for example, with the Barcelona Assembly, of 51_million euros. These assumptions begin to assume co-responsibility, which is very important. But, in addition to – and you have also forgotten – these assumptions for the first time – for the first time – complement the memory of the inclusive school decree and therefore place more than four hundred professionals in inclusive school and almost 40 million additional euros also in other inclusive school services. There are two very important steps in the assumptions, in the band of the topic of school teachers, that we also revert to the detail of the disappearance of students in the institutes and start a new stage with more scholarships and more scholarships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the feminism of the 21st century and public policies]] [[310-00303/12]] The next question is about the feminism of the 21st century and public policies, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Aurora Madaula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. This week we will celebrate the day of March 8th, the International Day of the Donors, which for some years has become a mass and global movement, which unites the women of the whole world in the feminist struggle for equality, against masculinism and patriarchy. Feminism is a revolutionary movement, because all the movements that pretend to change the state of things are. But it is that, moreover, this revolutionary feminism, which is not rhetorical but profound, has adopted new forms of expressing itself, of denouncing oppression and domination. The name "fourth wave of feminist demand has found in the new technologies and social networks the means to become a great phenomenon of masses that generate consciousness, struggle, sorority and denunciation. Social networks, unfortunately, do not change their minds, do not have political content, and therefore do not end up with masculinism. Social networks are a medium that feminist struggle has known how to use to denounce abuses. Feminism exists because pervious masculinism. The already known campaign« Me too that has been put on the march to denounce the sexual assaults suffered by women, in the national sphere has expanded with other campaigns of complaint, as now the movement On Are the Dones, that wants to sensitize and make visible the women to the public space. Also the campaign "Rights return the door, which warns about the violation of the rights of workers of the street and the cures. Or the most recent « MatxisEI, which serves to warn that masclism, unfortunately, does not know ideological or geographic borders. All these small movements are part of the fourth feminist wave that I have just emerged and which combat masculinism and patriarchy by using social networks that help to make the problem visible. One example is the case of the researcher from the University of Girona who denounced masculinism in the academic field through Twitter. Unfortunately, the impulse of policies that work for women's rights coincides with the rise of fascism and negationism, which sees and tries to limit the rights of girls – also with the nickname "parental pine", with this extreme right that trivializes the feminist struggle. He will advise, for this reason, that we denounce, ask him what is the government's grasp for what he does to the impulse of transformative feminist public policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.59.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.60.0	Thank you, President. Madam Madaula, I agree with you in feminism, in the recognition of feminism, in the feminist struggle and in the struggle against negationism – as you have just explained to us – and in which our policies must be uncomplicatedly feminist. And if in principle the feminist idea was to create a world without exclusions for women, this ideal was enriched with the idea of changing the very notion of rights and citizenship. And, as you said, we're on the fourth wave of feminism and we won't get a full equality if we don't get all involved in this fight, men and women. And if every wave of feminism has been characterized by a revolution, a sense of doubt, the revolution of the fourth feminist wave is to incorporate the new masculinities. In fact, the new masculinities can be an ally of feminism, because they break the patriarchal structure and we all know that while society remains patriarchal it will not have real equality. I want to remind you that one of the main sources of gender inequality is in the configuration of relations between public and private space. And feminist struggles have resulted in women fessin' the path of the personal sphere to the public sphere. And yes, we still have a glass floor but there are, even though the Brittany still exists, as we were able to see in the presentation of the 2020 data of the Observers of the Igualtate de Genère. But now we have to rethink our policies from the reconstruction of public and private space. Now it's essential that men do the process we've done for women, but vice versa. Men must enter private space. Therefore, questioning oneself, reshaping or deconstructing the traditional and impossible form of being a man is one of the greatest reptes of feminism. And public policies must be feminist policies that facilitate this transition, such as policies that incorporate men's treatment into the role of men, or policies about the use of time, or policies to educate in an egalitarian sexuality. And it is, as Angela Davis said: "Feminism is the radical idea that women are people, and that is why we need radical feminism and being radically feminist. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the future of automotive in Catalonia]] [[310-00310/12]] The next question is about the future of automotive in Catalonia, and the formula, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduard Pujol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.62.0	Counselor Chacon, good morning. The automotive sector is strategic. In Catalonia we are one of the great European car manufacturers, and we want to continue feeling it. And I understand that this is, indeed, the Government's will. In Catalonia, the automotive industry accounts for 20,7_percent of GDP, standing five points above the average in the Spanish State. First of all, the automotive sector accounts for 10.2_percent of GDP, and in turn drives research and science and gives work to more than 143,000 people, who are a lot of people, which is the sum of the population of the High Penedès and High Camp – in addition. In Catalonia there are factory SEAT, Volkswagen Group, and Nissan, Renault Group. In the case of SEAT, the first 80 were complicated after the Fiat auction, because it was a first-class technology orphan, SEAT had to find the technological, commercial and business alliances that made it as we know it today. And it wasn't easy. Under Volkswagen's ownership – and this is also an important point – 93 opened Martorell's factory and entered a new industrial order. We went from manufacturing thousands of cars because, in order to sell, generating large stocks..., we went to the idea of a car manufactured only under demand, eliminating stocks but demanding an agile, adaptable auxiliary industry, which is this auxiliary industry we have today. Where are we? The SEAT is known worldwide as the manufacturer of Barcelona and the past year sold 570,000 units; it is a record. The Nissan, in change, saw a situation surrounded by more questions. But the big questions are global and they go to the joint venture of the industry. The car as the idea is changing paradigm. We are immersed in the fourth industrial revolution. Brands are no longer defined solely as manufacturers, but are drivers of great responses to mobility. And here comes the global debate of the electric car and its intervals, through the hybrid. The car has to be compatible with the fight against climate change. It can't contaminate today because it does, and the car knows it. These responses, which are global, will have a local impact, and it is in this context that the entire industrial automotive ecosystem in Catalonia will have to adapt to the production of this electric vehicle. Counselor, you have designed a support plan for the automotive industry, you have analyzed the sector...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.63.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. To answer the word, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mrs. Maria Àngels Chacón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.64.0	Thank you, President. Member, indeed, we are aware that the automotive and mobility sector is not only a structural sector, it represents, as you said, this 10.2_percent of our GDP. More than 143,000 people working there, it is also a structuring sector: apart from the two great manufacturers, we have more than two thousand companies that depend on this sector. And it's a sector that's in the middle of a perfect storm: technological changes, changes in consumption habits, which you've been thinking about, and also all the decarbonization criteria. What have we done? Analyze. Analyzing and seeing how this sector will, therefore, be transformed. What's the first analysis we've done? What will happen if the combustion car evolution to the electric car is maintained? The year 2025 is predicted that 25 percent of the cars will already be electric and this leads us to change the manufacturing of many suppliers. From here, we have analyzed 325 companies with twelve systems and one hundred and eight subsystems, thread by thread, we have done it from the department, and we have classified the companies after this analysis according to their impact. In the next five years, if that's not the case... 24 companies need immediate action, 211 companies– 44,000 workers– need a transformation period in the next five years and 90 companies need not suffer because they are manufacturers of components linked to the electric vehicle. Thus, 211 businesses, forty-thousand jobs peril if we don't do anything in the next five years. We've actually set out to work on this automobile platform. What does this plan propose? This place has been agreed with socioeconomic agents and has also been talked to the different actors of the ecosystem, and we propose forty-eight very detailed actions, in turn. Because if we don't do anything, all these jobs are in danger, because here it's not about making a piece and a temporary solution to such an important sector, here it's about adapting a sector to this new context, keeping it competitive and, above all, maintaining and creating quality jobs. That's why, precisely, we've done this study, and we're pushing the automotive platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the implementation of the Housing Decree]] [[317-00177/12]] After the questions to the Government, let's go to the questions to the President of the Generality. And the first formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.66.0	Thank you, President. What steps would you take if some Okupas occupied your private home? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.67.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.68.0	Miri, so I'd post it in communication from the Mossos, apply and ask you to apply the law. I am a private person, who has his home, I am not a great owner, and therefore, I think that, depending on how you developed this mysterious question, so maybe I can answer it with a little more common sense.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.69.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.70.0	Thank you, President. Well, I have actually asked you what you would do if you were occupied by some Okupas, worth the redundancy, your private home. And, as it was predictable – you said it yourself – you answered with little common sense. And above all with little empathy; that exercise of necessary empathy, let me do it myself. Indeed, you would do the first thing if that were to happen to you would be to come to the Mossos. And you know what they'd tell you? They do not have any instruments to act after the Housing Decree they have passed, if they already had few. Then you, irritated, would go to justice, and justice would tell you – in fact, you just notified them – that it is inadmissible for your Housing Decree to offer more guarantees and rights to the okupa than to the owner. You would be absolutely unprotected and without solutions. But I'm going to ask you for a more relevant empathy exercise on an even more crucial issue. Look, you're not on any social housing waiting list, neither am I, but I have friends and family who are in that situation, and you're likely to too. Let's see if thinking about them can do that empathy exercise a little bit better. How would you feel – how would you feel – if after waiting two or three years on a waiting list you saw that those who kick you at the door into a home and enter have more rights? What kind of society are you pushing from your government? The law of the jungle? The one who protects those who enter a flat and then, desperate families, hire the services of dubious legality to get them out of there, in mafias who probably already participated in the previous occupation? Indeed, Mr. Torra, it is very likely that you will not be occupied by your private home and so do not be so clear, but think for a moment about the people, the number of families who are living in this situation, and immediately repeal the Housing Decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.71.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.72.0	Yes; the truth is that I could imagine anything with which you today asked to try to cover the day's escandol, well, the escandol until eleven in the morning, which is what we know today, isn't it? , that an activist of his, Mr. Carlos Vidal, therefore, until three weeks before entering the Central Electoral Board, eh? , was a People's Party activist, and then continued to resolve appeals from the Central Electoral Board ; a very similar case to that of Mr Betancor, which after I suppose we will have occasion to talk to him. [[Greetings.]] I could imagine any question, except maybe this one, couldn't I? , and with the degree of demagoguery with which you have raised this whole issue. Because I can assure you that just what this government has tried and always sought, and has approved in the decree just as you were considering, and which makes reference, therefore, to the great tenors..., is because we want social justice to prevail above all else in this country. Social justice, which are quite antithetical terms, respects what you and your parliamentary group usually defend. And, indeed, we have not had the complicity of the judiciary at this point, we have not had it, and that is precisely why we are taking advantage of it – I am now commenting on it with the Councillor of Justice and with the Councillor of Territories – all the opportunities we have – all of them – we will look at them until the last detail to see if the procedural aspects that the judiciary has now attached, the Catalan judiciary has attached in order to not be able to apply this decree..., so it can be applied. Because that's what we want to do, to apply this decree. In addition, as the councillor commented, and we have certainly been discussing these days at the Executive Board, the new investments we will make in housing will also allow the citizenry..., and it has also been seen, and now, even taking advantage of these 72_millions that they offer us, so applying the spending rule will also apply a very important part to housing, because it is one of the main problems in the country, and this government is absolutely compromised. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.73.0	Thank you, President [[Question to the President of the Generality on the table of dialogue between governments]] [[317-00178/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.74.0	Thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. President, we want to know if you believe in the dialog table between governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.75.0	To answer the question, you have the word president of the Generalitat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.76.0	The proof that I believe in it is that I feel it. Which, if I may, also – and you have already asked such direct questions – I would like to know if your group believes in the right to Catalonia's self-determination. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.77.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.78.0	It's the government's control session. Likewise, I will answer him: yes, we believe in him. And, therefore, your answer is also that you do not share the statements made by Mrs. Clara Ponsati saying that the dial table was a trick and that it only served to save Pedro Sánchez time. In any case, we want to make it clear that we would like to defend that the act that was celebrated in Perpiny can be done at any point in Catalonia, in the Spanish State, and that this is not evidence of the exceptional situation we have. But we also want to put on the table that this act was the exit stretch of the Junts electoral campaign for Catalonia, because we are in the campaign, fortunately, from what you said "presuppositions and elections." Fortunately, he did. And it's not a personal perception. I think it's obvious that other independent forces that aren't together for Catalonia also share it, obviously. And it's an evidence, because either they didn't watch the act or they did it in a stubborn way. And in this act, what we were able to prove is that Juntes per Catalunya continues in the logic of the failed lives, of the times of the past, and, moreover, in a language of confrontation, that I believe that it does not lead us to talk about "final struggle and also of" winners and losers. President, I believe that now that a new scener has been opened in the Spanish Government, it is also time to open a new stage in Catalonia, because the situation is each time more unsustainable for the barricades they have between the members of the Government, and that is why elections are called as soon as possible. And, besides, I think that some elections everywhere, where the citizenry knows well what every political force is defending – I insist –, because today we have known that one_of_each_four voters from Junts for Catalonia bets by the unilateral way and perhaps what you are doing is, on the one hand, to be at the table of the dialog, but, on the other, to say that it is a deception or that it only serves for Pedro Sánchez to gain time. I'm telling you, for us, this dial table is an opportunity that can't be ignored and that can't be used – and that's also important – as electoral ammunition. We know that the solution will not be easy or quick, but I am also saying this: in one table alone, the dialogue between governments has been made easier than in three meetings of the dialogue table in Catalonia, where we have neither a calendar nor a work plan. I'd like to think, President, that the dial table in Catalonia is not a trick. [[Greetings.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.80.0	Yeah, he didn't answer me, did he? , his position respects the right to the self-determination of Catalonia. No, no, no, no, no, no. (Founding voice) Or at least, if I may, at the meeting we held in Moncloa, the representatives of your group or those closest to your group did not answer us; this I can assure you, that in that table they did not answer us, which I regret, because we thought that perhaps on the other side of the table representing the State – now that you are in government – we would find a receptivity to the Catalan proposal based on the exercise of the right of self-determination and an amnesty. And we didn't find it, because it didn't answer to anything. So we still don't know what the position of the Spanish State, the government of the PSOE and of Podemos on the exercise of the right to self-determination and amnesty is. We hope that in the next meeting, therefore, this can be done, because I think it is very important to know the two exit positions of the two governments. For us it is, I insist – more than that, it was a granite position of the Catalan delegation, and, more than that, I congratulated all the members of the Catalan delegation – exercise right to self-determination and the fission of repression. Of course, it's very simple. We would like to know on the part of the State what the solution is – they can say it with a phrase – and that's what we expect to know at a time, so what is the position of the Spanish State. On which Mrs. Clara Ponsatí commented, therefore, to me, allow me to tell her that I am not left with any of the independence world and less an exile. I am not left with any exile, which they have all my respect – all my respect – and which I think we need – I have always said – the strength of the unity of all the independence movement, all with its different accents. But we need it, we need it precisely because of the difficulty it involves negotiating with the Spanish State. Because, obviously, we move between skepticism and prudence; it's just that I would miss, that we know very well before whom we are negotiating. And therefore, logically, we need the strength of unity; we need mobilization, all mobilizations, as the honourable Member pointed out now, and we need a clear answer on our part. We put it on the table. I want to know from time to time what is the position of the Spanish Government respecting sovereignty, which is the point that we are discussing: the sovereignty of Catalans. Right to self-determination, yes or no, and amnesty, yes or no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.81.0	President, thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the fight against male violence]] [[317-00176/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.82.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Many honourable President of the Generality, in the wake of the preparation of March 8th, of the International Day of the Rights of Women, our parliamentary group wishes to express its commitment to the defence of the rights of women and to feminist policies, which are an indispensable tool for advancing towards a society free of masculinism. But, president, we believe, in change, that for the Government of the Generality the struggle against male violence is not treated as a priority. I'll give you some examples. The resources dedicated to specific policies towards women is 10_million euros, a xifra that does not even recover the previous endowment to the retail, that 2010 was almost 12_million euros. According to them, Catalonia has a network of attention that above only one of two women victims of male violence; new of each of them are left out of any type of attention. Thirdly, women who suffer from male violence have a lot of problems accessing the compensations that the Generality foresees for these cases. Between 2015 and 2019 only one woman rejected this help, and during this same period, there were seven_ thousand convictions for male violence and sixty_ thousand complaints. Fourthly, the new resources that the Government of the Generality has announced for this issue will be largely removed from the resources of the State Pact against General Violence. They are resources transferred by the central government to sum up, not to replace what they should do and not make the communities that, like Catalonia, have the skills transferred. And that is why, President, I ask you if you believe that every effort is being made by the government, that every resource is being devoted, and that every facility is being given to victims of male violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.83.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality, whenever he wishes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.84.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. I think that before the councillor could already express who the position is, in general, of the government respects a theme that is certain that, despite the legal recognition of equality between men and women, despite the struggle against male and sexual violence, despite this greater awareness, despite the resources that I have now and the government actions that I can now explain, so the data continue to see this reality that you are exposing, it is true. As there is an index of the poor that concerns the country, as there are so many fears that we are concerned about the country that, certainly, as well as the determined action of the Government and the priority of the Government, the reality is this and, therefore, I believe that we must do this exercise sincerely to say that the women continue to paint discrimination, violence, inequality and that therefore it is necessary not only to commemorate, celebrate with full force on March 8th, but also to actually do these exercises and I think that it would be very good that in this Parliament we have long sessions in which we can actually debate all this point. It was also said and commented, to me, on the presentation you made this week, that the equality index of 2017 in Catalonia was 70,9_per_cent, which is a better one than 60 of us came from, but it is far from what we aspire to. And if you ask me now, then I will come in very concretely to explain to you, with the assumptions of 2020, what will be the concrete actions that we will do on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.85.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.86.0	Yes, thank you, President. Very honourable President, we believe that the government has not done everything it would like to do, and I have set some very concrete examples for it. We believe that it is necessary to reinforce actions in the field of prevention and fighting against male violence and to prevent situations of discrimination against women and male violence from childhood and beyond life. I do not doubt his good will, but I demonstrate, with facts and resources, that the struggle against male violence is really a priority and that the resolutions of the specific plethora that we celebrated on this issue are complete.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.88.0	You're already more specific about the presuppositions of 2020. In the first place, we incorporate a gender perspective. It is the first time that the Generality's assumptions include a gender perspective for all its parties: Policies of struggle against male-based violence and of 12,7_million finalist entrances to the state's gender-based violence platform will serve to strengthen the integrated network of victims of male-based violence, with eight openings we serve as specialized intervention, with a 15-story opening bridge for women who have suffered male-based violence and their daughters; they will increase by 2_million euros the endowment of the program contract of the Catalan Institute of Donations; they will deploy an advisory service and professional training in the field of sexual violence. We want to reform the law of male violence. We want to continue to deploy the STEMcat platform and ICT women, also very important and we want to incorporate the perspective of gender...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.89.0	President, he's running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.90.0	...to the evaluation of the projects that need to be funded... (The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.91.0	Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the table of dialogue between governments]] [[317-00180/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.92.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies. We are insisting, President, that we return to political negotiation in this Parliament as a complementary, irrevocable and ally of the street. The company Bernat Solé said a short time ago: "It's our double strength. For one band, a mobile street, you claim, in constant confrontation with the State and, for the other, political negotiation, a way to unravel the choice and give up a reference of self-determination and amnesty to which until now we wanted closed and silenced. It's not counterposed, it's feedback, it's multiplicity of efficiency. That's how we understand it. Mobilization maximizes our strength at the table, and so we defend it and ask ourselves if this is also your position, President. We do not want to give up our way, our way, our way, because the political objective that we are pursuing in the Catalan Republic of social justice and equal opportunities is irrefutable and we will keep it that way: in the streets, in the institutions before political opponents, from prisons and from exile. And here we ride everybody, everybody. And one way is to negotiate, and if we're going to have an extreme negotiating table in Madrid, it's because republicanism today is stronger than it's ever been, and we asked you to lead it, president, as it couldn't be in any other way. Now, the table is a government-to-government space, which is recognized and committed to working to resolve a political conflict. We all know that we can't trust a letter, President, and we won't. We are not illusory; we know better that no one in this Spanish state, but president, disbanded we felt as if he was talking about the negotiating table, lacking it; you see that, from his acronyms, less than the table where you, the vice president, two councillors and deputies of this same chamber were sitting to look for a political exit for this country, and we do not understand, president, as, in a political space, you can try to defend self-determination and amnesty – that when you have a common strategy – but at the same time, a few hours later, you can carry it hard and bitterly. In the past, you led the Catalan delegation to the Bureau and assured the press that you would never get up from the negotiating table and disband your political space publicly that instrument, debilitating, for us, our position. President, it's obvious, as I was giving it to Mrs. Albiach right now, that we all need it, but now we need to know what her position is. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. (Applause.) To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.94.0	Yes, well, thank you, Congressman. I was surprised by this final part of your exposure, because I think I've commented to Mrs. Albiach, so, just my... my sense of belonging respects the independence movement. I think you meant it that way, don't you? There's no one left for me. There's no one left me in the independence movement, I can tell you. And this has always been my position. I come from unitary countries, I've always searched for unity in all the actions I've driven, and I can assure you that I've always put the country before the game, always, in all the questions. We have never denied that the political conflict must be resolved politically, but we do not go hand in hand. We don't go hand in hand, we know perfectly well who the Spanish State is, we know all the complications that this dialog entails, and you are the first to recognize it. Normally, every time we have to talk about this subject, you always talk about the skepticism with which you go, too, to this negotiating table. You're the first ones to ever serve him. I think it's prudent to reschedule this skepticism. It's true, we're moving between skepticism and prudence, certainly, aren't we? But we are very clear that we want the exercise of the right to self-determination and amnesty. And that's what I'm putting in front of everything, me. Because I didn't come here to do toilets. I put in front of all the exercise of the right to self-determination and amnesty. And I'm sure – they must agree with me – that the best way out, the one we want, the one we fight, the one that makes us understand each other for the whole fight of these last few years is to get out of this trading table with a date for the reference. I'm sure you all share that. And this must be the position of the Catalan delegation. We are going to negotiate, as the Vice President said, sovereignty – sovereignty – because this is the conflict. The political conflict is sovereign; it is from the right of Catalans to the exercise of self-determination. And before that, I had the intention, precisely, to put into value the common position with which we went in this negotiation. So, listen, meeting isn't the point, huh? The goal is to exercise sovereignty, it's to take this date to be able to exercise the reference, which I think is what we share. And I would like to, therefore, get out of this debate today with this optimism that we share this same objective. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.95.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about irregularities in the Central Electoral Board]] [[317-00179/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.96.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Very honorable President Torra, last week and today we have seen how they appear at the media news reports of heavy, very heavy, irregular to the Central Electoral Board. For example, it has been discovered that Ciutadans had a member of the Central Electoral Board; it is said, with one hand they wrote the resolutions to present them to the Central Electoral Board and with the other hand the resolutions. Unprecedented case. That's a crime, that's a criminal. It's a crime of prevarication, it's an electoral crime, it's a crime of bribery... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.97.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.98.0	...it's a very hard thing. They are judicious and part of transcendental resolutions, which we have seen throughout this time as it has affected us, from the 21st of December to the day of today, in Catalan politics, the rights and rights of many citizens and political parties here in Catalonia. For example, we were not allowed, the Central Electoral Board, that President Puigdemont participated in electoral debates. The Central Electoral Board did not allow political prisoners to participate in electoral rallies, as was the campaign of 21 December. It is not allowed that President Puigdemont, Clara Ponsatí and Toni Comín anessin in some lists to European elections. And, despite winning these European elections and being elected as MEPs, as the Court of Justice of the European Union has said, the Central Electoral Board for six months did not allow it to accede to the MEP's report, as it is with Vice-President Junqueras. Or, for example, with you, Mr President, who want to remove the condition of a deputy to disqualify him, precisely the Central Electoral Board. The decisions of the Central Electoral Board during these two years should be the one that should be disabled. She's a disgrace. I should've thrown them in the face of shame. They've been cheating, they've bought the referee, and they've been playing with something basic, which is democracy and the rights and freedoms of people. They say they're the champions of regeneration and they're the champions of regression. That's corruption. From Juntes per Catalunya we condemn these facts that have occurred, very difficult, that want to alter political life in Catalonia. We want a state that has democracy and democratic quality. And in this sense, president, we ask him what his capture is about these hard facts that we can see and that they want to alter the representation of the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.99.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.100.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.101.0	Thank you. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.102.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. I totally agree with you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, "what" weird isn't, why do you imagine that? You mean you're going to any other country in the world? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Can you imagine having a political party, a member of the Central Electoral Board..., working day by day for a political party and on the evening settling the same demands they made? [[Greetings.]] But in which democratic country of the world can anyone imagine this happening? So, listen, two cups. Because today we know that Mr. Carlos Vidal of the PP, a PP activist, was also on the Central Electoral Board. Well, that, for you, you have to look normal, but out of here I assure you that everyone finds it an aberration, even ethical and moral, an ethical aberration. And you should be the first to say, "Listen to me, this is a scandal. You should be the first. Home, that's good! And I don't think it's the Central Electoral Board anymore. In fact, the question of democracy is clear. I mean, it's here, I don't know, but things happen that don't happen, right? These days I was reviewing the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and, listen to me, they're doing a review, reading from the first point, which talks about human dignity, until the last point, and we're looking at all these two years what's happened in this country and what's going on. So, this Central Electoral Board performance, this performance of these members, puts all the resolutions that have emerged, all of them, on hold. I, in concrete terms, if I may, therefore – and in this case I regret having to talk about myself – my own. And I'd ask this room for two things, two. In the first place, u, that recovers the law of a own electoral union, of this chamber, so that we no longer have to pass through the Central Electoral Board but for the unions of this country. [[Greetings.]] And, two, now that we already know how this resolution came about, now that we already know how these resolutions were flawed, because politically this was a persecution against independence, I ask this chamber, based on the vote of the 4th generation, to ask you, President, that you reconsider the decision to withdraw the escó and that, therefore, I can re-hold all the rights as the deputy of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.103.0	The next question... [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the irregular situation of a member of the Provincial Electoral Board of Barcelona]] [[317-00175/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.104.0	Thank you, Mr Batet; thank you, Mr Torra. They have heated this control session, this Fake control session that is done to a gentleman who is not president of the Generalitat because he is not a deputy, but who is supported by the president, Mr Torrent, of this chamber, and that is why we are forced to do some sort of control sessions that are not such. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We've taken this matter... [[Someone says, "To the election board.]] No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.105.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.106.0	...no, to the electoral board, no, to the Constitutional Court, which has already given us the reason six times, gentlemen, six times. [[Greetings.]] Look, and Mr. Torra must have forgotten Mr. Marc Marsal, who has it at the salary of his government, which is of the Provincial Electoral Board of Barcelona. [[applause]] and the councillor who plugged in Mr Puigdemont in 2016 and put him on the electoral board this fake that they made in the wrong laws called ‘disconnection'. And that gentleman at the Provincial Electoral Board of Barcelona has voted against disqualifying Mr Puigdemont..., Mr Torra, from whom he collects money. [[Greetings.]] And Mr Marc Marsal has also voted against preventing TV3 from reporting to separatist candidates. Oh, that's weird! Oh! [[Greetings.]] Wow, I think you have to swallow your words, gentlemen. They can't give us lessons in democracy. But, look, Mr. Torrent is to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.107.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.108.0	...to Mr. Torra we still understand, we still can understand. But that, after the things that are heard here, after your reaffirmation of making more than half of the population of Catalonia claudiate with their independenceist pretensions, Mr Sánchez and the Socialist Party sit with you at that blackmail table is intolerable. [[Greetings.]] And I say to them – and I say to them –: « Stop blocking Catalonia. You have Catalonia blocked with a gentleman who cannot even sign valid decrees, therefore, to reduce waiting lists or child poverty, because he is not president. [[Greetings.]] Catalans want solutions, no more trouble, Mr Torra. Do not enshrine yourselves in your theme, in your monotheme, octopusing the house of all Catalans. You're an okupa. They were talking about okupas before... you an okupa! [[Greetings.]] Go home at once, Mr. Torra, and unlock Catalan politics. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.109.0	Congressman, time's up. [[Greetings.]] To answer the words of the President of the Generality. When he wants to. [[Greetings.]] President, when you say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.110.0	President, I regret that in this chamber you insult yourself with impunity. [[Greetings.]] I'm sorry, I'm very sorry, and you don't protest. I was just saying, you're in this room. If I had just said "do it." [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.111.0	President... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet, everybody. Quiet! President, I continued, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.112.0	No, I won't, President. I will not go on for two things: first, because I am insulted, and, second, because there is no question; nothing has been asked of me, it was a rally. [[Greetings and remorse.]] And I think it's up to the parliamentary groups to ask – ask. There was no question, no question – no question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.113.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.114.0	Therefore, I have no obligation to answer any question. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.115.0	All right. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. [[Pause.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the International Day of Asperger Syndrome]] [[401-00028/12]] Let's go on, we're done with the control session, with the order of the day. And the next point is the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the International Day of Asperger Syndrome. We will continue to read this Declaration on the International Day of Asperger Syndrome and will read the third secretary, Mrs. Laura Vílchez, to whom I give the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.116.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the International Day of Asperger Syndrome. The 18th of February commemorated the International Day of Asperger's Syndrome, a day of celebration and demand all over the world, in which people with Asperger's syndrome and other disorders of the autistic spectrum and their families become protagonists. Asperger's syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder that causes an alteration in the processing of information. Affected persons do not present apparent symptoms or decreases in intellectual abilities – sometimes, to the point that they may still be above average in some respects – but the brain works in a particular way and often have special abilities in restricted areas. This disorder, which persists throughout life and affects one_of_each_five-nine people, even though it is manifested in different ways in each individual, presents common traits: difficulties in communication and social relations, alteration of non-verbal patterns of communication, limited interests, inflexibility of thinking and behavior, difficulties in executive and planning functions, and difficulties in interpreting and managing emotions, both close to and between aliens. All these particularities are not seen at first sight. For this reason, it is difficult to understand that people without distinction that make them look different have the recognition of a social disability that explains their behaviors. With the will that this social disability becomes an expression of society's neurodiversity and that people with Asperger and other disorders of the driver's spectrum and their families have the support and understanding of it in all spheres of life, the Parliament of Catalonia is committed to old age because these people can develop their full potential in a formal, supportive, understanding and teaching environment adapted to all educational stages; they can have an effective work inclusive, both in the public sector and in the private sector, with specific employment policies and an incentive to contract; they can enjoy an adequate and comprehensive health care, and they can allow for the loss of life. People, when they can fully develop, become important actors for society. People with Asperger's syndrome can also be like full-right members of a diverse, respectful, inclusive, equitable, just and welcoming society, from which everyone can feel proud and to which everyone can contribute his talent. Palau del Parlament, March 4, 2020. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.117.0	We're still on the order of the day. [[Decree-Law No 1/2020 of the 21st generation, amending Decree-Law No 17/2019 of 23 December 2019 on urgent measures to improve access to housing]] [[203-00026/12]] The next item is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 1/2020, of the 21st generation, for which the Decree Law 17/2019, of the 23rd of December, is amended of urgent measures to improve access to housing. In accordance with Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability will intervene in the first place to expose the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the advisor Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.118.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillors, advisors, Members and Members, the truth is that we have reconciled a little with this reading and approval of the Declaration on Asperger's Syndrome, after the "wrong we had had during the session of oral questions, a "wrong in which, from my point of view, the very concept of democracy has been distorted. In any case, I am close to defending the validation of Decree 1/2020, which complements Decree 17/2019, which we have validated, therefore, relatively little, of urgent measures in the matter of housing. And I'm close to doing it in a _marc where recently things have happened about housing, right? And, therefore, the debate on the validation of this decree I believe will not be able to take them away. In the first place, we have known – this is a few days ago – the position of the judiciary respects one of the intentions of Decree 17/2019, which is precisely to avoid a type of denunciation. And the judiciary, with a very restrictive reading – after which I will refer – of Decree 17/2019, so, in short, has not done so. In any case, with what we intend to do today we reinforce Decree 17/2019 and with what we will do as a government and with what we will even plan to do at the level of Congress of Deputies, so we will also strengthen at the end this political will, which must be able to materialize..., political will, social need that must be able to materialize into instruments. I also present the validation... [[Addressing the Bureau.]] I have more time, don't I? What about the one that marks me here? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, all right, all right. You're the one with the minutes. Forgive me, huh? He'd changed me by now. All right. Also... – no, I will be brief, anyway; or I will try to do so – we also mark this presentation of the validation and the proposal to Parliament because I validated it in the debate that we had today with Mrs Ibarra, of the Socialist Group, and what there was also between the Parliamentary Group of the PP and the President of the Generality, who referred to housing issues, right? It is a sign that you are afraid that they are, therefore, on the political agenda and to which we must face. And it also stands out in the news, which I want now also to subrate, from this major allocation of resources to housing policies, huh? A total of €72 million has been obtained from this debt flexibility which we cannot apply to the cent per cent, but if we apply the rule of expenditure, it is a minor one. This, in all effects, therefore, does not replace the historical debt of the State. I am referring not only to the tax deficit or non-payments of the third additional provision, but also to this more recent VAT debt: 400_million euros that do not arrive and that if they arrive at us they will still be able to better equip policies, among others, with housing, by decompatible. That's like what you have, say, an invoice to collect, and when you're going to collect it in accounts to donate money to it, they give it a loan, right? In short, it's a little surprising, but we'll take advantage of it. We will take advantage of this situation without failing to denounce it and without failing to complain, therefore, this need to dispose of all our resources, to manage them, to make better policies, among others of housing, and also to do so, as it cannot otherwise be, with solidarity. In any case, satisfied to be able to carry this validation here, to debate the Parliament. We've already explained in your moment, at the end of your generation, that the decree I'm reading urgent measures – the one we've validated in this chamber, huh? – they intend to respond to the consequences of the crisis, to the difficulties of families, people and families, in order to maintain housing. The denouncements multiplied, the denouncements multiplied between 2003 and 2018; 88,000 cases only in Catalonia. And, therefore, this is a reality that we have to face with all kinds of measures: with the government, that is to say, the help that we are doing, therefore, managing any other year, with difficulties, effectively, but also with legislative instruments. The country cannot wait for the time involved in a procedure for the elaboration of an ordinary law which, therefore, embraces all the housing issues, and that is why we have been developing specific concrete measures, in the form of a law decree: that of 17/2019, which we are presenting today, and we are also very likely to present other measures in the hands of the Department of Justice, in collaboration also with the Department of Territories, in order to help have a more complete policy in the field of housing. But I want to say specifically that in these years of crisis, with these amounts of denunciation that we have had, they have been destined and have continued to allocate a lot of public resources, aid and benefits to prevent habitat loss. The year 2012 there were 50_million euros and this year 2018, of which we have closed, say, the data most recently, we have dedicated 130_million euros. The most recent data is that of 2019, which is 101_million. Before, in the debate with Mrs Ibarra, there is a reference: this jifra does not see the whole of the National Housing Plan; it is a third part of the National Housing Plan, which is absolutely insufficient– and I insist that they must help us to improve this substantially– and two thirds that come from the generality's propitious assumptions, which now, moreover, we will increase. All these amounts have obviously been allocated to reallocate people and families who have lost their habitat because of the impossibility of paying for the habitat, i.e., the mortgage or the logger. The housing emergence has been achieved through benefits and the destination of the total use of the social housing stock available to people and families who had lost the housing. In this provision of the housing stock I also want, therefore, to make explicit reference to the fact that since the Government of the Generality and through Decree 1/15 we have been able to enter into a dynamic of buying housing by chance and retraction to which others have not yet arrived, and, in any case, we are exploiting it and want to exploit it as much as possible. There should be money from the National Housing Bank in order to be able to allocate it to you and to retract it, which we cannot now allocate to you. But, in any case, the risk of social exclusion also persists in important sections of the citizenry, which have difficulties in getting out of the crisis, where the crisis brought them, in the case of young people who also suffer from the precariousness of the labour market with serious difficulties to emancipate themselves, in short, to access the market of housing. It is necessary, therefore, to provide us with legislation, and this was a wish that we said when we validated Decree 17/2019, a legislation that merges and the multitude of tools that we have given ourselves over these years, huh? I am talking about the basic law, that of the right to housing, but also – now the reference – of Decree 1/15, of 24/15, of 4/16 or of this same Decree 17/2019. We will have to put this up to date, we will have to put all the legislation on housing up to date; but in any case, this decree of urgent measures and this complement that we present today, this decree 1/2020, we consider that they are essential to deal with the situation. That's why we did it: urgent measures, and now we complement them. I want to detail the features of the text we're carrying today to validation, which is short, huh? It's a nuance, an appreciation, a better one, isn't it? Of which we've already validated. The Decree Law 1/2020 solves some doubts of technical and legal nature that might appear, which actually appeared while we had just debated and presented the Decree 17/2019, huh? They appeared, we didn't have time to incorporate it into the same decree and, therefore, we chose to make a supplementary decree and today we take it to validation. These doubts arise around the concept of empty habitating. With the modification of the definition of empty habitat that we present today, we harmonize the concept present in the Decree Law 17/2019 with the existing one in other standards: from the Law 18/2007, the basic, the right to habitat, to the dispositions of the Law, the 24/15 or the 4/16. Fix it, huh? This dispersal of standards we have: that of 2007, the 15th, the 16th... With the decree of urgent measures these doubts had come out, we were not in time and, in any case, now we harmonize it. It is necessary, therefore, and this is obvious, that we face an inn on the day of legislation. We have to. This Decree Law, 1/2020, gives the head to recognize the situation of occupations without title enabling vulnerable families in empty habitats, of funded entities, eh? , with great tenors. It was intended to provide coverage to families with an accredited vulnerability who are occupying a dwelling of a financial entity or of a large extent prior to the approval of Decree Law 17/2019. This is the intention and this is the objective. No, therefore, alert around the situation of private housing, as has been tried with the oral question to the President of the Generality. We are talking about the recognition of the situation of occupations with no title enabling great masters, not more. They don't demagogicise on this subject. Because an idea is being developed: 35_percent of the cases of months of successfully resolved emergencies and which remain pending re-location are precisely occupiers with no title enabling habitations of great tenors– 35_per_cent. Therefore, it is obvious that we must give the government's response. Having an open path to avoid its denunciation is important, and that is what we are pushing with this modification, with this Decree 1/2020. We find ourselves before the possibility, in fact before the reality, given the interpretation that the judiciary has made, that funds of reversal that have acquired part of the real estate park of the financial entities, of the bank rescue, can take action against these vulnerable families. And, therefore, it is necessary to avoid that it is converted into denominations, which end up becoming denominations. I have put a lot of emphasis on talking about the bank rescue, about the big bad guys, and I want to get back to it: the bank rescue – which is a reality and which has been produced and which has involved a management situation of the real estate park through funds of reversal – has a social toll, the bank rescue has to have a social toll. And with Decree 17/2019 and with this Decree 1/2020 I think we're on the line of giving us this social toll. And we're proud of the government of the Generality, and I understand that this will be mostly shared by this chamber. The impact of the months of emergence – above all, huh? , in these vulnerable areas, it could be important if we did not incorporate these measures to avoid a significant increase in family denamations that are occupying bank dwellings from, as at least, six months before the passage of the decree. So, we narrow it down, we narrow it down, we define it with a lot of precision, huh? 35_per_cent is a fairly important figure for yourself. We would also like to refer to some of the criticisms that have been made about a supposed risk of cry effect, of call effect to occupy habitats of great lords, to say that it is not so – that it is not so –: neither does cry effect respect habitats of great lords nor on habitats of private individuals, as has been tried, therefore, in fi, explain or report in the oral question of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party to the President of the Generality. There can be no such cry for such an effect, because the decree lays down the measure of compulsory social logger to vulnerable families who have previously occupied the entry into force of the rule, without being applicable in subsequent cases, and, above all, always with favourable reports from municipal social services. Therefore, we are very clear to whom we are addressing, which is the objective of 17/2019 and of this punctuality of Decree 1/2020– we are very clear to whom we are addressing. The text that leads to today's validation reinforces, therefore, the structural character of 17/2019, in this struggle against residential exclusion, and the mechanisms to avoid denunciations of families in a situation of vulnerability, people and families in a situation of accredited vulnerability, which is found in these habitats of great affections. Therefore, this text leads us to reinforce the social dimension of Decree 17/2019, since it is from the protection of the collectivities with a greater risk of residential exclusion from where we believe that we can better ensure that the cases of emergencies are vaguely reduced, that it is our intention, with this decree and with many other measures; among others, with Decree 17/2019 we also enable us, in terms of equipment alone, to make endowment habitats, which we will also allocate to this file. So it's not just, say, they recognize this situation of these cases, but with many more measures than we set this goal, and we get it, to reduce the cases of emergencies. The Decree – let me refer to it again – 17/2019, and this addition, Decree 1/2020, are, therefore, normative tools to serve a shared objective for the majority of this chamber: that the right to housing of vulnerable families is in the midst of the interests of the great fund of investment and the financial entities. I like to think that, in this, we are mostly in agreement. It is not abnormality that since the government is working with the private sector – it is not abnormality. In fact, in order to solve problems, we believe precisely that from the government we set the basic conditions, but then we also call, in public-private collaboration, for the corresponding private sector to be held responsible. Therefore, it is not abnormal that we also call on this responsibility, this collaboration, in the matter of housing. In short, the private sector is also not responsible for the situation to which we have come, and even more so when in many cases we are talking– and I come back to make explicit reference– to the financing of bailouts with public resources and large trusts that have taken place with real estate portfolios of these entities. We also want to take advantage of – I am finished – this validation today to tell you that, as announced yesterday by the Councillor of Justicia, Mrs. Capella, we will soon also make a proposal that has been linked to another standard draft of government to shield the suspensions of the denunciations, bearing in mind that it affects the substantial right, the very character of the lease contract. To the rule that we plan to develop in order to face the increments of the pris de llogers we will add, therefore, all that we can to appeal to this substantial right and to shield the suspensions of the charges. And we will improve, we will improve this article that provoked the Barcelona Provincial Audience's agreement to divest last week, which said it affected the procedural rule. Fix it, huh? We made a decree to avoid, therefore, this situation, but the judiciary, gathered at the provincial hearing, considered that as this affected the procedural rule, there was a conflict in parallel; they had a restrictive reading – now I will mention it – and so, finally, our rule we have to improve. As the government, however, we believe it is not so, but we will make this change that favored it... in short, that there is no excuse for the suspensions of the denunciations that occur every day in the country. They think we can't afford it. And that, I insist, we do because we consider that the courts have made this restrictive reading of the decree that we approved from the government and, with this decision, have allowed the denunciations to continue, that we want to put up with it. I know that when I say that, there's a part of the judiciary that's probably uncomfortable, but I, like the government, think I can't stop saying it. In fact, with the decree recently approved by the Government, there were already judgments that he was used to avoid charges. It was then, gathered together, that they established this... or that they made this restrictive reading and that they established these criteria that we are beginning to strengthen, that we have just strengthened, and that we do not give up strengthening also the Congress of Deputies facing which is the procedural regulations of the Government of the State. Therefore, we ask you that, after the debate, we can validate this Decree 1/2020; that we can reinforce Decree 17/2019. Let them help us to have a better housing policy, which we have defined among all; among the people who in their day promoted the popular legislative initiative that ended up becoming Law 24/15; also, obviously, with the same Platform of Affects for Mortgage; with the Union of Llogateres, which today accompany us to observe and be very attentive to this debate, which we must try to have, in short, better housing policies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.119.0	Thank you, Counselor. We then moved on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. This turn of intervention, according to the Spokesman's Board, will be a maximum of two minutes for each group and five minutes for the subgroup. It has the first word, the deputy Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.120.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor... Look, Mr Calvet, the truth is that I was a little surprised that you came here to talk to us about this decree and to tell us that you are very proud of it, after seeing the report of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, the opinion of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries. It has a unique conclusion, which says that, unanimously, they consider this decree of law to be unconstitutional. And I know that this unconstitutional thing gives you everything, especially if you talk about competences, which is not the case, you talk about the rights of people who are not related to competences. But it is not only that it says that this decree of law is unconstitutional; it says very harsh things, this report, this note of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, which I do not know if it has read, because it has made no reference to it. It says things like this legislative change that they are proposing is a change – and I read literally – « without any rationality – without any rationality –, says the Council's report, the note of the Council for Statutory Guarantees. And he says it's an arbitrary modification because it doesn't make any sense about its content and its potential application result – he says this, and has made no mention of it at any time. Not only that, but he says he's very proud. « Lack of rationality. Does it seem to you that it is to be proud that an opinion, unanimously, concludes that the amendment to the decree you propose has no rationality of any kind, which makes no sense, which is an arbitrary amendment? It's not something I say, it's something the Board of Guarantees says. And I am not able to understand how after this note, which was requested by our group, this opinion which was requested by our group, you continue to come here with the same decree, without making a single amendment. And for those who don't know what the decree is about... because you've talked about housing, and other issues, and vulnerable people and so on, it seems phenomenal to me, but for those who don't know what the decree is about, so I'm going to explain it very quickly. The decree makes an amendment on a previous decree, a very simple amendment, removes a sentence. In the previous decree, what was said was that a floor is considered empty, for when it is not occupied for more than two years, and in the previous decree it said that it was not considered empty if that floor was occupied and if the owner had initiated legal actions to empty it. This is something that seems to have all the common sense of the world. Well, then what this decree does, the only thing that this decree does, is to take away from it all the common sense that that phrase had. And this decree, what it says, is that although..., that is, if you occupy the floor, even if you have started all the legal actions to recover it and to be able to probably put it back for rent, then that floor is considered empty. That is, the people who have occupied a flat that people who do not want to rent an empty house, who enter the same sack and who incur the same obligations and at the risk of the same penalties that people who have an empty house have. Because this change is made in the definition of 'empty housing'; it is not done when we talk about the big forks or when we talk about the obligations they incur or the penalties. This change is made in the definition of 'empty dwelling' in the Decree of Law. And to me the truth is, that doesn't seem normal to me, but it's that the Board of State Guarantees doesn't either. And I listened to him attentively – listen to him attentively – to see how he was trying to defend the indefensible, although the truth is that he has not defended it very much, he has been talking about other things, but he has not defended this issue. This situation is not new. We have already experienced it with the Decree of the VTCs, recommendations that warn you that it is incurring an illegality, that it is processing a law that is unconstitutional, that generates legal insecurity, that violates citizens' rights and that it is also not fair. The other time, we were told by Mr Torra that it was, therefore, for taxi drivers to be calm for Mobile, which seems to me a horrific motive. This time, I suspect that the Lords of Podemos have something to do with, and the approval of the budget, because it is the kind of law that loves the Lords of Podemos, which is to protect those who skip the laws and leave out and unprotect those who comply with them. And this, again... [[Greetings.]] And this, again, is not something I say, it is something that also appears in the note of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, which wanted to reschedule it. The Council of State Guarantees, the Council itself, talks about who can harm legislation such as this, a legislative decree that only by removing a sentence can harm many people, and says – and I also read textually –: "These situations, those of occupation, constituted by force or the way of the facts consummated, apart from the valid procedures established by the public authorities, are liable to unfairly harm those people and families who, also in need, opt for the regular and regulatory ways to access social housing managed by the administrations. But this is the way to make Podemos: to protect those who have obtained a small parcel, even if it is jumping over the laws, instead of worrying that everyone has the same opportunities to access the protection that the State must provide. And... well, with the decree of the VTCs we insisted over and over again that he withdraw it. This time, therefore, again, we ask you to withdraw it before putting it to the vote. I read you something else that says the note of the Board of Guarantees Statutàries. It says: "The right to housing, which is a mandate for the public authorities and at the same time conditions the use of property by the owner in terms of the social function – which, of course, we recognize, the social function of housing – "under no circumstances can cover a restriction as inconsistent and contradictory with the constitutional order as that which is the subject of this opinion. And that's what the Board of State Guarantees says, which is basically appointed by the president and this government. That's what the Statutory Guarantee Board tells them, that's what it is and that it's devoid of all rationality. If they illegally occupy housing, the Administration must make it easier for families to recover them, not take advantage of an eternal legal dispute to give wings precisely to the illegal occupation and the mafias, which exploit the weakest, who need access to housing, and the market is not allowed to do so. In short, this decree of law is unconstitutional; this decree of law violates our rights; this decree of law is irrational, arbitrary and unjust. That's what the Board of State Guarantees says. And it is that, above all, it does not even fulfill its function, the social function of providing housing to those who need it most. And you know perfectly well that, if it were not for the ruling of the Constitutional Court, this opinion of the Board of State Guarantees would be binding, it would be a binding opinion. Well, they have the opportunity to ignore that... well, not to pay attention, no one is going to protest them for doing it, to pay attention to what they originally wanted to do and to do the binding thing and withdraw this decree of law. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialists Group and Units to advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.122.0	Yes, thank you, President. Councillors will take us to the validation of Decree 1/2020, of 21 of gener, which modifies 17/2019, of urgent measures to improve access to housing; a decree that has been object of opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which determines its unconstitutionality. And he did it unanimously. And it seems surprising to us, as a minimum, that the Councillor did not at any time refer to this opinion of the Council of State Guarantees during his intervention. If you'll let me, counselor, you've done a little stratification of the structure: you've stunned the head under the ground and passed the legal reality of long, haven't you? The Council of State Guarantees considers that the only article of the decree is unconstitutional, because it violates Articles 9.3 and 33 of the Constitution, for which it does the suppression, as a justified cause of permanent unemployment of the habitat..., the occupation of this one, without legitimate title, when the owner, already a funded entity, already a fund of investment, already a particular with more than fifteen habitats, believed to have initiated the appropriate judicial actions for their recovery, before completing the two-year deadline to consider the habitat as empty. In concrete terms, the Council understands that Catalan housing legislation has as its aim the social function of housing, and that this is an objective to protect constitutionally. But, at times, it collides – in the way it is regulated in this decree – with other constitutional rights. And it is that the measure collected in this decree is, according to the council, arbitrary, therefore, counter to the arbitrariness chain derived from Article 9.3 of the Constitution, respect of the holder of the right that is deprived of possession, since it seriously harms the content of the right of property collected in Article 33 of the Constitution. In this band, the council makes some rather interesting reflections respecting some concrete points of Decree 17/2019 that can affect effective judicial protection, that they are not minors, and I think that they 'lshaurien to study well' have said that they would do so, so I think they should study it – that they are not minors, but in which I am not going to enter now. This is the technical part, the legal part of the decree that today brings us to validation. And you can tell us – in fact, in a way you have said – that with the situation we have in Catalonia today, with the lack of housing, with the situation of vulnerability of so many families, we cannot be tactical or legal, we must seek solutions by direct means. But sometimes, counselor, the direct route is not the fastest. You're the government. You have to take into account the standard framework in which we move at the time of making new regulations, because if they don't, if they shoot for the direct, they are in the institutional demagogue, which is the worst that there can be – for the most lenient that the objective is, for the most part we share the objective that you want to achieve. What you do today – bringing us to validation of this decree – is a maximum irresponsibility. You know that this decree is unconstitutional, and not because we say it, but because the Council of Statutory Guarantees has said it; they have said it clearly. They know that this decree will be brought before the Constitutional Court and they know that this decree will be declared unconstitutional, and therefore will not have effect. Therefore, when we ask ourselves why they do it, why they bring it to validation – aware, as they are, that this decree does not have recourse to it – it is only possible that they do it for purely party tactics, because we have some choices to play. But that's a big mistake. You are giving expectations to some collectors in the sense that this decree will provide solutions to their personal situation. And also some aspects of the 17/2019, to say the least, that this decree will paralyze the landlord's lawsuit about an occupied habitation, forcing him to formalize a social logger contract. But when things don't work out, they end badly. And we saw how the Provincial Audience of Barcelona – and so did Girona – spoke against it. Therefore, frustration from those who are thought that this decree would help them. And at the same time, these types of measures taken – and in a way, let's say, an innovative little one..., because they approved this decree a few days after they approved the previous one – can generate sound and insecurity in an environment – real estate – which we know is very sensitive and which can end up with the opposite effect, which is that of access to housing. This, as we hear it, is not the way to do things. We need to take measures to promote access to housing in an urgent way, but above all we need to do it well. In this sense, what has been done and what is being done by the Government of Spain gives us the message that things can be done well. The Urban Lei, which included a series of measures, was amended: the extension of the terms of the contracts from three to five years– or to seven, if the owners are strong– and the possibility of automatic renewal for three years longer; the increase in the income from the same contract, limited by the IPC; the preparation costs of the contract to be assumed by the lessor, and the limitation of the bail to two_months of the contract. These measures were a clear improvement in the situation of many tenants in line with what the People's Party had approved. Are they enough, in view of the situation we have? No, obviously not. We have to keep working, but we have to keep doing good. And, in this sense, from the Ministry it has already been announced that before the summer it will bring to approval a proposal to limit the prices of the logger, to make it easier for communities or assemblies to determine areas of tension and to apply a control over these areas. It has also announced that measures will be taken to extend the suspension of mortgage payments on ordinary housing for vulnerable collectors. In short, measures that would be better in the housing market and that would be taken with the necessary legal certainty to produce real effects. So let's keep going. We're still working, and we're doing good. In order to facilitate access to habitat, it is necessary to intervene in the market in a direct way, to put order in the empty habitat and the occupied habitat. We've told them many times. We asked for them in a young man's room. We need to create an interdepartmental table to know what reality we have in the country and how we can act. How many habitats we keep empty, how many occupied. If we know how many habitats we have empty and occupied and what profile is that of the occupants, we can design a solid strategy to act there and, above all, not leave it in the hands of the joints, which are to be faced with alone. You, with empty housing and occupations, have looked, counsel, on the other side. And, on the other hand, one of the best ways to contain the prices of logger or to bring them down is to put habitat on the market. Affordable public housing. And for that reason, they're calling for resources to do so. We take advantage of the resources that can also come from the State. We also need to increase the housing of the private sector. Recover the habitat built in some degraded barrels that are not attractive to many people to live there. Call resources to rehabilitate these barrels. And we're not just talking about public space, we're talking about housing. If we do, we'll get the cities back, and we'll put more on the market for housing. Therefore, political will. Political will that is manifested in resources. And you didn't put it there. You haven't recovered the 2010 housing reversal, you've entered 316_million less in this premise, and you're going to inhabit half the middle of the other communities. And here you see the political will of a government. You, Counselor, were directly questioning us and telling us to help them bring more resources from the State Government. But look, every time you've had the chance to have more resources – it's either in the presupposition of 2019 or, precisely, a few days ago, with the spending rule – your party voted against it. Mirin, to the CEO of 2019, of valorization of the public policies of the Government, the housing policy is the most valued, together with the weather and the temporality. And it's not strange. They do not devote sufficient resources or deal with elections in an uncertain manner. They're not doing well. They don't do things right, and this decree isn't a good show. This government suspects, counselor, suspects in many areas. I also, unfortunately, in housing policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.124.0	Well, good morning. Many thanks, Members, Members, Councillors, Members of the Bureau. We are debating the modification of a decree that held its first defeat yesterday. Yesterday, the families of the Bloc Llavors, of Sants-Montjuïc, were denominated despite this decree, despite a press wheel that were made here by the Parliamentary Groups of Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, the CUP and Catalonia in Comú Pode. Everything that's been done so far hasn't been enough to put a stop to the denunciation of the families of the Block So. And we do want to take advantage of this decree's debate to ask the government, and you answer us when you can, which is what the government has done to prevent this denunciation, in the band of the press wheel. Yes, we would like to know, in detail: what has the government done? If they got to the court, if they went to the court, if they got to the court, if they got to the court, personally, who were the directives that the lawyer gave for such a thing..., we no longer have to put up indefinitely with the denunciation, but to put up with it until, from the Barcelona meeting, it is possible to start the sanctioning expeditions and it is possible to force Vuras to his wife, to negotiate this social logue. We would also like to know if the government has sat down with Vuras, if they have spoken to him, if they have gone to him to ask him what you are offering this social lawyer to whom he was bound by the decree. But we still have a little bit of reason, because in the end the decree, in some matters, the government may not believe so much. And we would also like to know why the only image that the families of the Bloc Lavors had of the action of the Government of the Government of Catalonia was once again the action of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And it was again an absolutely disproportionate action of the Squad Mosses. And we'd also like to not say again that this happens because the moves obey a court directive, because many times we've also discussed this issue, and you know, as we know, that the moves don't have to act the way they do, that they don't have to have the aggression they're having more than a year ago every time they intervene in a disclaimer and every time there's people hanging around with their bodies in this disclaimer. Because the pictures we saw yesterday, we don't know what the government thinks of the pictures we saw yesterday; how the moves gave fucking shots to the people who were holding a barana. We don't know what they're thinking about. So, it's like a little contradictory to get out of a decree as it got out fifteen days ago in a faristol in this very Parliament and then yesterday to see the scene we saw. And don't have any more information about what the government did these past 15 days. Maybe they should explain it to us, which is what they've done in these 15 days. The counselor may ask again, but we don't have information, we don't have it. We, as you know, will effectively support the amendment of this decree. Yes, we will. And not because it's a matter of acquiring illegality or acting people, just because we think it's better than the order. Although the Council of State Guarantees can say that – as it has also been said – it is not the first time that when the rights to private property or the rights to free competition with basic social rights conflict, so many times it ends up deciding more closely to the right to private property and to the right to free competition, as it passed us with the decrees of the VTC, as it exactly posed as the Ciutadans example. And we believe that, even so, they are decrees that must be defended and maintained. But it's more than that, that the People's Party takes him to the Constitutional and that they do what they did this morning to ask President Tora what would he do if he took his piss, so I don't know if President Tora has more than fifteen houses? Perhaps they could see it in their statement of benefits, because if it has no more than fifteen habitats, it would not apply this decree. It is so simple, because it only applies the measures that you plan to offer social logue in those cases of large estates and legal persons with more than fifteen dwellings. It's that simple. If you continue to use the demagogic and criminalization of the occupation to say that a person who has a piss and who enters it, give him a shot at the door and occupy him because of this decree, he will no longer be able to execute the denunciation, it is that she is lied. You're such a senzill, you're a liar. Except that this person has more than fifteen dwellings and then what that person can do is offer a social logger to those people who occupied him, six months before the application of the decree. Because it's not that it's from now on, it's another important thing the counselor also commented on. Therefore, to use the demagogic and criminalization of the occupation and to see that the occupations are all mafias that give shots to the doors and that occupy and that destroy it is precisely to give the scale to the amount of vulnerable families that the only one that they can occupy is to be able to have a right to a habitat, because no one occupies because it is easier to occupy than to pay a logger. That's not true: it's not true. And you should stop criminalizing the occupation in this sense, and if you don't, I'm talking to the families who are occupying and seeing the situation you're in. Families who had to stop paying a mortgage because they couldn't pay it, or because they got stuck sometimes in a_month's pay, which we didn't see as they were trying to call a lord, a big person, because a_me got stuck in the pay. This isn't a crime, it's not a mafia. It's not a time at the door. This was a denunciation and that person was paying and there was also a threat of denunciation. And they know it perfectly. It's people who haven't been able to pay and who stay home because they don't have a place to go. People who were paying for a couple of lloguers and who suddenly and suddenly ask them for an abusive push and force them to leave their homes. But when they force them to leave their homes, they don't even find a place that they can pay for and stay there, they still have to live there, because they can't go to another place to pay from six hundred to a thousand euros for a piss with three rooms where they can live the family, at least dignifiedly. It's for those people who are also thought of – we insist – not regularizing the occupation, it's not true; it's not regularizing the occupation. It is compulsory, it is the responsibility of the great ones to offer a social logger, that that people can continue to live by paying a social logger. This is what the decree does in the case of vulnerable families, and so it has been said, they must have a report of social services as vulnerable families. So it's not that anyone who wants to give a drink to the door and from here I'm already staying, because thanks to the decree no one can take me away. It's not true either, it's not true either. And when they say that, they're demagogic. They are demagogic and very little elaborate, more so. They will bring it to the Constitutional and we do not know what the Constitutional will do, but we have seen what attitudes the Constitutional has every time we return. There is a collision of rights and always ends up opting for the rights that defend private property and the free market, instead of the right to habitat. Why not? Maybe they surprise us and everything. Perhaps the Constitutional fails in favor of the right to housing, which is also a constitutional right. What it seems that when we made reforms of the LAU, as the People's Party did, that obviously damaged the right to housing, because it brought us to the cylinder to which we are, therefore, here, the Constitutional, had nothing to do. He didn't have anything to say, because violating the right to housing seems to be constitutional, even though it's a constitutional right, too. So, when there is this collusion of rights, we, politically, what can a political group do that is in favour of the most vulnerable? It's what we're doing with the validation of this decree, too. And that's what we're defending. And using the Constitution to curb social gains, so let's just go back there! There is the judicialization of politics and there is the judicialization of the poor. It's using courts to convict people to live in the poor and live with the vulnerability of housing. And that's what they want to fight this decree, and that's why we're giving it support. I will not be in the content of the decree that was approved and this, because we have already talked about it, but they do take responsibility for this chamber and for all the parties that are part of it to, really, do everything possible, everything that gives us political, legal and legal margins, to reinforce this. They also ask the Government of the Generalitat for more courage. The counselor, these days, has been talking about mediation, hasn't she? , the importance of mediation. The Barcelona City Council has an intervention service in cases of occupation that it serves precisely for this, to mediate, to accompany, to give answer. Is the General planning to make us look like one all over Catalonia? , because perhaps it would be an interesting measure to be able to deploy, for one band, this idea of mediation and, for another, the measures provided for by the decree; to try to talk with the background and say to them: "Don't deny; you have to offer a social loguer, and not leave it all, either, in the hands of justice. They have announced measures to reinforce the decree in front of this interpretation that has been made by justice, which we consider to be inadequate. We're not hanging. We'd love to know who these are. And if they really strengthen the decree and help protect vulnerable families, they'll find us, like they always do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Maria Sirvent, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.126.0	Well, so a discussion about what's status, what's constitutional, how we need to legislate to guarantee the right to housing. Maybe we should talk about the Angel, the Sants, the Cristina, the Poble Nou, the Silvia, the Gràcia, the Mari Carmen, the seventy-eight years, the Breda, the Julia, the Hospitallet, the Sofia and its daughters, the Raval, the Avía de noranta anni at the Hospitallet, the Avía a Hostafrancs, the Manuela, the Raval, the seventy-one years, or the Saioa and its daughters. And so we could go on. And if you've fixed it, I've only said women's names. I've only said women's names because 50 percent of single-parent families are at risk of denunciation. Then, today you come to explain to us what it is possible to legislate, what it is not possible to legislate, and more what it is constitutional or what it is statutory. It seems that what is constitutional today is that Vauras, is that Blackstone, is that Azora, therefore, speculating without limits to our barrels and doing away with the veins. That's constitutional. It is also constitutional, therefore, that the Supreme Court systematically fails in favor of bankers who every day make out their families from home. Here what happens is very simple to hear; here what is there is a war between the powerful, between the bankers, between the speculators and the veins. And all this legal system, all this statutory and constitutional system, serves precisely to ensure this system that always defends private property and possession before the right of ways to enjoy a dignified life. And that happens to us with a lot of other rights. It turns out that now the right to self-determination, the right to housing, or the right of women to enjoy a life worthy, can be a negotiating position in a negotiating table. So no. These rights cannot be a negotiating position; in any case, we must defend them. And do you know who the defenses are? So look, don't defend them in this chamber, don't defend the government, don't defend the assemblies; they defend the veins. They defend Mari Carmen and her veins; the defense of Silvia with her companions; they defend the plataforms; they defend the unions of lodgers, who each day lay the body before the denunciations. And what is this government doing? What does this government do before this splendour of denunciations that is seen every day in the barrel? So look – I don't know if there were going to be another day – my companions – Albert Botran and the Sànchez Nation – they did go to the denunciations of the Bloc Llavors. And there were thousands of "police vans, a deployment that was absolutely disproportionate, the Squad moss trying to get into the houses of the veins without court order. Were we, you, counselor? Where were you, counsel, who wanted to regulate the prices of the logger? See if, too, when we regulate the prices of the lodger, it will pass the same as with this law, that you, in the pre-election campaign, explain that they are political for the right to housing, but then they will not get these policies to be effective. We want to see them, too, before every denunciation, putting the body as the veins do, protecting the right to the habitation of truth. And talking about these backs and dealing with these backs. Because they asked for them, they asked for the veins of the Block, which is reunited with Vauras. Have you met with this background? Have you been asked for explanations about the unlimited speculation that is exerting in the barrel? Mirin, it was also unconstitutional to abort, in this country; military service was also compulsory; we also had to hold seven-hour working days, and the right to leave was also prohibited. And we conquered it in every barrel; we conquered it in every street, with disobedience and calibre. What we did was self-organize ourselves and look into the eyes of our veins and recognize ourselves in them to generate community networks, which are the only ones – the only ones – that guarantee rights today in this country. So while others were negotiating rights, so the veins were exercising them. And what it is to self-determine us, self-determine us in all aspects of our lives, and not to talk about competitions, if it is the State, if it is the autonomous community that has the competitions. There will be no competition here when it comes to standing before the rights of speculators, powerful and bankers. The rights are conquered by fighting in the street. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.128.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, if a week ago we had the opportunity to debate Decree 17/2019..., and we told the counsel that the decree was a disproposal and explained what all our arguments were to oppose that decree. And it was difficult, but it did, it got over it – it got over it –: it presents a new decree that goes to deepen still further the disproposal of the decree that it presented to us, I insist, a few weeks ago. Why basically what does this decree consist of? So basically it is to say that a habitation, even though it is illegally occupied and even though its owner intends to recover it by judicial means, will continue to have the condition of empty habitation, even though the practice is not, because it is effectively occupied. And I think we have an opinion from the Board of State Guarantees that is clear, round and that tells you not only that this decree is unconstitutional, in a very clear and very clear way, but also refers to some other aspects of Decree 17; concretely the obligation to have a social logue before the owner can apply to the court. And you also tell them in a very clear and clear way that this is unconstitutional for violating the right to effective judicial protection. And this opinion of the Board of State Guarantees is prior to the judicial decisions of the Barcelona hearing or the Girona hearing, which refuse to apply this requirement because they also see in a very clear and very clear form the unconstitutionality of this one. We do not understand, frankly, as a government with Convergence, as a Councillor of Convergence has been able to harden the decrees that have had to us, from housing, to validation in this Parliament. We don't understand, honestly. We can hear it for the part where they are: a government with Republican Left, conditions for Podemos and conditions for many other factors. We don't understand. And what I want to do is sincerely celebrate the position that we have felt on the part of the Socialist Party. He has no doubt of the unconstitutionality of this decree, he has no doubt of the unconstitutionality of Decree 17/2019; I just have to ask them what the Socialist Party government expects for these two decrees to the Constitutional Court to suspend their application immediately. Did they? It's passing the time. If the government doesn't do it, don't worry, we'll do it ourselves. But then you do not come here to say that these decrees are unconstitutional, if you, who have the responsibility of the government, do not act accordingly. Keep going. Allow me, I will not give names of people affected by the lack of habitat. I can't give them, because we don't have enough time, but I can give them a cup that you should know, that they don't know, because they're not political fans for these people. It is 135,000 units of cohabitation; go, where all our lives we have not told families, of the type that follow, but 135,000 families, and for so many 300,000 people who also have names and surnames, who are registered in the Register of protection housing applicants. But, in turn, all the government's legislative and enforcement effort is not intended to complement its ability to build housing and to make it easier for these 300,000 people to live with their names and surnames, but rather to try to solve the problems of certain occupations, which are generally the subject of these occupations to be poor, without asking who they are – and that is why it does not only affect the needs of these families, it affects the whole population, it affects all types of owners –; it also breaks floors to put them in place to relocate the income to vulnerable families, abusing the needs of these families. And you give them legal employment. The port, if you don't know it – I am convinced that it is – the map of occupations in Spain. The first three Spanish provinces with the most occupations: Barcelona, Girona and Tarragona. And that's thanks to your government's policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy José Rodríguez, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.130.0	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Counselor. In a normal country we would be debating a very small modification of a housing decree; a modification that in the background that generates more legal certainty, defines more clearly what is an occupation..., forgive, what is a piss, an empty habitat; that would favor interpretation on the part of the courts of this decree; that would also favor and clarify how to apply this decree. Of course... And, therefore, what we would do is a much simpler, narrower, more technical debate, and the groups would express our vote. In fact, it's a modification that asks us for social entities that fight for the right to housing; it's not a modification that we want to get because we're created. But no, at these, when we get to the second five basic rights, someone is always hiding in something age-old. The judiciary now tells us that the decree cannot apply exactly as the Parliament wants because I don't know what about the procedural issue, and here opposition groups, and especially Spanish obedience groups, tell us and are a refugee in this: another time in the Spanish Constitution. When there is a collision of rights between social rights and property rights, there is always an interpretation, in fact, of the Spanish Constitution. Because in the Spanish Constitution we can find Article 47, it says: "All Spaniards have the right to "enjoy" a decent and adequate habitat, and then add a queue that is that the administrations have the obligation to fight..., to regulate the use of the ground according to the general interest to prevent speculation. It must be that either the Catalans are no longer Spanish – which I appreciate starting to recognize – or that the social rights of the Constitution are always paper mullat – they are always paper mullat – the right to housing, the right to work... They are declared rights, they say; they are not fundamental rights. In fact, the problem is not so much the Constitution, because the Constitution does not cease to be a text, more or less better, made at the end of the 1970s by a good-willed people who wanted to emerge from a dictatorship in the margins they gave us. The problem is the constitutional doctrine, which later years has always been in favor of the powerful, always, and ahead of the right of ownership of speculators and great tenors to the right of citizens. Now perhaps we want to re-accumulate another copy of the Constitution when we start to make housing policies that overcome the political housing evils that we have all done. And here I don't want to attribute only to the government of the state political ills of habitating. The political ills of housing have caused us to bury all the stables in stone, I the first– I was a being of the young people who made an account" and then fell in half of the inverted jump in a habitation–, we all fell into this. But it's that, besides, the right of housing is not a..., we've misunderstood it too. In fact, we have for a long time encouraged habitation to be an object of speculative business from dalt to bass: "Invests in housing, that everything goes up afterwards, right? This, a generation we've been listening to for years. And maybe now that Parliament is starting to make some policies that overcome this, so no, another time the barrier of the Constitution. They tell us that the State will do better... well, I don't know, if it will do better. I only know what you've done in the last two years: Zapatero Housing Plan, 1,500_million euros, 2007; Plan appartement d'ara, 400_million euros. The councilman said: the Government of the State, with the help of the Mifo, is offensive to us. When we had before 100_million euros, now they give us 50, and more with much more restrictive criteria. All right, so yes, you generate the problem, up the problem to the autonomic administrations and then come to the autonomic parliaments where they don't rule and say, "Hey, you're doing it badly. Ostres, I don't know... I don't know, I just heard the truth. The one I just heard may be some hypocrisy; but let's leave it here. Because in the background we don't want to overcome the political ills of housing. We have unwelcome 200,000 VPO habitats throughout Catalonia, for decades. We do not want to overcome the policies of housing that they mean not to donate public money to the banks in form... without social return. We do not want to overcome the political ills of housing regulating the prices of the market. Now we have a promise from the Spanish minister, for the first time, but when we brought a decree here in Parliament to try to regulate it, you put the opposition on hold. Therefore, I do not know if I have just taken 'in earnest promises girls, declaratives, when we do not yet have any proposal. In fact, Spain is not the best-doing country, no; it is the worst-doing country, or the worst-doing country, in housing policies. When we start working here, they listen another time in the Spanish Constitution. And do you know what's going on with this? That many Catalans, and every time more, we feel alienated from this Spanish Constitution, because you are corrupt, you are using it as you listen, you are using it to deny rights, you are using it to oppress national minority identities, you are using it to deny us social rights, national rights and collective rights. And it doesn't surprise that all this listening in the end makes us all more independent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mr Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.132.0	Thank you, President. You'll advise, counselor, deputies, deputies, citizens who follow this debate here today, that we're going to validate or validate, huh? – I don't know the term, let's say, I need to know what it must be – a decree that a little more than forty-four hours ago was ignored for the judiciary and that did not have its existence present, and that the owners of the Bloc Llavors, of the Vauras fons, therefore, have not offered the option of social logger to the occupants of the habitats, as was obligatory according to the compliment of this decree, and thus avoid what has been a painful dislocation. The government, I understand that it has been mediating, as it has been said, in this situation, both in relation to the judiciary and to the same Vauras foundations, which have closed to defend, let us say, that they consider their legitimate rights and ignoring what are the requirements that this decree, therefore, imposed. Precisely situations like viscudes, so these hours on the Lleida street are what they intend to avoid this decree. That is why we expressed in the House last week our group – I myself – that this was a courageous decree, which clearly places the political will to deal with the issue, and it stands at the side of the most vulnerable; that you see very clearly, let us say, in the interventions that have been made, which are at the side of the most vulnerable and which are at the side of the most powerful, right? In fact, the issue of housing, at these times, what is... I also had occasion to manifest in the past Ple, in which it was approved the validation, therefore, of this decree, without the modification and contribution of this, which is really the only tip of the iceberg of a social conflict that has real structural dimensions and that interacts with many areas in the management. We are more inverse..., in order to face a powerful housing policy, which gives effective and efficient responses to the problem that we have, we are an exceptional reversal for the construction of public and protected housing; an urban management that guarantees social inclusion; an increase in social aid, more than we have, and therefore here the commitment of the State; an increase in the income of the minimum wage; to legislate the top of which is the price of logging; a legislation that protects and prioritizes the right to housing and to make it compatible with the right to property, and to promote swift management. For this reason, the problem of housing requires concert between administrations, departments, civil society and political organizations, and put all available tools to do so. A new law and a new national plan are certainly needed, but the emergence forces us to act urgently, and this decree intervenes in this context of crisis, and also of emergence. The denunciations are produced on a daily basis; the prices are not fresh; the logger has been inaccessible for the returns of the popular classes and workers, especially the young people. For this reason, this decree is not only necessary, but it is better that I have the maximum strength and support of all the sectors involved. For this reason, we are celebrating the dialogue that has been anticipated with the approval of this decree and the relevant negotiation, which probably has spread a little over time, as it is working on the content of this decree since May, then, of the past year. In this sense we would like to thank the participation of representatives of the PAH of Barcelona and of the Trade Union of Llogators, which is just to correspond with the recognition of their commitment, since this decree would not have been possible without, in good part, its contribution. But yes, certainly, this decree is legally controversial, precisely because it is politically valid and bet to protect the most vulnerable and demand the most powerful – the funds to be returned, the funds to be reversed with speculative purpose, the great tenors of habitations – to cool off speculative practices, always less likely, but which must be criminal when it is at the expense of the weakest and the most vulnerable. In this sense, this decree forces to place on the market an offer of social logger come from the empty habitats and thus increase its offer to people and families of accredited vulnerability. It is probably one of the most important elements of the decree, in contemplating that occupation without a legitimate title does not prevent it from being considered empty a habitation, with which it is allowed the application of the compulsory social logger..., and is also given in these cases, regulating the way of reversing the floors of social logger to floors considered today illegally occupied. So, today, we leave the objective of effective intervention against residential exclusion and the strengthening of mechanisms to prevent denomination well closed and structured with this decree. We can't afford situations such as the displacement of the Bloc Llavors, previously mentioned, here in Barcelona two days ago. It is worth saying – it is to say – that the content of this decree that we validate here today in Parliament gives a tool to the courts to avoid it and we hope it will make it worth it. It's already painful for socially vulnerable people. With this decree we normalize the relationship with the private sector, aware that in this sector there is a share that comes from the globalization of the economy and the low cost of the price of the money, that cannot hold the same recognition as the conventional private sector, from the estavia of the labor yields. With regard to publicly-funded and large-scale bail-outs that have taken place with real estate portfolios of these entities and investment funds, which shelter their capital in the real estate sector only with the aim of obtaining maximum speculative profitability, at the cost of a social demand for the right to decent housing for the most vulnerable. This is a good decree, to go in and differentiate this reality and to consider that the great owners and the funders and the financial entities deserve a different deal. In this way, this decree faces an emergency situation, promotes the reduction of denouncements, increases the number of social housing units with the offer of empty housing units in the private sector and, at the same time, contributes to the moderation of the prices of the housing unit, which more closely matches the offer to demand. This is to say that we need the Government of Spain to use its skills to put the topalls to the increase in the price of the housing of lloger. I believe that it has been achieved that today we have a regulatory tool to serve a shared objective for most of this chamber, it seems to me, that the right to housing of vulnerable families is in the midst of the interests of large investment funds and funded entities. Generality and Parliament, with the cooperation of the assemblies and the social agents, we can respond with this decree before the citizenry, which we set up to respond to this challenge. It is now up to the Government of Spain and the Congress of Deputies also to set aside the legislative and presuppositional instruments at their disposal to take on this urgent social challenge. We hope that this decree will be respected by the Constitutional Court, and to see who is going to carry it [[remorse of the voice]] ... to bring him to the Constitutional Court. To see who is going to bring him to the Constitutional Court, which will mean that he is clearly located out of what are the most vulnerable and the most needy. This decree is a useful tool for the most affluent, most needy sectors of our society. And who does not defend is placed in the other band, in the band of the most powerful, who are speculating with such a basic need and such a fundamental right, recognized to our Constitution, as is the right to housing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.133.0	We called for a vote, once the debate was over. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.134.0	For allusions of the Lord Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.135.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.136.0	Thank you. Mr Morral, if the Socialist Party Government does not do so in coherence with the speech we heard here today, we will bring it to the Constitutional Court, we will do so. And it won't be because we're not on the side of vulnerable people: it's because we're on the side of people, of the 135,000 families that are registered in the protection housing solicitors' register and to whom this government gives them the skeleton to try to save illegal occupations and give them a natural card. That's why we're taking it to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Antoni Morral and Berenguer ask to speak.]] Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.138.0	Member, I had no doubt that you would bring him to the Constitutional Court. We know clearly, you, where you are located on the ground, let us say, to defend the rights of the most vulnerable and the rights of the most powerful: you are clearly located in defense of the rights of the most powerful. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.139.0	Well, we called for a vote. As you well know, according to Rule 158(3), it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The Decree Law 1/2020_was validated by 77 votes in favour, 57 against and no abstentions. Once the decree has been validated, I'm told to ask the chamber if any parliamentary group wants to process this decree as a bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? Thus, Decree 1/2020 is validated. [[Greetings.]] [[Presupposition projects of the Parliament of Catalonia and the Syndic of Greuges by 2020]] [[230-00007/12 and 230-00008/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the Parliament of Catalonia's Budget Project for 2020. According to the Expanded Bureau, this item on the agenda will be co-substantiated with the fourth item on the agenda, which is the report to the Greuges Syndicate's Project for 2020. In the presentation the first vice president, Mr Josep Costa. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.140.0	Thank you, President. I take the word, in this case, as a member of the Bureau and as a representative of that, to present the assumption for the year 2020. I do it, basically, based on three premises, this defense of the premise: I think it's a premise of consensus, it's a presumption of continuity and it's a presumption of containment. It is a presupposition of consensus because there is no government or opposition at the Bureau of Parliament, and this in the current time may seem a little surprising, but indeed the tasks of the Bureau's government, of the Parliament's government, do not differentiate between government and opposition, between majorities and minorities, but it is always intended to resolve by consensus. Therefore, this assumption is the result of this Parliament's governing system on the basis of consensus. Unfortunately, this is the second attempt to approve the premise. I think that on this occasion we have more success at the time of seeking this consensus, that it is not unanimous, but a large majority of this chamber; a large majority as, in fact, has always approved the premise of Parliament. It also continued, because last year this chamber approved its premise with the variables and with the parties that, say, complimented what is the functioning structure of this Parliament in this legislature, the great parties that had agreed and approved the principles of the legislature, and therefore in this premise by 2020 are practically in very similar magnitudes. We are talking that the basic increases in the assumption are essentially those that we are obliged by you in terms of personnel. We can also say that it is a presumption of continuity in the measure that it is essentially, basically, the same assumption that came to this plenary a_me ago and that then it could not be approved, but that with a minimum touch, with a minimum change now it has generated consensus, and that, therefore, we can approve. And he said, finally, that it is a presumption that I also maintained a certain degree of restraint, because it is still in a much lower number of figures than this Parliament had had a few gods or twelve years ago; we are still in a very lower total amount of presumption than the previous decade. So it's an austere assumption. And that, by the way, also in the matter of the salaries of Members much more austere than ever before they give us lessons. Finally, we also point out that in terms of staff – of civil servants, of the workers of this house – we are in front of a premise that also consolidates the recovery of rights and the recovery of working conditions of the civil servants and workers of this Parliament, which, like all civil servants and public workers, had suffered in the time of the detail of this minority of their rights and, so to speak, deterioration of their working conditions. So also for the second year – and I don't want to congratulate – there is an agreement of the workers..., of the Parliament with its workers to continue to recover working conditions that had been lost and reversed these details, these austerity measures that we had to adopt a few years ago. Therefore, as I said, it is a premise of consensus, continuity and contention, and therefore, I will ask for the support of this plenary. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.141.0	If there are no interventions by parliamentary groups... [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]] Yeah? So we'll open a two-minute turn for the parliamentary groups that so desire. Mrs. Marta Ribas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.142.0	Yes; to explain the sentiment of our vote, that once more we announce that we will vote in favour of the syndic's assumption, that it is also voting at this point, but we will vote against the parliamentary assumptions, because we do not believe that priority at these times continues to push the self that we understand the deputies of the chamber. We said it so clearly a year ago and we said it so clearly a month ago. We do not think that is the priority of the country that is fighting under the deputies and deputies, because we have a worthy son for everyone, we have a worthy son for the exercise of institutional policy, but it is not that this is not guaranteed with the ego that we have today the deputies and deputies themselves. It's already sunk, right now. There was the option, during this last month, to approve a different premise, a different proposal that maintained a freeze..., that made a freeze of the members of this chamber, but only got the support of Esquerra Republicana and Catalonia in Comú Pode. That's what's there. Each place puts its political priorities where it puts them and ours are not pushing the sound of the deputies at this time. That's why we're voting no. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Lady Sirvent, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.144.0	Yes, President, to briefly explain the meaning of our position. We, during all the legislatures, have abstained from respecting Parliament's presupposition as well as that of the bodies of the Union of Accounts and the Syndicate of Greuges. Why did we do it? So why these assumptions set a few more than a thousand euros, in many cases, gross annual for certain high and certain direct charges. In this sense, we want to make it clear that the middle of the Catalans' soul and the Catalans do not come up or even stand alone at EUR-twenty-five thousand and, therefore, we understand that these assumptions should be adjusted to this social reality and should not stand before or between the marble pairs of this chamber. Precisely because of this, we will maintain our position in accordance with the Presupposition of the Union of Accounts and the Syndicate of Greuges and abstain from these Presuppositions. But, in relation to Parliament's assumptions, we would vote against it, because, moreover, these subs have not only been rationalized, they have not rationalized the subs they have, which are absolutely deorbited according to our point of view, but, moreover, they want to increase the subs of the Members. They already know that we are following a strict code and that, therefore, our subs are 2.5 times the minimum interprofessional wage and we understand that this chamber should also make a rationalization of these subs, which are absolutely deorbited.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.145.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Marta Moreta Rovira asks to speak.]] Congresswoman Moreta also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.146.0	Thank you, President. Just to donate explanation of vote on the Greuges Syndic's Presuppost Project. We will abstain from the Greuges Syndic's Project of Presupposition and do so for the establishment of the Greuges Syndic; we will not do so for the attitudes and forms of the syndic, of Mr Ribó, who has not exercised his role with impartiality nor with objectivity nor with independence nor with institutional rigour. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.147.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Crimson... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.148.0	Yes, to also give an explanation of vote on our negative vote on the syndic's budgets. For us the syndic Ribó has his office expired a long time ago. It is to be explained in this Parliament for its travels to see the finals of the Champions with money allegedly coming from the three-per-cent plot and therefore in no way as long as Mr Ribó is at the head of the syndic's office we can support the budget of that office which, on the other hand, well exercised, should be the guarantee of the rights of Catalans in the face of interference and misuse of the institutions and public bodies against citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.149.0	All right. We called for a vote. We will vote first on the proposal for assumptions of the Parliament of Catalonia for 2020 and then vote on the Project for assumptions of the Syndic de Greuges, also for the year 2020. [[Long break.]] Let's get to the vote. We shall vote in the first place, as we have said, on the assumptions of the Catalonian Parliament for 2020. The vote begins. The assumptions of the Catalonian Parliament for 2020 have been approved by 79 votes in favour, 12 against and 40 abstentions. And we are voting now on the Project of Presupposition for the Syndic of Greuges for 2020. The vote begins. The assumptions for the Greuges Synod for this year 2020 have been approved by 70 votes in favour, 40 against and 21 abstentions. [[Question to the Government on the policies of women]] [[300-00240/12]] Let us now move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on women's policies, which was put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. In order to expose it, the honourable Member Ms Beatriz Silva has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.150.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. We have the impression that feminism changes over the decades, but it is not. Barriers to achieving real equality in the various areas of women's lives remain the same. New challenges are added because the world changes, but the bottom battle remains. It was said a few days ago Vivian Gornick, who at the age of eighty_y_four has lived as a first person as an activist the second wave of feminism, but also the « me too. What they and their companions claimed in the 1970s, but also the textile workers in New York with their 1908 strike, was no different from what we continue to worry about today: equal pay, reasonable working days, conciliation and co-responsibility. Millions of women all over the world will be on the streets this Sunday. March 8th is a day when we see that, although we are in the twenty-first century, discrimination in the world of work and the burden of caring for and raising children continues to fall on us, which makes us poorer and more vulnerable. As the motto of March 8 two years ago, we women allow the world to move, but we are not paid for it. In the last ten years the wage gap in Catalonia has been between 23 and 24 per cent, with such a small rate of reduction that, if it is maintained, it will take 350 years to eradicate it. Women are better educated, but they suffer more unemployment and job insecurity. 74_percent of part-time contracts in Catalonia are for women, and this is because they are not offered another option and also because cuts in day care and dependency have resulted in them being the ones who have had to take care. In fact, 97_percent of people who recognize that they work part-time in Catalonia for this reason are women. Women also make up the bulk of people who charge less than a thousand euros a month in Catalonia; they are seven_of_each_ten. In Catalonia, job insecurity has a woman's face and low wages have a woman's face. And that's because most work in the worst-paid sectors; 84_per_cent are waitresses, dependents, administrators or domestic workers. If the general wage gap is 23_per_cent, in the worst-paid occupations – which are mostly women's – it rises to between 30 and 40_per_cent. In fact, 88_percent of the labour force in the domestic sector are women; many of them, immigrants who work without social security contributions and for wages that, according to a UGT study, in many cases do not exceed 343_euro. We don't know how many there are. Last November the social security system of domestic workers in Catalonia had counted a little over sixty_ thousand; however, it could be about 200,000, if we pay attention to the ILO, because the majority remain in the submerged economy. I would like to ask you today, Counsellor, what is being done for these women, because what I find is that we are doing very little. Despite the fact that labour inspection in Catalonia has almost full competence, it is clear from the latest reports that no action has been taken concerning female domestic workers throughout the period covered; it is not even clear that the social courts have been asked once for prior permission to enter a home in the case of female domestic workers. How is this explained? We are talking about women who are subjected to extreme vulnerability, who are subjected to harassment and abuse and who have very little room to ask for help if there are no mechanisms for preventing and reporting. I have also tried to find out how many work accidents of domestic workers have been reported in Catalonia during the years 2018 and 2019 differentiated by sex and severity and it has been impossible for me to know. Could you tell me, Counselor, how many are there? And do we know how many of these work accidents have been investigated? As you already know, non-professional carers of dependent persons now have the opportunity to sign a special agreement with social security to cover retirement and disability. This right – which had disappeared in 2012 with a reform of the People's Party – was recovered by the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez in charge of state financing through a decree law of March 2019. Last November only five thousand non-professional caregivers had signed this agreement in Catalonia while in the Basque Country there were 8,300. How is this difference possible in dealing with a much smaller community than Catalonia? Could you tell me what your Government intends to do to inform caregivers that they have this right? It is also strange that if it is women who do most of the most precarious jobs, both from the memory of the labour inspection and from the monitoring of compliance with the motion that my parliamentary group presented a year ago, it is found that the conversion of temporary employment contracts to indefinite proceeds of fraud proceedings..., favored men much more than women: a 57_per_cent compared to a 42_per_cent. I'd like you to explain these figures to me, counselor, and what you're doing to reverse them. On the occasion of March 8, 2019, this Parliament adopted a motion tabled by my parliamentary group urging the Government to launch within three months the National Pact for the effective fight against pay inequality and the feminization of poverty, which contains the plan of government of this legislature. The motion included the creation of specific programmes for groups of women who are more severely affected by precariousness and poverty. It's been a year and we still don't know anything about this pact. When will it come true? I would like to remind you that this is a measure that is in the plan submitted by your own Government and not a measure imposed by the opposition. Also approved in March last year that in six months the biennial plan had to be ready to encourage stable and quality occupation for women, with its corresponding gender and age impact study, as provided for in article 32 of the Law on Effective Equality of Men and Women. We don't know anything about this plan. Has anything progressed this year? The truth is that the X-ray of the inequality between men and women in the world of work in Catalonia is very negative. Councilwoman Artadi announced in this Chamber a year ago that work was under way on the report on the impact of Law 17/2015, effective equality, as established by law itself. I would like to know when this report will be ready, because it has already been a year, and when this law will be deployed, because the budgets submitted by your Government do not include any specific items for this. I would very much appreciate it, in your turn, Counsellor, if you would try to answer any of these questions, because many of them I have written to you so it is not a novelty for you. I would also like you to take a closer look at what is being done to combat macho violence, which is another issue that you will be calling for again this Sunday. At a press conference, her predecessor, Consteller Artadi, stated, on February 25, 2019, that her government would allocate €37_million in 2019 to combat macho violence. But at the plenary session held on 13 November last you stated, to a question put by me, that 32_million_euros would be allocated, of which 19.5_millions corresponded to own resources and 12.7 to resources transferred for the deployment of the State Pact against Gender Violence. But in the committee on 25 January you said that by 2020 the resources would be 30_million, of which 17.5_million corresponded to own resources and the rest to those of the state pact, which are the only ones that do not vary every time I ask about this issue. My question is very specific: do we know how much it is intended to combat macho violence in Catalonia? In 2019 were the 37_million_euros announced by Constellera Artadi or the 32_million_euros announced by you? And how is it possible that less money will be spent in the 2020 budgets on combating gender-based violence than what you and Constable Artadi announced for 2019? I would also like to remind you that, on the occasion of the general policy debate in 2018, this Parliament approved a 35_per_cent increase in the specific heading to combat macho violence, and the figures do not show that this is happening. As the chairman of my parliamentary group, Miquel Iceta, recalled this morning, at this time we have a network of attention that reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of sexist violence; nine_of_each_ten remain out of any kind of attention; there are only eight specialized intervention services to cover the whole territory. This means that there are only fifty and nine professionals to recover the victims from all over Catalonia. In April 2019, his adviser assured that two new specialized intervention services would be opened throughout 2019. I would like to know whether these services are in operation or are part of the eight new services announced in the 2020 budgets. And I would also like to know how they will be financed, whether they will come out of their own resources or be financed from resources transferred by the central government to deploy the State Pact against Gender Violence, because what I find, by their written replies, is that all new actions will come out of the resources of the State Pact and not [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] own resources. I have a few questions left out, but I will continue to do so later. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.151.0	All right. Thank you, Congresswoman. To respond to the intervention, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.152.0	Thank you, President. Before entering into concrete contents of the inquiry, I would like to point out that we are in the week of the Vuit de Març, the International Day of the Dona, and the Vuit de Març precisely allows us to manifest the determination, sensibility, recognition and struggle of women, which, as it cannot otherwise be, has a translation into the determination, sensibility, recognition and struggle of the policies of women of government every day of the year. In fact, the parliamentary activity of this plenary session also makes it manifest. We started the day at the control session with interrogations..., or with questionings like this that at these times we are substantial, or debates like those that are located this late on two purposes of law, with aspects that relate to male violence. Therefore, Mrs Silva, I would like to express my gratitude to you for this debate on women's policies precisely this week, while acknowledging also that with Mrs Silva we have the opportunity to work on these policies throughout the year and not just on the mark of this week in which we claim the International Day of Donations. In fact, today we were going to present the 2020 data of the Observers of Igualtat de Genère, and simply what you say..., you are right, or still, the wage bracket exists: a cliche of 23_per_cent, and that, therefore, as it cannot otherwise be, has direct consequences also with this face of the poor, that the poor have a woman's face, right? And, therefore, all these facts that we presented yesterday, so precisely they come to say that there is still much work to be done in fighting for the equality of women and men. In fact, let me also tell him, therefore, that for what he does to these labor issues that he concretely carried out in a determined collection and in work accidents, so, as you know, this is not the competence of the Department of Presidency, this is the competence of the Department of Work. Here we have Councilman El Homrani, so I'm sure that when I ask him all these data... so I'll get them there, as you asked me in this inquiry. But let me, therefore, that at these times I cannot give him the data, because I am not in the mood, understand that this is not the direct competence of the Department of the Presidency. Well, what I can tell you is that you from the Presidency Department are angular in the politics of women for what you do to the government. And from the Català de los Dones Institute, and also from its premise and concrete actions – which I will no longer speak forward – I also want to emphasize that gender equality policies are not only reflected in the assumptions of the Català de los Dones Institute or in my Department of the Presidency, but are done in the context of all government departments. And, as you know, because we have had a chance to talk about it both to the committee of the Parliament in which we are going to compare a few days ago, as in other areas, and to the same president of the Catalan Institute of Donations, a novelty of these assumptions of the Generality, of these assumptions 2020, is that for the first time they incorporate the perspective of gender. And what does that mean? So that means that all the presupposed programs will be analyzed to give compliment to the Strategic Governance Gender Equality Platform. In this we are compromised and in this we are determined. And it is precisely around this determination and this reality and this compromise that the policies of women that the government wants to apply are absolutely cross-cutting and affect the totality of the government departments. And that's why, too, in this new phase that we have started since the Catalan Institute of Donations the priority is the coordination of all the policies that we do from the government, because our goal is not the number of initiatives, but all the initiatives that we send from the government respond to the goal of achieving a real impact to transform those realities that we don't like. You explained a few, and therefore I say to him: "To transform these realities that we do not like, we have these assumptions, we have this tool, but above all we have compromise and determination. But that's why, before anything else, we need to move forward in planning and move forward in coordinating all government policies, and that's what we need to do from the Catalan Institute of Donations. And, as you know, and because we haven't been able to talk on more than one occasion, so this momentum in coordination, which we also see and ask for, is the highest priority of the Catalan Institute of Donations. He was also talking to us about male violence, this chakra that still affects our society in a striking way. And I can tell you that, for example, in the case of the coordination of fighting policies against male violence, we want to give government a new focus on the approach to sexual violence, implementing a new model to deepen and align all those initiatives that follow from different administrations to ensure that all interventions follow common guidelines, that all interventions contribute to the integral approach to male violence and that all interventions enjoy a standardized quality. In short, that all the interventions work in coordination to obtain the recovery of the women, also of the adolescents and the children, who have suffered sexual rapes. In fact, in relation to the struggle against male violence, and in two concrete points, allow me to speak to you about what the victim care network is – you also make reference to it – and also allow me to explain it – because it is not now directly, but we have not spoken on other occasions – that I speak to you about forensic evaluation units, which have also been, therefore, the subject of this Parliament. In fact, in Catalonia, the year 2009, so far before the organic law of the State, the unit of integral forensic value in the City of Justice was put on the march as pilot proof, to serve six acts of violence on the woman, named "Vido", from Barcelona and the Hospital of Llobregat. This pilot test allowed us to design the progressive deployment to the joint service of the violin courts on the wife of Catalonia, in addition to the Tortosa court, which does not have, in concrete terms, a court specialising in themes of male violence. Therefore, let's say that, in addition to the jutjats of Barcelona and the Hospitallet, Girona, Lleida, Tarragona and Tortosa are already in operation. Therefore, these units, at hours of this day, are already arriving in a large majority of the population of Catalonia. And we can say, at these moments, that from the beginning of this deployment, and that, as we have said, it will arrive at the conjunct of these acts of violence on the woman, hours ago we reach a majority of the Catalan population. And what are we going to do with this? So we'll get half the waiting time on these teams' work to get evidence that the courts use to solve every case. And we will also reduce the victim's number of interviews – which at these times are just a half five interviews – to two, and therefore also, in this sense, protect the victim of male violence. With this new approach, in addition, in order to reduce the waiting time for expert evidence, the judicial process, as I said, is less traumatic and the solution to the conflict can arrive more quickly. We understand that this is also a key factor for the emotional recovery of victims and the impact on their children and their daughters, as well as policies to fight the fight against male violence. And also protective measures, such as, for example, extension orders. In fact – more than once, too, we have not spoken in this Parliament – the facts show us the data, and it is that Catalonia is denied a very important number of orders of departure. That's what we've been able to talk about many times, too. And as you know, and I explained myself in my appearance at the committee, he commissioned a study respecting the Antigona research group, the Autonomous University. So tell him that this study will be presented tomorrow, March 5th, on a specific day; we will do it together with the Department of Justice. And while waiting for the conclusions that we may have, what I can tell you is that we have seen that the given point to a cause-effect relationship in the fact that there is or does not exist such units of forensic value in the acceptance or denial of the removal orders. And for what he does to the victim care network, so, in this sense, we see that, apart from the eight SIEs and the others to be opened, we also have SIADs. Remember that at SIAD we have a hundred_two women's offices, and, therefore, in this sense we can also extend this look, right? With the SIAs we have and the hundred SIADs means that we have a presence in all the territories in those women's gathering services, women's policies, right? Therefore, in this sense we have guaranteed this distribution of land. As I said, strengthening SIADs within the territory is also a compromise of this government. And how did we do that? So increasing the program contract by 64_per_cent, from 3_million to 5_million. And in this sense, therefore, this government's commitment so that in this exercise, this program contract is better. And then, then, we can also continue to talk about other policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.153.0	To make the reply you have the word, again, the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.154.0	Thank you, Counselor. With regard to the issue of the fight against macho violence, I would like to insist on knowing how much money Catalonia is spending on its own resources to fight this scourge: the 37_millions that Constellera Artadi announced, the 32_millions that you announced or the 30_millions that are now included in the budgets? Because what I find is that all the new actions in relation to the fight against macho violence that have been announced throughout this legislature are being financed from the resources of the State Pact against Gender Violence. And I give you some examples. The comprehensive forensic assessment units, to which you referred in your intervention, have been financed with the resources of the pact; also the new specialized care services to recover victims of male violence, which would be deployed in 2019 and which I do not know if they are part of these eight new services that announce the budgets, because I have not been answered either; also, the I international congress for the approach to male violence that took place in October; the new model for addressing sexual violence; the protocol against sexual violence in leisure settings, which were presented by Councillor Artadi and Councillor Buch at a press conference and to which Councillor Buch mentioned this morning. The list is long, but I can't find a single new performance that doesn't come out of these finalist resources. I believe that you and I agree that the fight against macho violence is a very difficult challenge and needs the effort of all administrations, and that is what we are asking from our parliamentary group here. That is why I want to insist on this, and also where will funding come from for the new eight specialized care services that announce budgets: from the resources of the state pact or from own resources? I would like to ask you something that was left out of my first intervention, and that is: when will the Catalan pact against macho violence become a reality and why the 2020 budgets do not include a heading to make it a reality? In October 2018 this Parliament approved that the Catalan pact had to be implemented before six months, that is, in April 2019, and the parliamentary groups remain unconvoked. Making a pact a reality means creating a great political-social consensus, political groups should have been called upon to participate, but time passes and this does not happen. And it's also a matter of providing the budget. The State Pact against Gender Violence is not just a list of measures agreed upon by all political parties present at the Congress of Deputies. It involves transfers to the autonomous communities for 100_million_de_euro, 20_million_de_euro for municipalities, plus other specific items for 80_million_de_euro. In total, 200_million_de_euros that are enabling very important measures like many of those that you and I have mentioned here today. When will we have a Catalan pact and why do the 2020 budgets not even have a specific budget for this? You have referred to the deployment of comprehensive forensic assessment units – something we celebrate because they should have been functioning last September – but I want to ask you why the courts of violence against women in Catalonia are the only ones without specialized forensics. It is a demand that the judges have sent me and I want to know what the criterion is to deprive these judges of this indispensable figure. There is also an important issue and it is trafficking and trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation. I would like to know the number of women who have been identified as victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation in Catalonia over the past year. What help and support are being given to reintegrate into the world of work and be able to emerge from one of the most extreme forms of violence suffered by women in Catalonia? Is anything being done to advance the plan to combat trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation, which has been pending for years? Is the specific working group of the National Commission for Coordinated Intervention against Macho Violence functioning? , because the previous president of the ICD confirmed to me, in February 2019, that the working group on the trafficking of girls and women for the purpose of sexual exploitation had been created, but then it had been closed, it would be launched, but I note, in the last minutes of the committee meeting, that this group still does not exist. Before I finish, I would like to insist on some of the questions I asked you earlier, but also on what we are doing to deploy our laws on the eradication of male and female violence and on effective equality between men and women, and why no specific items have been allocated to this in the 2020 budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the counter-replication is now, again, the councillor's return. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.156.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Silva, we really have a lot of fears and we have little time to approach them. I will try to answer as much as possible, so, and in any case, you know that I, as President of the Catalan Institute of Women, am at your disposal to give you all of those clarifications to all of the data or information that you seek from us or what you want to talk about. Allow me to begin, therefore, by speaking of the National Pact against Masclist Violence. And I'm starting with a topic that may be recurring and that when I got to the council I proposed to push with a double goal. The objective of moving forward so as not to accumulate any further delays – this was one of the objectives – but also with the objective that the parliamentary groups have an active participation that, in my opinion, must have, and that as structured at that time, is not allowed. As you know, during the first quarter of 2019 and in the framework of the National Commission for Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence in which the Administration of the Generality, local authorities and specialized entities participate, it created the working group for the impulse of the National Pact against Masclist Violence. Since the March 26th, July 2nd, November 12th and November 22nd, four work meetings have been held on the Group's March 2nd and January 22nd, in which all the members of this work group have been summoned and a proposal for services and resources to be deployed to compliment the existing standard mark has been worked on. And now where are we? You were asking me. So look, at these moments we are working on a proposal from the working group in a background document for the acquiescence of the objective to be worked on in other areas of consensus. In fact, I would like to detail the terms of the next quarter, which are: that at the end of March there will be approval of the basic document of the working group; that the month of April there is presentation and work of the basic document with the parliamentary groups, because, as you know and previously commented, the participation of you is one of the threads that I proposed to enter the council; and finally at the end of May, a session of the working group to share and close the new version of the basic document with the included contributions. Therefore, the government is working on this pact and is not within a range, but it is moving forward and taking this momentum for the pact, with this double objective that it had previously commented on. And I'm still on the presuppositional theme, too. You ask us how much money... Miri, 30_million is what I said in my appearance at the committee. But again, if I may, the term 'expansius' is used, because the generality's 2020 assumptions are expansius, and so are the themes of women's policies. And let me, therefore, make reference to these expanded assumptions and above all to what it makes reference to the Catalan Institute of Donations. But look, I think that at this point we're gonna have to make a change of bone. I'm proposing to make a change to the Xip. When we do the assumptions, when we design the policies that we can do, what do we have to take into account? So what we have to take into account is the total resources we have, come from where we come from. And with that, what do I mean? So what I want to say to you is that when we plan our policies, in fact, they are all funded with our resources, those coming from the state pact, too. Because these moneys, these moneys are part of the resources we have. Because our problem is not whether resources come from one way or another. Our problem, do you know what it is? So our resources are insufficient. And our resources are insufficient as a consequence of the problem that we have of a structural funding deficit in our country, and therefore a structural funding deficit that affects our citizens, and therefore a situation that seriously compromises all those public policies, among them, the policies of women. When we have these 16,000, 12,000, 14,000 euros of fiscal deficit, I am sure that we can tackle all areas of competition and respond to all the realities that we still have in our country. Therefore, allow me, therefore, that I have already finished – thirty_seconds –..., which I have said: there is an increase of 64_per_cent of SIAD resources, which will also make it important for us to have more presence in the territory with all those policies of support and intervention in the themes of women; we will arrive at the seven SIE of deployment this year; we will strengthen the coordination of our policies as an important element to face the challenges that we have as a society, and we will also work on more sectoral themes, which I do not have time to explain now. Allow me to finish with the sentence, so let's start this March 8th campaign: we want the same right, because at these times we sure as hell don't have the same right, the women, the men. Let's do it together. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.157.0	Suspend the Ple up to a four-quarter late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.158.0	Good afternoon. Vagina taking the escons. Let's resume the session, on the fifth point of the order of the day... [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Proposal for a law on the reduction of food miscarriage]] [[202-00001/12]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to go to the sitting... the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Families on the proposed law on the reduction of food maltreatment. I, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, have the word in the first place the deputy Raúl Moreno, who in mad appointed as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.159.0	Thank you, President. Welcome, deputies, deputies, counsel and people who accompany us today in this guest gallery. I want to make a rest – I hope I don't leave any – of all those entities and people who accompany us: the representatives of the Banc d'Aliments de Catalunya, of the Banc de Ressources, of Caritas, of Rezero, the Espigoladors, Union of Pages, Young Farmers and Ramaders de Catalunya, Federation of Cooperatives Agrories de Catalunya, Mercabarna, Too Good To Go, Nutrition without Borders, people of the Council of Employers Distributors of Food of Catalonia, of Ecoc – the Spanish Association of Commercial Codification ; the Cristina Romero, promoter of Change.org of the initiative to prevent food from being supplied to school children; of the platform We take advantage of the food, and we do not leave it in any way, but we can solve it at any time. In any case, thank your presence in this Parliament. I am addressing you as rapporteur of the Bill's Ponència del Proyecto de l'Lei for the prevention of food loss and malnutrition; a law that has as its objective the establishment of prevention actions to reduce food loss and malnutrition and promotion actions to increase the profit and valorization of food across the food chain. It has been a lengthy process of appearances, debates, transactions and work by all parliamentary groups. In the first place, therefore, I believe that I should like to thank many of the people who have made it possible today that we are here to proceed to their debate and vote. In the first place, the effort, the consistency and the willingness to agree that we have demonstrated all parliamentary groups, from the first moment forward. A sincere thanks to the Members and Members of the House: Carmen de Rivera, of Ciutadans ; the Deputy of Junts for Catalonia Josep Maria Forné ; the Deputy of Esquerra Republicana Montserrat Fornells, and of the group of communes, the Concha Abelán. And everyone has shown the willingness to overcome differences to find the agreement. And, as the rapporteur, I thank them for the ease with which I have been allowed to work. Also that of the deputy of the Candidature of the Popular Unit Vidal Aragonese and that of the Popular Party, Hope García, because, even though they have not participated in the ponies, they have brought in the form of statements or comments their considerations, some of which, therefore, have been accepted or transactions in the text that we bring today to vote. To highlight and aggravate the work of the late Mercè Arderiu ; of the language councilwoman, Marta Payà, and of the technical teams of our respective parliamentary groups, for the amount of work that gives the fact of seeking the maximum agreement in the proposals. The law we voted on today was born as a proposal for the profit law of the surplus food. This was the original title, which has also been objected to. An initiative promoted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, recorded on March 2016, debated and admitted to the process with the unitary gathering of parliamentary groups of the previous legislature and which began its work on the October of 2016. During the year 2017 a total of thirty-seven comparisons were made, fourteen of which were written; comparisons of the entities that today accompany us in this debate and many others, that today could not be, but would like to mention: the platform Take advantage of the Foods, the Alicia Foundation, the Consumers' Network, Creu Roja Catalunya, the Consumers' Organisation and Users, Pimec, Mercabarna, Mercadona, Pages Union, Young Farmers and Ramaders of Catalonia, Federation of Cooperatives Agriculture, Gremi d'Hotels de Barcelona, Catalan Foundation for the Prevention of Residuals and Consum Responsible, Young Farmers' Agency and Ramaders de Catalunya, Federation of Cooperatives Agriculturals, Gremi d'Hotels de Barcelona, Catalan University for the Prevention of Consumer Affairs, Public Health Agency of Catalonia, Various Interests in Medicine, Hospitals in Barcelona, University in Barcelona, University in Barcelona, University in Barcelona, University in Barcelona, University in Barcelona, University in Barcelona, University in Rome, University in Catalonia, University in Rome, University in Rome, University, University. And I also want to thank the girl contributions for the same Government of Catalonia, the Agriculture Council, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food and the Council of Entities created also with the aim of improving the final wording of this law; in particular, the Alba Balcells and the Glòria Cugat. After the appearances, the parliamentary groups made their own statements, they recorded them, but there was no time to initiate the debate on them for the end of the previous parliamentary term. At the February of 2018, the Socialist Parliamentary Group re-registers this law and the debate to the totality is also producing, also, the month of February of the year 2019, now it will be a year, with the objective of giving continuity to the work done to the previous legislature. The debate then agreed, in March 2019, to re-invite the thirteen attendees and re-submit the papers by parliamentary groups. This is a law that so far has always counted on the unanimous gathering of the groups of this chamber. And with this spirit, as the rapporteur, I drew up a draft report on the question which has served as a guide, a discussion and a subsequent consensus; a draft which included all those points which generated agreement on the part of the parliamentary groups, including those which, for various reasons, could not participate in the work of the question. Maximum consensus, therefore, to focus on that which unites us, and enough time to debate that which we disagreed with. There has been a lot of debate in this debate, of which I would like to highlight some of them: the very definition of the term 'evil food'; the possibility of selling or not products from donation with prior authorization of the donor; the involvement and role of the first sector in this law; the regulation of speech, and the compatibility of the law with other existing sectoral laws and with the same European legislation. It does not touch me, like the rapporteur, to enter into the content of these debates. In any case, the speakers who intervene all the time will be able to explain them. But he did want to make clear some of these points, which are the ones that have been the subject of debate on the question; a question that filled his work last February 2, 2020, with the approval of the question report and with the subsequent vote to the Commission for Work, Social Affairs and Families. Therefore, five years of parliamentary proceedings, which arrive today at the end of a long road, from which can become the first law at the joint meeting of Spain that regulates food losses and malaise and the first European law that involves all agents of the food chain. To thank the involvement of all, social workers, government and parliamentary groups, to understand that this is a necessary law for Catalonia, necessary for Catalans and Catalans, and for the will of consensus that existed on the part of all and all during the parliamentary process. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the first place, the parliamentary groups which have reserved defence items in the House will continue to speak for a maximum of fifteen minutes. In the first place, has the word the deputy Carmen de Rivera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.161.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, distinguished Members of Parliament... A greeting also to all the entities that accompany us today, to which we all thank for their important contributions during the period of appearances. Today, finally, the vote comes to this plenary on the Law on the Prevention of Food Waste and the amendments that remain alive to the article; a law that can mean a step in the need to take action and seek solutions against the waste of food, prevent and raise awareness, which from Citizens we understand are the keys to improving the current situation. This law, as Raúl Moreno has said, is innovative in Spain, since in no autonomous community has it been legislated in this respect, so there is no regulation or applicable state framework. From here, I would particularly like to thank Mr Raúl Moreno, the rapporteur, for the open spirit of consensus and negotiation, and all the fellow Members who have been part of this paper, for their work and for the discussions on pooling. I also thank all the technicians who have been advising us throughout this legislative process. As I said, today we are voting on the Law on the Reduction of Food Waste, and this is a necessary law and we hope that it will serve as an instrument for laying the foundations for an increasingly pressing problem, such as food waste, as a global problem that affects more developed societies and has global consequences, such as CO2 emissions, large costs for the economy and a social aspect, which is also important, to take into account. The processing of this law has been intense and urgent. From Ciutadans we believe that this speed that we have imposed ourselves, all, to process this proposal of law has sometimes played against the wealth of opinions of different sectors and voices understood in the matter, which should have been taken into account when processing it. We believe that in the final outcome certain business sectors, catering sectors, and also some business sectors, are missing in order to have their vision and to be able to make a law that is more feasible and adapted to real needs. Secondly, we believe that this law, although with very good purpose, suffers from certain legislative Zapatistaism; that is, we fear that it is a law that in practice will have little real effectiveness. For this reason, we will have to see what will definitively establish regulatory development, and that it is mandatory to develop it in a short space of time, and that it will undoubtedly take a lot of work to develop the principles and basic lines that this law has marked. The regulatory development that takes place will be key to determining whether this law has real effectiveness or whether it is left on wet paper. Before going on to detail the amendments that our parliamentary group is keeping alive, we want to abstract a moment from the specific object of the bill and to make a clarification: in Ciutadans we are very concerned about the primary sector of Catalonia and we are concerned that this law, instead of helping, will put more obstacles on farmers and livestock farmers. As is well known, the primary sector is in a situation of crisis, almost chronic, of prices at source. And we see with concern the discreet role that the Department of Agriculture is playing in this problem. We will be waiting for steps to be taken to tackle this growing and perpetual problem. From here on, we want to recognize most farmers and farmers who, even at very low prices, collaborate in many social initiatives in relation to food. This law must protect farmers and farmers, in order not to worsen their situation, avoiding increasing production costs and avoiding situations of unfair commercial competition. And with regard to the amendments that Ciutadans is keeping alive for the vote in this plenary, we would like to highlight the following. One, on Amendment 28, we believe that it is necessary to establish clearly, within the scope of this law, that products which do not comply with marketing rules are excluded. We understand that this is important, because we must not put people's health at risk. And, with this amendment, we understand that we would ensure this issue better. With regard to Amendment 49, that in supermarkets and other shopping centres products with a preferential consumption date are exposed for sale to the public in separate spaces fifteen days before their expiry. And, although it is somehow incorporated in other articles of the law, we believe that our amendment would improve the wording. On Amendment 98, we maintain it because we believe it is necessary to put no further impediments and burdens on the primary sector. As I said, we must help the primary sector, not burden it with more difficulties or obstacles. We believe that the role and obligations of this sector have not been sufficiently clear. On Amendment 161, we believe that this law should fulfil two fundamental roles: on the one hand, promoting food use by reducing the amount of food that is wasted, and, on the other hand, enhancing social initiative projects in different groups of disadvantaged people, but always, and as it cannot be otherwise, fulfilling all the labour guarantees of those who are involved in these distribution activities. We believe that it would be important for the law to explicitly recognize this need for all labour guarantees. As far as the sanctioning regime is concerned, I have to say that we have doubts about its legal application. Article 14 classifies sanctions as mild, severe and very serious, but in its breakdown only some conducts are classified as mild..., some punishable conducts, as mild and serious. Nor will we vote in favour and abstain in Article 9.3, since we believe that it gives no security to entities, even if there is a lack of civil and criminal responsibility. Civil and criminal liability is held or not held, regardless of whether it is placed in law. Finally, in connection with our concern about farmers and livestock farmers, the fourth additional provision is pending the regulation of the spigueo or espigolament. Perhaps it would have been time to go deeper into this figure. In this regard, we ask the Department of Agriculture, with the necessary consensus of the primary sector, not to delay the adoption of the regulation of the law. In short, ladies and gentlemen, although we believe that this law is a new and important step towards reducing food waste, we believe that, in the same law, technical and economic means are lacking to promote the application of the hierarchy of resource management, for example. Or that the hierarchy of food consumption be established by giving priority to the prevention of the loss and waste of food; the reuse of safe and nutritious food suitable for human consumption, which could otherwise be wasted; and the recovery of food resources for animal feed when it is safe to do so, and the diversion of inevitable food losses and waste from disposal to, in order of priority, recycling and other forms of recovery, and in particular through its use in biomaterials, aerobic digestion and energy recovery. We will be awaiting the regulatory development of the Government, which we hope will do so soon, and how it manages to develop the guiding principles of this proposition for material actions. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.162.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Raúl Moreno, Socialist Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.163.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you will advise... to reiterate my greeting to those entities that are with us today in this proposed law to prevent the loss of food. Catalonia takes a step forward with the approval of this law in the fight against food miscarriage. It will be the first autonomous community to regulate this problem for you. It will also be the first law in Europe to act on all agents in the food chain. We want to regulate something that directly affects the way we consume the conjunction of the population. We produce and buy more than we consume. The struggle against malaise will be long, because it involves a change in the consumption habits of the citizenry. And we won't do that just by passing a law. Now, we need you to regulate and accompany this change in consumption habits. And with this spirit, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units began a long legislative journey that began in March 2016 and that today you see the light thanks to the initial support of all political forces in Parliament. Other European countries have already given some passes in this very sense. French law, which incorporates sanctioning rules, such as Catalan law, focuses on the obligation to facilitate products with a date of consumption preferred to third-sector entities and food banks. The Italian law, for its band, promotes the reduction of the malaise from various social initiatives and without sanctioning rules. A study commission was carried out a few years ago by the Spanish Prime Minister José María Cazalis, a member of the GNP, which set out some of the measures necessary to reduce maladministration, and we find in the current legislation some measures in this line, but more focused on the area of waste management. Spain also has the strategy« More food, less waste, but today, ladies and gentlemen, we want to give Catalonia..., we want to go further with this law. Because not to do so means not to act before the economic, social and environmental consequences caused by the fact of producing food to then fill them and which are suitable for human consumption, for animal, industrial or other purposes. Five points that we consider to be the key to this legislative text. All food businesses, schools, hospitals and residential services will have to have a plan to reduce food mismanagement. This law will allow us to maintain a system of control and annual follow-up of food losses and malaise in Catalonia, setting priorities for the fate of unhealthy foods before they become residual. Restaurants and hotels should make it easier for consumers to take food that has not been consumed in biodegradable, reusable and cost-effective packages. The imperfect products, the sale of bulk products and the products with the date of consumption prefer to start to be more present in a regular way to our reference shops. It will regularize the presentation and strengthen social entities with food distribution projects. Beyond these five prominent elements of the law, I retreat other aspects that I also think are of relevance. The law we are bringing to debate today and the vote must allow us to hold data. Currently the data we have on the malaise are the ones that bring various studies, foundations, some provided for the same Government, for the Government of Spain and for the European Union. But there are no systematizations that allow us to measure the losses and the maladventure in Catalonia on an ongoing basis. We know, according to the FAO, that one-third of all food produced in the world is lost or miscarried. We know that every wicked catalan thirty-five kilos of food every year. We know that malarassment is produced by consumers, by families. But we need to fix the data collection if we want to make good policies against abuse and loss, if we want to put the focus where the problem really exists, and if we want to know if what we're doing is working. Therefore, one of the most important points of this law is the obligation on the part of all the agents of the food chain, carried by micro-entrepreneurs, to have a plan to reduce food mismanagement, which can be propitious plans or can be collectible plans under the criteria that will mark the Council of the Food of Catalonia. This obligation will also be for schools, hospitals and residential services, so that they incorporate plans to reduce food abuse into their management. Previously, Congresswoman Carmen de Rivera commented on the priorities. This law incorporates an article of priorities that, moreover, marks the European Union. The law sets out the order of priorities to be followed by an awkward product, an order of priorities established for the European Union and which will force food chain agents, first of all, to avoid maladministration and, if it is not possible, to target it for human feed, animal feed, industrial uses, compost, biogas or other types of energy recovery before its destruction. Therefore, this has indeed been incorporated into this law. The time and evolution of this law will tell us whether to give out these foods we have been able to coordinate a public or private initiative able to collaborate in the generation of an economic and business fabric around the valorization of foods. The law aims to encourage the sale of products with a preferential or near-expiration date, as well as the promotion of the sale of bulk, seasonal, proximity, ecological or imperfect or defective products, which often arise from commercial channels. It will be distributors, supermarkets and large surfaces that will sort out which is the best way to do it. Some already do and others will have to do it from the approval of this law. But we understand that they are the ones who have to look for the most suitable formula depending on the type of consumer and the characteristics of the product. I have said this to the beginning and I am now remarrying it: small actions also help us reduce food malaise and are necessary to involve the city council in this necessary change of consumption habits. The catering and inn sector will have to make it easier for its customers to take home non-consumer food, in biodegradable, recyclable and cost-free packaging. The law also allows the consumer to carry his envelope, and forces the restaurateurs to make clear the possibility of getting food home preferably to cards or in any case visibly to the place. As you know, this is a practical force that is extended to the present, but we want to take a step further and consider it as a more useful service that will allow us to reduce malaise, raise awareness of the citizenry and end up with the shame that for many citizens and citizens we are supposed to ask to take home to what has not been consumed. Of course, a warning: this is not the law of tapers. To want to reduce this law only to this measure does not represent the hope of the law, but welcome is this measure, if this supposes to capture the interest of the city council. Public administration is also a key player in this law. From their approval, administrations will have to incorporate public contracts and service management arrangements related to the management of food clauses to prevent food loss and malaise. For another band, it will have to facilitate the creation of spaces and systems for the distribution of food surpluses, which would make the task of third-sector entities or food banks easier to get donations to many remote populations of urban clusters or large cities. Also the creation of a database of data that backs businesses, entities and other organisations related to the profit of food surpluses, in order to promote the transfer of these foods to their transformation or valorization. Educational measures are in place to prevent food losses and malnutrition in the food programs at Catalan schools, and the Government will need to develop a strategic plan to prevent food losses and malnutrition that will enclose actions, quantify the abuse and losses at different stages of the food chain, analyse the causes and indicators of assessment, a plan that will be assessed biennially and will have to be provided with sufficient economic resources. Social initiative entities and other non-profit organisations working in the distribution of food will have the obligation to maintain proper hygiene and conservation practices and handling of food and equipment. Recognising the right to food from donation and epigulation, it should be easier to keep a stock in food banks so that donations are constant throughout the year and not only in winter seasons or in punctual campaigns. Some encouraging measures are included in the law that are interesting, such as encouraging the adoption of agreements and agreements between companies, administrations and third-sector entities; promoting research and innovation in collaboration with universities and technological research institutes; encouraging that the preferred consumption dates are fixed in a responsible manner, or incorporating the prevention of losses and food mismanagement between the requirements of environmental distinctions and other equivalent instruments. The speech, finally, is also present in the law. It will be hot to regulate the activities of the pickers and pickers of Catalonia. The law draws some basic lines of a regulation that the law determines in a year of its approval and that it must allow to recognize and encourage the pocket of the pickers, to establish the necessary agreements with the producers, pages or companies with whom they collaborate, the conditions that must be fulfilled by the entities to carry out this activity and also the conditions on which the collection can be carried out, among others. From here my congratulations to the collection of spies who accompany us, for their tenacity and consistency throughout the process of this law, to congratulate them as well for the recognition that they are supposed to be present in this law. And finally, the sanctioning regime. If you remember, the law we introduced in 2016 did not bear the sanctioning rule. It has been the fruit of the debate and the discussions of various groups that we have considered appropriate to incorporate it. We didn't want this to be just a law of good will, but not a law that complicates the necessary collaboration between the food chain agents and the same Administration. In this sense, the sanctioning rule incorporated in the present law gives back to the amounts already approved in the laws supplementing this, such as the Law of Public Salvation, the Law of Residues, the Code of Consumption of Catalonia or the Law of Commerce, serve and enforce. What we're doing is incorporating our existing sanction word, they still understand that this law, like the others, will require a period of adaptation on the part of all folds and also on the part of the Strategic Loss Prevention Plan and the food malaise that the government must have prepared in a year. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has been possible since the agreement of political forces with different ambitions. It is further proof that we can come to good agreement on those issues that are of interest to the city council and that allow us to move towards a better world. We can be pioneers from Catalonia, if we go together and focus on where we come from. It is a law that is responsible, necessary, involved and enforceable in our current reality and within the existing legal framework, which respects other approved laws that influence this and also respects European legislation. It's a first law of many to come in a future. It's a first step towards reducing the losses of food miscarriage. For some people it may be insufficient; for others, at last, interventionist mass. That this law adapts to reality and that it is modified when we have the data to indicate whether we are going for the right path, but it is necessary to move forward, to lay the first stone. Catalonia has not been an alien community to food miscarriage. Hundreds of entities, entrepreneurs, carry out very positive practices across the whole territory. It is necessary to recognise the pockets of food banks, NGOs, as they distribute free food to families at risk of social exclusion. Recognise the task of the first sector, which is also involved, with this law, in reducing food miscarriage. From the distribution sector, which I understand is a sign of economic loss, and some of them have already put in place measures to reduce it. The different governments of Catalonia – the present and the former – are already carrying out actions to reduce food mismanagement, a task that we take advantage of and that has allowed us to take an important step in the approval of this law. Finally, I would like to thank my parliamentary group for the support and the task that has been in place since the year 2016 because this is coming to a good end. In particular, to the technical team of the parliamentary group – the Núria Pérez, the Raquel Rubio, the Nelia Martínez, the Marc Cruces and the Álvaro Rebollar -, to all the communication team and to all the rest of the team of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar. Also to all the entities that have appeared, to the Members and Members of the House of Commons and also to have a record for Paco Muñoz, who left us and who was one of the main activists against food mismanagement, who was present at the beginning of 2016, this parliamentary process. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish we could pull this law forward with a very good majority for Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. I now return to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and on his behalf Mr Vidal Aragonese will speak. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.165.0	Good afternoon, all of you. First of all, we would like to make a thank you so that we can retake this bill in this legislature. And let's go back because some of you, Members and Members, were already able to enjoy it – some might say that they would suffer – in the previous legislature. And also thank the deputies and deputies, and at the conjunction of the technical staff of this house, who have supported and promoted the pose. We as the subgroup have been delighted to be able to participate, but it is not possible – sometimes it does – but it is not possible on a daily basis that at the same time we are at two different points. And so, by coincidence with other commissions, it was impossible for us. This has not prevented us from presenting more than thirty-five items, which in the end have remained in thirty-two items, as in order to compensate for that non-presence that we did. When this is over, we'll have the transformation of the work that's been done into a law. And a law that will mean a concrete material reality. In this Parliament, unfortunately, two years later we have not had the results of this significance, which is what we would essentially have to do in this Parliament. But there is another question – which for us is presented as much or more interesting – derived from the processing of this law, which is that it poses us before a miracle of which the capitalist system will mean. More than 30_per_cent of the world's food is malbaraten. This should be an authentic scandal from a social point of view, from an ecological point of view, and, at the very least, set us up as an authentic crime. And for another band, because it also tells us how the capitalist system works, which produces beyond human needs. In fact, it produces more than the needs of the planet, not only humans and humans have a presence on this planet. And sometimes it doesn't even guarantee a proper feeding at the conjunction of humanity. Also, and in the same logic, the capitalist system is capable of lynching and shaming food if that means maintaining business benefits. Absolutely irrational, but that's how the capitalist system works. But we will try to delve into this, there is a part of the food malaise that is not addressed in this regulation, which is what refers to its production phase. We would certainly start a discussion in this House, if this is the competence of the Parliament of Catalonia, if it is the competence of the Spanish State, and there would be some Member who would tell us that we should not give him back because he has regulated the European Union through directives and regulations. But it's more over there. The capitalist system does not allow – or would not allow, in any case – that it is regulated in the sense of producing only what we need to feed ourselves and that this production is dedicated to ensuring the feeding of the conjunction of humanity. This does not allow capitalism, as is the case today. It is possible that there are now those who think: « These are the classic theories of the UPC, which are anti-capitalist, which are socialist... So look, up to a third of the fund of the operating programs that the European Union dedicates to organizations of fruit and vegetable producers is expressly dedicated – and we want to insist, expressly – to take the market away from what has already happened. And it is possible that there are producers and producers – especially small producers and producers – who say: "We need to regulate the price. This is also why it is not guaranteeing a just price for the small producer, for the small producer, and therefore, it is transformed into an absolutely irrational reality. On which it sees to be the material content of this law. We want to make a first positive recognizance of the law. We do not want to deny it, it is positive, it is an adventure, for what it means and why it goes to make up for the lack of regulatory regulation or, rather, of a single rule. We did have some aspects of the legislation and, therefore, an affectation of rights and guarantees. On concrete content. So we're going to have prevention actions to reduce the losses of food mismanagement and actions to boost the growth of food profit both to businesses as well as social entities and other organizations without work, to restoration, to the inn and to the public administration. Through five mechanisms? Generating obligations – we want to recognise this – to these entities, but also generating rights to consumers and consumers. And also – and we want to emphasize the importance, even though it does not complete, for its meaning – a rule of infringements and sanctions. Without that, we really didn't have a law; we had a declaration of principles in the form of law, but laws must serve not only to involve or assume obligations, but to have mechanisms to make them effective. And, if we have made this recognition in favor of what law means – an adventure – we also want to say, and it is our political analysis, which has shortcomings. And it's because it has shortcomings that we've wanted to maintain up to a total of thirty-two items. We didn't give ourselves time to explain either in the seven and a half minutes we had of time, the half time the rest of the groups, or in the two minutes that remain, the thirty-two-point conjunction, but we do want to make some reference to collective reflection. First of all, the definition of ‘lost and unhealthy food' does not include all stages of the food chain, does not include colitis to mass consumption and, therefore, for us, this meant a deficiency. Nor does the future regulation, in its sphere of affectation, include nutrients. It will not be a problem for waste collection and management companies either; and for us, this had an important and decisive role to play. And respect for hotel entities and the catering sector, we have moved the need to segregate the organic fraction and, for another band, to establish official grams. It is possible that there are those who think of this Parliament that the Administration has not imposed that there is a minimum in terms of the dishes, or a maximum, better said. For us, it seems to us that it is absolutely irrational because then it pays the society's conjunction through the health system and, therefore, that the gramatges can fix the Health Department. And also, through discussions, we felt that we should not only act on the effects, or in relation to the effects, but also on measures related to the cause. And in relation to the cause, it seemed to us that it is not a waste that we still have commercial clauses that generate surplus food and that, moreover, motivate the existence for economic interests of surplus food. And lastly – not least – it is also guaranteed that you can have right to a whole series of questions about the information that you can get, whether you're being bitten by food, or respect what they impose on you, which is where it induces you to over-consumption. And we wanted to end, with all due respect, accompanying the intervention of the citizens' spokesman, who was talking to us about « Zapateril law, or something similar. We, who know a little bit also the Spanish language, want to think that it did not refer to one of the meanings of "slipper, which is what is cooked before time; we think that this law did not cook before time, that it is a positive law and that it is referring to Mr. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Montserrat Fornells.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.167.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. First of all, I would like to greet and thank the people of the Government, the people of the different entities, collectivities and unions who today accompanied us to the Chamber, and that many of you have participated in the lengthy processing of this law and have appeared in public. And you've been working for a long time for the fight against food miscarriage. Thank you all very much. I would also like to thank all the companies and companies we have worked on this law, Hope, Vidal, Conchi, Carmen, Josep Maria and, in particular, the rapporteur deputy Raúl. Thank you all for the work and for the good disposition always to negotiate and reach agreements so that you can pull this law forward. Also, naturally, thank the manager's work, the illiterate and the linguist and, on the other hand, the technician of my parliamentary group Joan Masferrer. In Catalonia, according to data from the Catalan Agency of Residus, the malavailability of food at home, retail and catering is more than 260,000_tonnes per year, the equivalent of 7_percent of the food purchased and thirty-five kilos per person, with an economic impact of loss of 841_millions per year, which represents 100_dotze_euros per person and year. In short, according to the UN, between 25 and 30 per cent of the food produced ends up in rubble. There have been months of hard work, of many meetings and of many sessions of ponència in order to finally arrive here today at this plenary session with the wording that we will approve. It will, it has already been said, be a pioneer law in Europe, because, unlike the French and Italian laws, Catalan law prioritizes the prevention of losses and food mismanagement before the redistribution of surpluses. And it does so across the food chain, from primary production to the final consumer. It is with this focus that the concept of food loss is introduced for all foods that are lost during primary production. The fight against food loss and malnutrition must be an objective for the country, an objective in which it has been a long time since the whole agri-food sector and the administration have been working for many different lives, already with awareness, regulation, research and information. This law will help to meet the goals of sustainable development, zero fame, and responsible production and consumption, which proposed to reduce food mismanagement by 50_per_cent by 2030, and reduce food losses in the camp. It should be noted that this law imposes a set of obligations on all agents of the food chain; for example, food chain companies, social initiative entities and non-profit organisations that are engaged in the distribution of food will be obliged, among others, to have a plan to prevent losses and food abuse, as well as to measure and report annually on the levels of generation of food losses and food abuse. In addition to these obligations, the law will also impose specific obligations on businesses in the catering and hospitality sector. They've already commented. Among which we highlight, we want to highlight, that of facilitating to the consumer that it is possible to endur, without any additional cost, the foods that it has not consumed, and to inform of this possibility to the card or the menu, in a preferred place. And, in addition, use packaging for the transport of these unconsumed foods that are suitable for food use, reusable, compostable or easily recyclable, and admit that the consumer can also use his own food. It should also highlight the obligations imposed on the public administration and the rest of the public sector, such as the obligation to incorporate into public contracts and the obligation to manage food-related services those clauses that can prevent food loss and malnutrition, and also the obligation to create an information system to collect and analyse data resulting from the quantification of food loss and malnutrition. The government will also need to develop a strategic plan to prevent food loss and malnutrition, which will need to be updated with a maximum periodicity of five years. This law also includes a set of support and encouragement measures to prevent food loss and maltreatment, addressed both to the public administration and to food businesses, such as measures to promote research and innovation, as well as awareness of the problem of loss and maladministration or the promotion of good commercial practices across the food chain. Another important aspect of the law is the regulation of speech, such as a complementary and non-profit activity aimed at preventing food losses in primary production. Finally, I would also like to highlight the work carried out by the Interdepartmental Commission on Food Malbaratation; a committee that has been led by the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food and that has integrated the different departments of the Government of Catalonia with the work that they have done in coordination with the different social entities and with the agri-food sector in order to develop a position and some technical elements that have since been translated into the question itself. I would also like to remind you that the course of this procedure has been carried out in two phases: a first in the 11th parliamentary term, in the last parliamentary term, is about forty appearances that have taken place in the end and where the majority of the questions that have taken place in the last parliamentary term have already been incorporated into the initial bill that the Socialist Party in solo submitted to the beginning of this parliamentary term. From here I also want to make a record for Constable Serret, who was at the head of the department last year's legislature and who did a lot of good work on the subject of maltreatment, and who, because of 155, this law fell and the constable had to be exiled to exile. [[Greetings.]] For what he does to our group, we keep an item alive, the item 6. We believe that the definition of ‘eating malaise' should be recovered from those edible parts of foods which are to be food residues. We believe that it is very important that the definitions of ‘residue', ‘disbarment' and ‘lost' are aligned and do not overlap. To hear it, while the definition of ‘food residue' includes edible and inedible parts of food, malarbaratically includes only edible parts. For example, food miscarriage does not include the pinyol of the pressec, while food residue includes the pressec in its totality. Members and Members, today is a day to be proud, because we will approve a pioneering law, we will take a step forward to regulate this problem of food mismanagement; a law that will ask all of us, society as a whole, so that we can achieve all the goals we have as a country to address this aspect. Let's get down there and make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Deputy Josep Maria Forné. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.169.0	Thank you, President. Let's hope that Congresswoman Hope Garcia recovers well soon, and that nothing is left of it, this outburst. Thank you, President. Thanks, MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors; members of the ponència, MP Raúl Moreno, Conception..., Conchi, Montse Fornells, Carmen, Hope – that we hope you will recover –, Vidal – even though you can not participate, it is true, physically, but yes that in the distance and whenever we need you there, and so much thanks –; services, letters, letters, letters, language services, Mrs Mercè Arderiu, correspondents, guests... I am wide; the list, in fact, deputy Raúl Moreno has read it expressly, and I believe that all..., already indicates, therefore, that it is a topic that we are debating which implies and which involves the mobilization of a continuous resource, not so much food, society, not important. I would also like to thank, at this time, those people who, behind the kitchen, to the kitchen, who are not visible... so, the technicians. The company Montse Fornells mentioned the Joan Masferrer of the Republican Group. Certainly. For our group, Francesc López, Jordi Font. And also don't forget the Alba Balcells, which has been up and down without stopping and making everything work out fine. The interdepartmental commission. In fact, it is a law proposal that involves many departments: Territories, Enterprise, Agriculture, different areas, and then the work of all these aligned departments and working systematically to achieve a good result is also something that needs to be put in value and that needs to be highlighted. Many thanks to all of you for making this law possible. A law that many of his people have already said... I think he's described it very well, it's not worth it that I can't describe it anymore and basically repeat the same thing he said. Yes, but I would like to highlight some ideas that seem to us that the law poses a question. The first is... now with Congresswoman Geis, Gemma Geis, we say that our opinions, our peers, according to the generations, remind us that there is nothing left to eat and that everything is to be eaten. And that's an idea, isn't it? And then there was a second stage... First it was because maybe the needy made us say that. A second step came from saying: "Think of those who do not have; you already have, think of those who do not have. And so, with food you don't play, and it's serious; with food stuff you don't play. And now we move on to a third stage, which is the consecration of this consciousness, which, since the food is not played, is that with the food little joke, because with the food we are not only making ethical, moral and solidarity disorders, but we are making economic disorders and I can correct them. Miscarriage is irrationality that can correct it, and the law somehow puts it in this will to correct this irrationality. References have been made to the fact that there are 900_millions or 1,000_millions of people who win and, in change, one_third of food production wins. This is irrationality. In fact, this irrationality is what led back in 1966 to the founding of the first food bank in the United States; one concern to see how in the same society there were people who wanted and, in turn, others who ate. It's irrationality that this is producing. In fact, on the subject of food, what is on the table is a double contradiction, an ethical one and an economic one. Congressman Vidal Aragonese has raised some of the contradictions that exist in the economic issue, huh? : can the food be considered as a good? Or, better said, can food be regarded as a commodity or is it necessarily a good? It's actually a good thing, because it's what allows us to sustain the lives of humans, and, in change, our system turns it into a commodity. And the will, I understand that yours, would be to eliminate this consideration of merchandise and treat it just as well. This for some would mean a minimum of alignment of people with their needs..., decisions from a homelessness and without respect for freedom. Therefore, economic freedom makes it possible – I know – to turn it into a commodity... but it also allows, at times, that we can sort out what feeds us. But that doesn't mean there's no correction. In fact, this law introduces proofreaders into these contradictions of considering food as a commodity. Both in production and distribution there must be proofreaders. As a matter of fact, I'll do it. It is not only in production and distribution that there must be correction but also in consumption habits, which also, more tangentially, I think is introduced into the law, in this way, I say, to consider food as a mere source of pleasure and not in the most nutritious aspect, and to see 'ldes of this consideration. The situation of malaise is not merely an economic contradiction, but also a media-environmental contradiction, for which I suppose to lay down foods that are evil and that are then converted into a residue, with the problem that it means, media-environmental. In fact, we have been able to incorporate at a later date, for a negotiated agreement..., no, "transactioned no, jointly expressed, the consideration of the struggle against mischief as one of the objectives of sustainable development that must collect the law, and thus bring back the law. Another thing that would also stand out from the law, I have already said, passing over what has already been exposed and which is not worth repeating, is that it is a law that is not an assistantist, it is a law that does not consider the treatment of malaise as giving almoine to those who need it, but that raises it in a rigorous, rational way, and the treatment of the poor has to be planted in another way, in another way. We, as a group, maintain, with the Group of the Republic, a single theme, which is number 6, that of the definition of malarrangement, because we consider that our proposal would be better, that it would be more focused, more aligned with the definitions of ‘lost and ‘residue'. And we want to highlight this, since I introduce 'lost', as the primary sector doesn't have to feel properly, because that's where the waste is produced in food production, in agri-food, it's not a bad thing – no way the bad pay; I assure you that the pay is the least bad thing, huh? – and, in change, its loss is considered in another way. In summary, we can congratulate ourselves on this pioneer law, on this law that we are taking you to the vote today, and that we hope you will come forward with an absolute majority. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.170.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and to fix their position, they have the word for a maximum of five minutes the parliamentary groups; two and a half, the subgroups. I, in the first place, have the words of Mrs Concepción Abelán, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.171.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, councillors... and a greeting to the entities, collectives and unions that have come here today. We came to the end of the process of a law that has been long and extensively worked by the groups of this chamber, and the previous legislature. It is gratifying to be able to pass what has been for me the first law I have been able to work on, and also to do so since consensus building. We have had intense discussions on how to channel certain issues, but we have shown that when there is political will we can reach agreements, and here we have the results. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs of the law, the rapporteur rapporteur and the Government for their willingness to dialogue and to make it possible for Catalonia today to have a pioneering law for the reduction and prevention of food waste. I would like to recall that this law began with a very social perspective and focused on food donation, conditioned by the last decade of crisis. We saw how municipalities and social entities had to increase, with effort, their programs for the donation of food to thousands of families who suffered economic difficulties, the result of the abandonment of social protection, of ruthless and inhuman policies that before the destruction of employment were unable to respond to families. But, beyond the donation of food, the law had to meet other objectives..., which directly affect environmental reasons and promote a change in ways to consume. We were told by the persons appearing in the law, whose participation has been essential to give the necessary turn and make it a useful tool for the prevention and reduction of food waste. The law affects the entire food chain, from the primary sector, through food distributors, the catering sector, to the final consumer. The law wants to generalize actions that began to put into practice people who are aware of their environment and society, environmentalists, solidarity people, altruists, who have helped us to undertake and make us co-responsible for the urgent changes we need to deal with the climate crisis. It was important for us to be able to incorporate into the primary sector; it was also important to recognize the good practices represented by espigolament and participation in the transformation of food for social purposes. In the distribution in supermarkets, much was said about what to do with perishable foods and close to their preferred date of consumption. For here is the proposal for regulation with all its legal and food security guarantees, as endorsed by the competent government agencies. The restoration must also fight against that 12_percent of food that we discard and that is attributed to the sector. The obligation to serve customers the food they have not consumed is a step forward. And this cannot ignore the environmental perspective and the commitment to combat single-use plastics. Every day we do it better and add more sectors to their environmental commitment. And the great challenge for the prevention and reduction of waste is for consumers, that we feed every day and that we see the right to good food, healthy and balanced, in an activity often related to excess. From the data we have available, we are told that 58_per_cent of the food that is wasted is produced in households; that is, we buy more food than we need. And this is, to a large extent, the way in which food is made available to us. We need to encourage bulk purchases and eliminate family and packaged packages, which, in turn, are plastic and more plastic. We had an important debate on how this law would be effective in addressing collective plans, so that the food chain would meet its stated objectives. We understood that self-reliant, small businesses, cooperatives, had to be able to get the plans even if they had few resources. We agree that the Administration will provide guidance on collective plans, ensuring the principle of equity. Another of the issues that generated the most debate was the possibility of selling or reselling the donated product, which finally..., the existing legislation solved the debate, even if it was at the end. In short, here's the way it's been these months. Our group will vote in favour of this law, which has to contribute positively to reducing and preventing food waste, to the challenge of climate change and to a greater distribution of food, helping to ensure that a basic right such as that of healthy and healthy food is available to all. Congratulations to the presentation, and I reiterate my thanks to all: attendees, Government, deputies and deputies for the work done. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.173.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, and people who accompany us, I come in as a substitute to defend the position of our subgroup in relation to this proposal of law which from now on will become law. Food loss is one of the leading causes of global CO2 emissions, and actually studies tell us that if we pool the set of foods that are in one country, it would be the third country to emit CO2, right? , larger after the United States and the Xina. The law that came up today to vote, in its original text, had concepts that created confusion, a certain legal insecurity of the actors involved in the concepts of malaise, passing through the dates of preferential consumption, lapse, and some obligations an extreme, both for the hostelry, for NGOs, for associations, for pages, for branches, and a sanctioning regime to the full disproportionate. We appreciate the work of our fellow Members, of the rest of the parliamentary groups, of the electorates, who have made things easier for us, especially because, as the Subgroup of the CUP has said, we are a small group that do not have much availability to attend all the meetings, but in any case a special thank you that I was transferred to the Member who took part in the drafting of this proposal from the Law, to the Members of the Rapporteur, Raúl Moreno, and to the Deputy of Junts for Catalonia, Josep Maria Forné. The text above, up with a better, more balanced sanctioning regime, a clarification of civil liability, better tax subsidies to agents that help improve the enjoyment of food, clarification of speech and timing at one year because the government develops the regulation that will make its application effective. Spain is the country with the most food loss in the European Union: 8_million_of_tones, 167 double-axle trucks and full tow of profitable food. Without any doubt, this law seeks to help reduce it, insofar as it applies under the criteria of freedom, responsibility and compromise, which is the reason for which we will support it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.174.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall now proceed to vote on the opinion on the proposed law on the reduction of food mismanagement and the reserved items of the different parliamentary groups. We shall begin, first of all, with the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which has called for separate votes to be taken on item 81 and the remaining items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, let's get to the vote. Let's start with these items. Let's start with item number 81, correspondent to the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 38 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. We now vote on the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group Papers Nos. 28, 49, 87, 98 and 161. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 35 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on the reserved items of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. We're voting for Emen number 111. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 3 abstentions. And now we are voting on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Creed Constituent, which are items 74 and 103, in a first vote, and the rest of their items in a _second. We therefore vote on the 74 and 103 motions. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 7 votes in favour, 125 against and no abstentions. We are voting now on the CUP's set of reserved items - Constituent Cry, carried by these two that we have voted on. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 128 against and no abstentions. And now we are voting on the joint statement of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group for the Republic, corresponding to item 6. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 67 against and no abstentions. We now vote on the three items signed for all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, amending the third and fifth paragraph of the motion statement and adding to the paragraph of the motion statement. The vote begins. These three items have been approved unanimously, i.e. 132 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. And we are voting now, finally, on the text of the opinion. I am referring to the request for a separate vote from a parliamentary group, we vote first on the bloc with the articles of the 9th..., with the articles – forgive me – 9.3, 14 and 15 of the opinion, and then we will vote on the rest of the opinion. Therefore, we vote on this first bloc. The vote begins. This first part of the opinion was adopted by 97 votes in favour, against and 35 abstentions. We shall vote on the rest of the opinion. The vote begins. The proposal for a law to reduce food miscarriage was approved by 132 votes in favour, against and against. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you very much. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate male violence, for the establishment of units of full forensic value, for the fight against male violence (debate of totality)]] [[202-00053/12]] Let us now turn to the sixth point of the order of the day, which is the debate of totality on the proposed law amending Law 5/2008, of 24 April, the right of women to eradicate male violence, for the establishment of units of integral forensic value, for the fight against male violence. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask that if they have to abandon the hemicicle, they do so with as much silence as possible. Thank you. [[Pause.]] Before beginning the debate announced, I am sure that the Board of Spokesmen agreed that this debate of totality would be substantiated jointly with the debate of totality on the Proposition of Law Amendment Law 5/2008, of 24 April, of the right of women to eradicate male violence, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. So, we'll do the two debates together. And, in the first place, in order to present the first proposal of the law, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.175.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to greet and thank all the entities that accompany us this afternoon, and especially the entity El Latido de las Butterflies, for this great and necessary work that is being done to combat macho violence in one of the most important and fundamental areas of education. [[Greetings.]] As you say from your entity, every victim of macho violence is a butterfly to which their wings have been removed. So today, in memory of all of them, we look at these butterflies in our lapel to always have the ones present, so that we never forget that we must continue to fight to eradicate this scourge of our society. Well, we are at the door of International Women's Day, which is this Sunday, and on such an important date as it is on March 8, we want to reiterate our full commitment to ending inequalities between women and men in different fields – in social, economic, cultural, educational – and we have been demonstrating this day-to-day with our work. Because in Catalonia and the rest of Spain there are millions of women who are waiting for a response from political representatives and who want real and effective measures. This is, therefore, no more or less than measures to ensure that all women can develop us on equal terms, without requiring us to have any carnets other than to aspire to a better society. Members of Parliament, equality between women and men cannot be focused on changing words, what has to be changed are policies, and we must push for improvements that bring us closer to that real and effective equality between women and men. And today we also have, you too, the Members of the other groups, a valuable opportunity to make concrete measures for all those women who suffer the most terrible and cruel face of inequality, which is macho violence. Because we are, as I said, faced with one of the greatest scourges of our society, the greatest sign of this inequality that we speak of, which weighs like a slab, and a slab that also costs us lives. According to the latest data from the Ministry of Equality, only in what we have been doing this year in 2020, fourteen women have been murdered in Spain, three of them here in Catalonia. This past year, in our country, we have surpassed the terrible number of more than a thousand women murdered at the hands of their partners or ex-partners, since there were official records in 2003. And it is clear that this cannot go on like this. We all have to work so that there's not one more victim, not one more and not one less of us. With more resources, with more prevention, helping survivors recover. And on this issue we all have to go to one, there are no excuses, and we also have to focus on prevention. Look, Catalonia is the autonomous community with the lowest percentage in granting protection orders to victims of male violence. In fact, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, of the requests that arrived in 2018 only less than half were granted, 48_per_cent of these requests were answered. And this, obviously, is a problem. These data, moreover, make us be given a warning light, and today from my group, with this proposal, what we want is to turn it off. The associations of victims of sexist violence have been warning for many years now of the lack of forensic psychologists who can attend judges in courts specialized in gender violence, and in fact the Law against Gender Violence itself also highlighted this circumstance and called for the establishment of comprehensive forensic assessment units. However, Catalonia is the only autonomous community that does not have these units in place. So years and years of convergent governments, also socialists, some in coalition with Republican Left, and these units are still unstarted. And what is worse: some even today bring us here an amendment to the whole; that is, not only do they not do their work, but they also prevent others from doing ours. Look, this bill we're bringing here today consists of nothing more than implementing these forensic assessment units so that we can better protect the victims of male violence; these units are a fundamental and very valuable tool to fight against the social scourge of sexism. These are multidisciplinary teams. formed by psychologists, social workers and forensic doctors, who give a coordinated, specific and specialized response among the different professionals to evaluate the diagnosis of a possible case of male violence. And they do so through the preparation of reports that allow a diagnosis that goes beyond the simple search for the symptomatology of an aggression. These units are necessary, as they help judges to take the most appropriate measures in protection orders and thus help to better assess the situation of victims and provide an appropriate response and an effective response for each specific case. And they do it with psychiatric or medical, psychological, social reports... at all stages of investigation, prosecution, and execution. This facilitates the work of the parties and the judge in establishing these protective measures for women, as well as their children, to be adopted at all times. What this proposal for a law that we bring with us proposes is basically focused on a number of points that I will now explain. The first is to make an integral assessment of the effects of physical, psychological and sexual violence on women who are victims of sexist violence. Secondly, to assess the effects of exposure to violence, as well as the attacks suffered by the children and children of these victims by their dependent minors, sometimes, unfortunately, invisible victims of macho violence. Also the assessment of the incidence, danger and risk of recidivism of the aggressor, because unfortunately in many cases the aggressor is recidivist and yet the appropriate protective measures have not been taken. Also the assessment of civil proceedings affecting victims of gender-based violence, which are provided for in existing legislation. And finally, of course, the adoption of the protection measures which correspond to the above points. Ultimately, it is about providing more technical and information so that both judges and the Prosecutor's Office can take the best measures of protection and have quality information, individual information, beyond mere statements by the parties. Look, we are facing a useful and effective tool to prevent situations of violence, abuse and abuse, as well as to ensure the protection of the victim, and therefore a tool that can reduce the number of women killed. That is why we cannot allow this law to go forward today. I insist that Catalonia is the only autonomous community that does not have these units in place; that is, there is no effective implementation either in Tarragona, in Lleida, or in Girona... Here in Barcelona it simply exists in the courts, in the judicial parties of Barcelona, Hospitalet de Llobregat and Gavà. This situation is happening. [[Funnel veils]] ... – now let us comment, if you like, Mrs Capella, let me finish – this situation happens because there is not exactly this law that we have here, there is no proper regulation of these forensic units, nor the necessary means, and therefore, because the purpose for which these units were created cannot be made effective, which is no other, I insist, than to help the victims, which is no other than to help the judges and the Ministry of Public Prosecutions to give an appropriate response to each case. And that is happening despite the fact that the prosecution has already asked on numerous occasions for its creation and the need to strengthen the existing ones. And they know this reality very well, because it is they who suffer a significant workload, with the consequent delay, therefore, that this entails in the processing of the procedures. Look, today we have the opportunity to decide on these comprehensive forensic assessment units, which will finally see the light of these units. Because what is being decided today is whether or not we are promoting appropriate legislation for comprehensive forensic assessment units, so that we can combat male-based violence. So we ask the rest of the parliamentary groups to stand up to the blockade, so that they can be dealt with, and think about the good of women, and not the partisan interests. Because, look, in this Parliament we have had to hear with real shame that in Catalonia fewer protection orders are issued to victims because justice is 'Spanish and sexist' – this, in quotes – and that is why a Catalan state is needed. Look, no, no. What is needed is to stop blaming others for their own disabilities and get to work. And today they have a chance to do what [[applause]] – today they have the opportunity to do so. Let us compare with other autonomous communities. For example, in Rioja it is where 91_per_cent of the protection orders are granted, Mrs. Capella, twice the protection orders granted here in Catalonia. And you know what? That the judicial system is the same, the Spanish! What's going on is that you don't work. What's the difference between Rioja and Catalonia? The government; that here there is a separatist government that has other priorities, which are not these. So, therefore, I insist that they stop blaming the rest of Spain, that they assume their mistakes and, above all, that they amend them, that today they have the opportunity to do so. And it's not that Citizens say it; it's that the facts say it, the facts say it. See, in the Community of Madrid, for example, seventy-one psychosocial teams are available to analyse the risk of victims of male violence, with specialists who made up to 2,500 reports. If Catalonia also has to face this scourge, like other autonomous communities, do not deprive either the judges or the other legal operators of having these forensic assessment units that, I insist, can help prevent and better protect victims of male violence. And, therefore, we do not understand how you can put here today, Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, an amendment to the whole, which I insist is that we are the only autonomous community that has not developed these units; so please do it at once. And not only is it that we do not have them, no, no; that is to say, at what level you are prepared to degrade this Parliament, I insist, by making amendments to the whole of a law which seeks to protect victims of macho violence, when this Parliament should..., it is a pity that it does not do so, but it should be dedicated to defending the freedom and equality of all citizens. Look, we're asking you to rekindle, row with us in favor of all women. We have seen the results of these evaluation units in other autonomous communities; so, please, let us not deprive women who suffer from macho violence in Catalonia of such a valuable tool to protect them. It is essential that these cases, of each victim, of their children, of those who also witness this violence in the home be assessed one by one, because not doing so can make a difference. Look, as I was telling you, we're talking about units with specialized professionals, a psychologist, a social worker and a forensic doctor by court, who will attend to women at a time that's very key to getting them out of that hell that means sexist violence. I believe that in this matter we cannot allow the party referendums to deprive the victims of these teams to face such painful and complex situations at all levels. Let these professionals be responsible for assessing in each case the effects of violence that women may suffer. Look, I believe with all conviction that these units will help women and, above all, will help save lives. And I am convinced that no one out there will understand the amendments to the whole presented by Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana before a proposal that does what it does is to develop the Law on Gender Violence, which copies what already works, and also successfully, in other autonomous communities and which aims to protect the victims. So I ask from here these parties, Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya, to reconsider their position. Because, look, in order to be feminist, to fight for equality and to combat macho violence, in addition to words you also need facts. [[Greetings.]] As you know, it was a joint debate, as has already been explained at the beginning of my speech, and we would therefore now also like to assess this proposal which comes to us from the Catalonian Group in Comú Puem. The reform of the Catalan law on the right of women to eradicate sexist violence is also being discussed; it was also a law of consensus, but I believe that, of course, after twelve years, we already believe that it is time to update, to improve, to enrich and, above all, also to seek new answers to these new challenges that have emerged in recent years. We from Citizens have also worked in this line, we have presented two proposals of law to modify the. We therefore welcome all proposals that improve and strengthen the prevention of gender-based violence and the protection of victims as well. In this sense, and in relation to this proposal presented to us by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, although we consider that there are some aspects to be polished and there are some issues on which we do not agree in the approach, we obviously find it interesting to address, for example, violence on social networks, in the digital world, or also to extend training to professionals. That is why we have not tabled an amendment in its entirety, so that this proposal can continue its process. Because we do preach by example and we don't care who signs that initiative, if it can help solve problems. I wish everyone here today could say the same thing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.176.0	Next, she has the word, to present the second proposal of the law, Mrs Susanna Segovia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate male violence (debate of totality)]] [[202-00067/12]] When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.177.0	Thank you very much. Good afternoon to everyone. There is probably enough consensus in this chamber, perhaps even unanimous, that feminicide is the maximum expression of male rape; that they kill us to be women. They kill us, because under the brute tip of the murders we find all a patriarchal system that embraces less, insults, shots, hints, unequal opportunities, unequal roles, shame, humiliation, discredit... They kill us, because they still have a lot of fish, mass, heteropatrical values in the system, and that's what it allows. In Catalonia a 51,3_percent of women have suffered male violence, and this excludes commentaries, sexual gestures or exhibitionism, far from their lives. A 25.3_per_cent of the women, one_of_each_four, have suffered some particularly heavy aggression during their life cycle. It has already been said: only when we wear a year, three dead women in Catalonia, two women and one girl, fourteen to the rest of the State. Only these three are one-third of what's been in Catalonia all year. Indeed, we have a law for the right of women to eradicate the masculist violence that has been a pioneer in the State and many places; a law that in its time has laid and placed the focus on the various forms and areas of violence; a law that has been of consensus, that starts from the defense of the rights of women; a law that contemplates the whole series of instruments to be deployed, of resources needed to ensure the fight against masculist violence; a law that should have been deployed primarily with all resources in its background and that has not been so; a law that has seen as in the two years since its approval – now doze, already – basically what has been done against political violence. A few clippings that are just now starting to turn around. It's been 12 years. The complaints continue to grow. Violations occupy more scope and scope than the government, once and for all, priorities of truth, with resources and with concrete policies, the struggle against male violence, beyond the Faristol. Needs are identified, solutions proposed; just a step forward. And that's what we wanted to do with this Law 5/2008 Reform Bill proposal, which is not really a reform; in fact, it's an enlargement, it's going beyond what the law collected at the time. We have presented – and we have voted in this Parliament several times – the need to review this law. Also, in many cases, from the reports that the same expert entities, and under the responsibility of the Català de los Dones Institute, made the year 2018, when the two years of the law were done, and where a whole series of shortcomings were detected, partly because of the deployment and partly because of aspects that were left out at the time, well because they did not gather in favor of this consensus, well because at the time they did not have the strength and urgency that they have now, as for example, digital rapes. What we're doing now is moving on. We've come a little closer to putting forward this reform proposal. Why? Because it hadn't been done all this time. Because we have not seen, on the part of the Government, an initiative and a willingness to bring it forward. Because we saw a new legislature ending and that's not ugly. And that's why I wanted to explain to you a little bit as we've worked on it, because, in the end, we're a group of eight Members and Members, that we're in opposition, that we think the reform of a law like 5/2008, that was done the way it was done, which required a similar process to be done. A process of participation led by the government, with an extensive participation of all entities and that we can give place to return to debate two years, twelve years later, here in Parliament, who is the focus and who are the policies that Catalonia needs to face up to the mascot rapes. That couldn't have been it. It couldn't have been because the government didn't do it, and because we don't have the ability to do a process involving these dimensions, because that's why they have the responsibility and the capabilities of those who rule. But then, what have we done? We have commissioned a group of experts who did work on 5/2008, who did work on it and have worked on their deployment in all these years. We made a charge of Laia Serra, a well-known lawyer for many of us who are here for his role as a lawyer in the defense of the fight against masculinist rapes. We were going to talk to other experts that you may have met, too. And this document is the result of this process of debate, of internal work, in which, as a minimum, I, as a Member, can ensure that I am after a lot, and that just one of the objectives that have this document and this beginning of this debate is that we can all learn a lot, that we can all bring these experts back here to Parliament, to listen to them, to hear them, because they mean us, because they correct us, because they say what we need... Why do we have here in Parliament again the strength of March 8 and the strength of the experts and of the people who fight daily in the struggle against masculist rapes? And this is one of the first great goals of this law: to make this debate. Making this debate, that we can do it all, exactly, as was also said, beyond party labels. We don't want the result of this law to be a law of a political group. We want parliamentary work to allow us to be a law that the whole Parliament can feel unique, that they can feel that they belong to them and that the result does not have to be what is now, but the result of this process of debate. We have focused on some of the aspects we thought would be better than 5/2008, which I will explain to you now, even though they have already read the text. One of the most prominent is the inclusion of institutional violence, both in form and as a whole, defining the concept of "detailed diligence and specifying that institutional violence is exercised by action, but also by omission; that it is the responsibility of all public institutions to defend women's rights and to defend women victims of male violence, and that not doing so or doing it poorly is also institutional rape and is also a male violence. Introduce digital rapes. As has already been mentioned, every time we see attacks that have a place in the digital field: identity supplantation, recording and dissemination of images without consent..., I have recently seen a feeling that for the first time I said that a private photo cannot be disseminated unless it is with the express consent of the person appearing in this photo; but this feeling is not done in the wake of the struggle against masclistic rapes, it is done in the field of privacy. What we want is for this to also be recognized as a male violence. We reinforce the definition of consent. He also spoke yesterday about the proposal approved by the Council of Ministers of the Government of the Spanish State. Consent is: "Yes, it is, it is not; the rest is rape. The burden of proof to prove that there has been a consensual relationship in cases where there is doubt must always be from the aggressor, never from the victim, and until we understand this we will continue to have herds and continue to have victims who must prove the situation of violation and the situation of violence that happened because, at the time, they did not say a 'not quite clear'. No, that's not it; it has to be said a "yes very clearly, because really you can put the burden of proof on the person who made the attack. Other aspects. We introduce and reinforce the concept of "cross-sectionality", which has also come out numerous times in this legislature, in debates in this plenary, above all from the Parliament of the Dones and the monogramme that we have made in disembarkation. To recognize the different axes that determine the situations of oppression and privileges of women. Recognise other areas of discrimination that are attached to what it is to be women in themselves: the origin, the colour of the skin, the administrative situation – already mentioned –, the institutional racism that involves the law bites, the age, the social class, functional or psychic diversity, the addictions, the serological state, the deprivation of liberty, sexual orientation or identity and the expression of gender. All these factors add to the violence and rapes that women suffer. That's why intersectionality is key to keeping it in mind at the time of talking about male rapes. We have added, briefly, other forms of violence that are also being talked about. Environmental violence against women and the creation of an intimidating environment. Obstetric rape: the freedom to be seas or not to be seas and to decide how to be parim; to be able to guarantee, always, that we will have a part and a postpart respect and respect. We also ensure and extend the specialized training to all those people who have to intervene in the approach of male violence. A fundamental thing to really advance towards the elimination of institutional violence and the revictimization of women victims of male violence. In short, what we propose is to extend the law to all women, to all spheres and forms and adapt it to the questions we receive from the street and from the feminist movement. We will see again hundreds of thousands of women who will be on the street – also men, who will accompany us – to denounce once again the masculist emergence and gender inequalities. We go out to denounce the feminization of the poor, the climate emergency, housing and energy insecurity, the foreign law and the law bite; all of them with hard impacts, too, on women. We know that rapes on women are systemic, they are much wider than the demand for this reform proposal, but we also insist that it is necessary, now and here, to make it more transversal, stronger and wider. We're seeing new forms grow up around us and lead us to want to invisibility of masculinist rapes. We have seen, and we see, how it is still intended to criminalize the women who defend their children and their daughters of the abusers, who fight with orders of departure who are continually vulnerable and who live with them, who live with great anxiety. We've seen attempts to discriminate and deny trans women, non-binary identities, sex workers. We want to propose a law that encloses all the diversity of feminisms and recognizes all the axes of oppression and violence that we suffer from women. A law that I didn't leave behind and that is, in itself, a control mechanism because institutions can't do anything about it, can't make excuses. In dealing with this law, as we say, we want to open a process of participation, debate and appearances, representatives, movement and feminist organizations. They're the ones who have to make sense of this law proposal. It is we, as Members and Members, who have to listen to them and who have to collect this and turn it into the items that we think we need to be able to always improve the proposal that is presented to start this debate. For this reason, we want to ask, from our group, all the collaboration, predisposition, will and gains to the rest of parliamentary groups, because the result can also be a result of consensus, a result that is also a pride of all groups, a pride of this Parliament. Let us work together so that it can be a law of all, so that it can be a law of this Parliament. I particularly invite the City Group to make their contributions, which I consider necessary in the process of law more than what is ultimately the result of their proposal. We believe that all contributions are necessary and everything that strengthens the mechanisms and deploys what is already in force in the Law of Male Violence 5/2008 and these better ones that we propose are always a positive contribution. How probably the legislature may not last as long as it would be necessary to finish this parliamentary process... in fact, from our own group we are asking for elections as soon as possible, but that is not why we wanted to stop starting this process, because we believe that everything we can go through while these months are still going through the parliamentary process, through the pomp, will already be used to make this debate and will already be used to improve and enrich the text. And also, as a group, we pledge that, when there is a new legislature, it is one of the first initiatives that we will re-register with all those contributions that we have been able to gather in the process that we will have from here to finish the current legislature, which we do not know when it will be. We talked about this yesterday, the Council of Ministers approved the organic law for sexual freedom, the law of "only if it is, the law of the victims of the herd, the law that takes a step forward in the recognition of rapes. We believe that with this law, that it will also be a _marc that will serve around here, for Catalonia, the Spanish State can become a safer country for women, but we also know that if there is no formation, if there is no education, and if there is no deep awareness from small, small, zero-three, we will never succeed in changing a patriarchal society that condemns women to male violence, discrimination and inequality. There is also a shared responsibility, a responsible child, a sex-affective commitment that puts forward the cures, the people, the equality and respect, and without any parental pin. It is necessary to end patriarchy to achieve equality and the end of male violence. As we were told here to the Ple that we held in disembarkation the Vice-President of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia, the Montse Pineda, to abolish patriarchy. Let's keep up and take steps to abolish it with this debate as well. Target March 8th and viscose the feminist struggle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next and to defend the whole issue presented jointly for the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mrs Jenn Díaz. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.179.0	Thank you, President. Well, I wanted to devote a great deal of my intervention to enlargement, which I agree is 'enlargement', to the proposal of the commons' companies, but I would like to take up the intervention made by Mrs Roldán, because I believe that this issue is very sensitive and very important as not to come here for another round of these incendarial debates; because I do not agree with it, and to present a statement to the whole of his proposal for law does not mean that they do not let them do the work, which means that you are, in any case, invited to do the work in this process, the processing that the commons' companies propose, to make these same approvals. And I'll tell him why this is all about everything. First place, because you lied. Mistake the formula, just like in the boy escort debate. Set the problem and can't give with the right solution. And this path you propose is not the way. And that's why we're presenting a goal to totality, and not because we don't want to abolish patriarchy or we're against male violence or feminicide. It's stupid to consider a threat to the totality of saying that we're against doing this job. And, I insist, to signify to the parliamentary groups that we have presented the message to the totality as if we were accomplices of male violence, it seems to me that it does not touch. And he says: "Feminism must be demonstrated with the facts. All right, so in Andalusia I stopped intimidating for Vox and selling the women's associations to the ultradretta. That's what they have to do. [[Greetings.]] And we're very comfortable doing this whole thing for five reasons: the first is that many of these measures are proposed by girls. The second, because, with the approval of the assumptions, this endowment is going to pull forward. The third, because the technical part does not depend on the department, as you want it to believe. The fourth, because the reports are independent. And the fifth, because what's missing in any case would be coordination, and not the one you're planting. And, said that, I would like to devote my intervention to doing it in the right place and to talking about dealing with the company of the commons. I insist, I thank the work they have done with the lawyer Laia Serra; the work is well known. I agree that it's an enlargement and we value it, and we don't just agree that we're excited, because we also want to learn with this processing. She was very envious when we were introduced to the ten years of the 2008 pioneer law. And to think that we can have the opportunity to summon all these entities to the Parliament of Catalonia in order to be able to work on rapeseed with all these entities, that we do not forget that they are responsible for most of the initiatives that we have made in this legislature, so it seems to us that we are privileged to be able to do this work and to re-open this law, that it was pioneering, but that they have spent two years and we do not have to talk anymore. Many of these requests and complaints have come out in the day-to-day Parliamentarians. Many come out to the declaration of the Parliament of the Dones, we discussed it in the monogram, we talk about this law of "it is only yes and in this monogram the Republican Group we presented precisely a proposal on active consent, precisely because the sexual freedom of women went beyond "it is not. We have broadened this consensus and we want to recognize explicit consent and that means withdrawing consent at any time. It also means that explicit sexual consent means that it can be withdrawn at any time and that inaction or silence are not consent. And the mark is clear: we prefer to talk about desire, rather than consent. It is a change of focus that the feminist struggle has managed to take the streets to institutions and we join them. Another question that will have to be addressed by this change is the gender dissidence of Article 19, and this morning, asking the question about sexual rape in Catalonia and its revictimizing, I took advantage to remember that feminism, if it is not anti-racist, is also not feminist and, therefore, we also go with all these intersectionalities of what Segovia was talking about. And it's that transfolic feminism doesn't serve us either; it doesn't represent us and we don't want it. For this reason, the proposed modification to collect and protect transgender or intersex women, for those people who are not binary, must also be object of this law. Radical feminism ends up defending that trans women are not a political subject of feminism and we cannot disagree more. Therefore, this law which seeks to protect all the women of this country can only make it necessary to recognize also the trans and dissidence of genera as a political subject. Vulnerability will always be a political subject of feminism. Law 5/2008 on the right of women to live free of masculinist rapes was born with press, but it is pioneering, and in two years – as I said now – the Catalan society, as it has expanded its consensus and I think that in two years the awareness of our streets has taken a qualitative step, the attention of the feminist movement has made – as I said – that this awareness steps of the road to the institutions. And we have to go a little further; this law is no longer useful for the attention and awareness there is on the street. And in the same way that we have passed – as I said – from "it is not only "it is yes we have found that the survival of victims also passes through a repair system. And, therefore, that there must be a treatment that you do not revictimize and that is so much more important than prevention, detection and assistanceism, and, in this sense, modification would also address this concrete point, because moving from victim to survivor is essential in order to move forward. And about the repair, we don't have to talk; we don't have to talk much. There's not much work to do on this question. And we need to continue looking for mechanisms to adapt the solutions we find in institutions and adapt them to the needs of victims and, therefore, of this journey as victims to survivors. Therefore, listen to them too so that they can know how they are more useful, how they can get this law to be more useful. And again, the same way we talk about plural feminism, we also need to talk about plural violence, because we don't just have a form of male violence. It is all a patriarchal, structural system and, therefore, we need to be able to talk about the type of masculinist rapes, because we have a catholic one. With which we are well aware that, in the band of feminicides, there are many rapes, this patriarchal system that exercises violence against women, so we have to be able to talk about this diversity that have the rapes and not just stay in feminicide or sexual violence, but also talk about obstetric, economic, digital or institutional violence. It is another of the consensus, which the committee re-commissions and in each of the parliamentary initiatives that we have taken forward, that institutional violence has remained outside the law, and it is a consensus of the entities of this country that it is to be. And psychological and physical violence may be as a society we have already accepted as male violence, but there are many others who pass more unnoticed, that we may have more internalities, that we have a daily routine and that are also part of this male violence. As this masclism always ends up finding mechanisms to control our lives in the public sphere, but also in the private sphere, we have to be able to attend to the specific needs of all the violence between male violence. These are some of the requests of the proposed amendment of the law which, I insist, we join enthusiastically. Proposals that we support and that we have voted repeatedly in this Parliament and, therefore, this is a good week to have this debate in your Parliament. And we are convinced that with this expansion of the political and conceptual framework, because it is a political advancement of the law, we will better protect and protect the women of our country and offer a safer and more humanizing legislative space. Because when we talk about feminizing politics, the only thing we're saying is that we want it more humane and that we want it more useful and at the disposal of the citizenry. The work we can do with this law is a challenge. We've got him. There are – with I said – enthusiastically and to learn. I wanted – with this missing minute – to remember that this legislature has been very important in issues of gender, equality. We have the Pla d'egalité, we have made the Parliament of the Dones, we start the protocol against settlement and we have made a monogram, and I would like to say that this does not cease to be political will on the part of all parliamentary groups, for the institution, for the presidency of the Parliament, but above all it has not been possible without the entities and the self-organised women of Catalonia. Therefore, from here, our thanks, we invite you to this process. We want to be part of it, and we see the diumenge on the street. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.180.0	Thank you. Next is the return of Congresswoman Anna Geli, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.181.0	President, councillors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Today we are bringing to the whole debate the Law proposition of amendment 5/2008, of the right of women to eradicate male violence, so as to initiate its parliamentary processing. We appreciate very positively Catalonia's initiative in Comú Pode, the fact of bringing it here and to which we will give full support, because the will to modify it is unanimous. It is a law that needs to adapt to the new needs and that needs to give response to the new forms of male violence. Before anything else, I would like to recall again what the World Health Organization says, which catalogues male violence as a global problem of epidemic proportions. One of the twenty women in Europe has been raped. This means that around 9 million women have been raped throughout Europe, according to current FRA data, the European Union Agency on Foenamental Rights. Not only that, but you read as the 2004 state only accounts for victims of violence or who have suffered male violence within the pair. Approval at the time of its 2008 law was a turning point for Catalonia, for its content and how it articulated. He counted on the participation of collectivists, as has already been said in previous interventions, associations of women experts, feminist entities, which allowed to make a law, together with parliamentary groups, very well agreed with civil society. It has to be that way, it has to be that way again, we have to do it again, or, with the least, it has to be that way. At that time, for example, the news from abroad spoke of sexual assimilation as dishonest touching, which entailed an indefinition of the crime and which gave as a result the total impunity of the aggressor. And here's the key to the whole fold. We need to make a law, I think we need to make a law where the attacker doesn't go unpunished in any case, in any form of male violence. The law of 2008 speaks of secondary victimization, but it does not speak of institutional rape, certainly. Since the Working Group on Institutional Violence against Women, which integrates specialized institutions and entities, there has also been a diagnosis and inclusion of the concept of "institutional violence for the purpose of valuing it also in this new law reform. This concept was also prioritised between the proposals of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia and the deputies, and which, in the end, materialized in the first single plethora of women, on July 1. Also this monogram of '1 July was captaining over the six axes of the Beijing Platform for Action, all working also the specificity in male violence. With regard to institutional violence, for example, reports such as the Sirecovi detects many cases of prison confinement, the exclusion of use of force and the abuse of authority. This I want to relate to the urgent need also to repeal some state laws that do not help the full freedom of women. This is the case, for example, of the foreign law, which engages women with sexual exploitation mafias. Different forms of male violence mutate and adapt to the environment as if they were a chameleon. Assignments to social networks, videos, photographs and child pornography are embedded in the different forms of the names "digital rapes, certainly, and must fit into this new law. Recent studies have shown that infants start to consume pornography from the age of eight, and this is very dangerous because it conditions the behavior of relationships in the infant, adult stage and, more importantly, it cosages and materializes the woman's body. From the Catalonian Audiovisual Council, some degrading contents are being brought to the public prosecutor's office and have been withdrawn, but it is certainly a task that is insufficient and that requires the greatest possible transversality in order to achieve effective protection of the woman. In this sense, the sexual and affective education of children, from childhood, is key, and so it was approved in the previous motions. Paradoxically, social networks have removed millions of women all over the world who have dared to speak, to make visible, not to shut up, and to denounce attacks, violations and abuses. Because we all know that in the abuse, in the abuser, the silence of the woman is lethal. It has been and will be an authentic feminist revolution on the streets that has gone since #MeToo, with more than 19_million stories of sexual abuse on Twitter, up to #MatxisEI. But it doesn't still have to be left behind, and that's why it makes it easier to file complaints, to report more, not to think about and, above all, that these complaints don't involve a revictimization of the woman. In the proposal to update the new law, we have suggested on various occasions that the Català de la Dona Institute, the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia and also of the Parliament, and there is certainly a lack of resources. And the need for this training and training of the professionals of the comprehensive care and recovery network, the presuppositional endowment – and so it remains clear in the proposition of law of the assumptions –, which for the first time includes the perspective of gender in all its departments, must facilitate the deployment of these SIADs, empower those that already work and deploy them territorially. It is necessary and urgent for victims of male rape to receive compensation and help so that there is a total reparation of the victim and of the children to whom he has not so far given them a good answer. I believe that we agree to take reference to the Istanbul Convention, which clearly specifies the crimes of female genital mutilation, forced marriage, settlement, forced aneurysm and forced sterilization. And that's why I also think we're obliged to include it in this reform or enlargement – which is also very well found – of this law. Also cases of discrimination in the workplace, where there is discrimination by employers or by maternity, certainly. I would like to recall at this point that in Catalonia, in Law 17/2015, the trade union leader of equality, in Article 39, was included, but the Constitutional Court fell on us. The modification of the law must also allow us to include rigorously, concretely and thoroughly concepts such as those proposed by the commons and which refer to definitions of intersex persons, non-binary identities, the definition of due diligence, cross-sectionality or sexual consent. The concept of ‘sexual consent' is another of the key elements of this sacra, which we believe is linked to the reform of the Criminal Code. Here I also want to remind you of the campaign that has been done and that has been taken down by the 8-M des de l'Institut Català de les Dones, which already proposed the « yes only it is in front of « no. And, well, we made a statement to the totality for what it does to the amendment of the law, which makes reference to units of integral forensic value, presented for Ciutadans, because these units, as it was said, are deployed for the parliamentary mandate to cities, already, like Tarragona, Lleida and Girona, and also to the Lands of the Ebre, apart from those that have already been implemented to the territorial divisions of Barcelona. And it is also foreseen, according to the organizational, technical and human resources possibilities, that by the end of 2021-2022 these units of integral forensic value are deployed to all the judicial parties of Catalonia. Finally, I would like to refer to this March 8th, a day of celebration of the feminist movement, which must be a health cord of the most extreme right and which must allow women to stop the world and all the countries from celebrating one day; that March 8th and that all the days are a wall of contention against negationism and patriarchy, and that all the exhibitions of male violence that are given in any place and at any time do not go unpunished. The last episode suffered yesterday from a company of ours, a deputy in Madrid, Laura Borràs, to whom supposed members of the body and security forces, who would have to go for our security, gave them masculinist insults, degrading and xenophobic. Because, as Jiddu Krishnamurti said, violence does not only involve killing someone, it is also materiality when we use a denigrating word, when we make gestures to denigrate another person or when we obey by reason; violence is much more subtle, it is much deeper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to the contrary, has the parable of Congresswoman Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.183.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Let's see, I'm going a little bit bit bit by bit. Mrs Diaz said that I had brought an intervention here or had made an incendiary intervention. I actually feel maybe, well, I don't have his style, a style he said here that our arguments were stupid. I'm sorry I'm not as moderate, not as polite, not as respectful as you are. [[applause]] , which is able to say that our arguments are stupid, as Mrs Jenn Díaz said. You also gave us the example of Andalusia, which is an example that you use repeatedly and I really ask you to strongly that, since you like to talk about other autonomous communities, which I think is perfect, at least to get better informed, because it is that you look, in Andalusia, Citizens has increased the funds against macho violence and aid to women victims of macho violence up to 44,3_million_of_euros. In Murcia, where it also governs Citizens, we have doubled the budget to fight against macho violence. In Madrid, the Government of Citizens has opened twenty-four-hour care centres to care for victims of male violence. So, please, if you want to talk about other autonomous communities where you fortunately rule Citizens, do it, but do it with the right data. I'm asking you from here. [[Greetings.]] Mrs Diaz also told us that, well, we were wrong about the solution. It can be; it can be because we are not perfect. Now, who is sure not mistaken is you, because in sixteen years you have been unable to implement these forensic assessment units. Sixteen years! [[Greetings.]] I mean, you criticize the solutions of others, but yet you don't apply absolutely anything, you don't do any. And you can't pretend to defend women's rights by waving the blockade flag. And if you don't want to do it because it's a proposal from Citizens, then, listen, I insist, do it according to the State Law on Gender Violence, which already in 2004 talked about the implementation of these forensic units, please. And it is also that I am convinced that it is simply because it is presented by Citizens, because, if not, I do not understand how the Councillor of Justice, who has been making all my intervention scarecrows, has stuck two months – two months – announced to drum and platter the same units; she says: "A multidisciplinary team will draw up a unique expert report with all the necessary elements in the courts of male violence. Look, you can name it whatever you want, but this is the proposal you make to Citizens, Mrs. Capella. [[Greetings.]] It is that, please..., that my colleague Naomi introduced it a few months ago, that you copied it and that now you intend to present an amendment to the whole. It just doesn't make sense, it just doesn't make any sense. The deputy, too, of Junts per Catalunya, who have also put an amendment to the whole, is that she recognized it, and said that these units will be definitively implemented in 2022. Look, look, in what we've been doing since 2020, and we're on March 4, fourteen women have been murdered in Spain, three in Catalonia, is anyone we can expect until 2022 that you will have to implement these forensic units? [[Greetings.]] Really! So, please, I insist– please, I insist–, since you, Mrs. Capella, likes our proposal so much, I know early, you implant it, but stop blocking it. We have also tabled an amendment to the budgets of EUR 3.2 million. Let's see if he accepts it. Let her laugh at this situation that is taking the lives of so many women, shame me, Mrs. Capella, shame me – shame me. [[Greetings.]] You fill your mouth talking about feminism and carrying the banner, that's very good, but it's that then you don't do any rigor measures and above it is that you block those of others. And I tell you that just by holding a banner here and making announcements that have no budget content or resources on the part of the government, it does not end the macho violence. Look, as I told you before, this is a struggle that concerns us all, and citizenship chose us to respond to their problems. Therefore, these forensic assessment units, as they have already shown in other autonomous communities, serve to end macho violence, serve to prevent, serve to protect women who are living this hell, because we do not want one more death, nor one less woman. So, I insist, I insist from here that you re-think and withdraw these amendments as a whole. Look, citizens may lose this initiative today, but, you know what? , that this is not going to lose Citizens, here we lose everyone, especially women and victims of macho violence. So in your consciousness it remains. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.184.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to express its position, has the word in the first place Beatriz Silva, of the Socialists and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.185.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. As has happened in recent years, this Sunday millions of women will go to the streets to highlight the different forms of discrimination and violence that affect us simply because we are women. Many of the posters that we will see on the streets this March 8 will refer to some of the issues that address the two proposals to amend Law 5/2008, from the right of women to the eradication of macho violence, which are presented to us by the groups of Catalonia in Comú Puemera and Citizens. Both Catalan legislation and the 2004 Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection against Gender Violence have been pioneering laws in an area where progress has been made in recent years, but where much remains to be done. In both cases, there is a need to adapt the legislation to the Istanbul Convention and the recommendations made by specialists and entities working in direct care in relation to new forms of macho violence, such as digital violence, but also to others that were left out of the law at the time. The Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection against Gender-based Violence was adopted in 2004, becoming the first comprehensive European law regulating gender-based violence. Four years later the Catalan law arrived, which also became a pioneering norm, and also very ambitious, because already in its title it sets us a goal that we may never come to see: the eradication of violence suffered by women and girls by the mere fact of being so. The Law on the Eradication of Macho Violence was innovative because it established for the first time the right to recovery and reparation, but also because it introduced the concept of prevention. Among other measures, it provided for compensation to the victims on the basis of the damage caused, the consequences on their physical and mental health, as well as the creation of a pension default fund, and the guarantee of adequate and effective recovery treatment. Twelve years have passed, but none of these issues have come true because the governments that have happened in Catalonia have not had the will to prioritise and dispose of the resources for their deployment. Nor does this Government, which has not included a specific item for it in the 2020 budgets. Catalonia currently has a network of care that reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of gender-based violence; nine_of_each_ten are left out of any kind of care. There are only eight specialized intervention services to cover the entire territory. This means that there are only fifty and nine professionals to recover the victims from all over Catalonia. In recent years, only one hundred women have been able to access an annual home that allows them to stay away from their attacker. The waiting lists for psychological care are for months. We are far from the objectives of this law, which was to ensure the recovery of all the damage caused, but we are even further away from ensuring prevention, which should be doing, among others, the care and information services, the SIADs, which are completely saturated because they do in part the work that they are unable to take on the specialized intervention services, the SIES, which are at the limit. All this also translates into institutional violence, because we are not providing from our institutions the resources or services that victims of gender-based violence need, and that is another issue that arises with the reform of this law. The truth is that if this law were to be deployed, it would probably not be necessary now to raise many of the legal changes that are being put on the table, because, although it does not expressly mention them, the law already implicitly contemplated them, as well as provided for the necessary conditions to modify the ideological and cultural framework that is now claimed from the street but that does not have an effective translation in our policies and budgets. Although we believe that it is necessary to update the law, from the Socialists i Units per Avançar Group we believe that opening papers at a time when the end of the legislature has been announced is an exercise that will probably remain in a headline for this March 8th but not in a real reform that should be addressed in the context of a new legislature that allows us enough time to take up this debate in depth. However, we will participate because we believe that it is necessary to debate and move forward in a problem that is gigantic, of which we see a part, but which hides many faces that translate into physical, psychological, harassment, sexual abuse, but also treatment and exploitation. We need the law to explicitly address women with special needs, but also forms of violence such as female genital mutilation and forced marriages, which are not alien to us. There are some points in the proposed amendment made by the Catalonian Group in Comú Puermos that we do not share so how they are raised, such as that of extending the scope of the law to other collectives such as non-binary identities or gender dissidence, which, unlike transgender women, who are already covered by the Law on Gender Violence, are not. We believe in the need and urgency to guarantee the rights of all groups and their legal protection, but we understand that this can be done without making women disappear as a political subject in our laws. The feminist struggle has its origins in the discrimination that women suffer from the fact that they are born with a given sex, which sees them exposed to violence such as genital mutilation, forced marriages or trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, but also to other forms of exclusion, such as preventing them from having the right to education. Because we are women, we suffer from work discrimination, we carry out domestic work and care for children and dependent persons. This, which has been and continues to be the object of the feminist struggle, we believe that it should not be drawn up and debated so that it does not happen with this amendment of law. With regard to the proposed amendment made by the Citizens' Group, we have been very insistent in this legislature on the need to deploy the comprehensive forensic assessment units which are covered by the Organic Law of 2004 and which are one of the measures to be implemented under the State Pact against Gender Violence and which should have been launched in September last year. Since the beginning of the legislature we have been insisting through motions and resolutions on this issue since Catalonia received almost 12,8_million_de_euro in 2018 and another 12,8_million_de_euro in 2019 to deploy the State Pact against Gender Violence. It is difficult to understand that since the resources have not been put in place until now, considering that Catalonia is the community that makes the least restraining orders and that comprehensive forensic assessment units are an indispensable tool for judges to take protective measures. Faced with the amendment to the whole of the government groups, our group will abstain, because from our point of view the units of comprehensive forensic assessment are already covered by the Organic Law of 2004, which also expressly determines that their regulation in the different communities that have assumed competence depends on the forensic services, and not on new laws. In Catalonia there is already an operating protocol, and they have also started to deploy these units this February; late, but the truth is that they are on the move. We believe that what we need right now is to deploy them in their entirety, to monitor their functioning, and not to open a new paper. Anyway, I would like to recall, as I did at the December Monographic Plenary, that it is not true, as the Citizens' Group repeats, that Catalonia is the only autonomous community that has not so far deployed the comprehensive forensic assessment units; another is Madrid, where the People's Party and Citizens have not only deployed them, but have not even executed the money transferred to deploy the State Pact against Gender Violence. And I do have the right data. Since Vox's support to be in the Madrid government, they have chosen to return the money transferred to them by the central government, rather than taking steps that are necessary and that are part of the achievements of the feminist struggle. And I do have the right data. It is hard to believe that they are really concerned about the fight against macho violence, if they do not carry out something here that they propose to shield us by law, and where they are also necessary, because I want to remember that Madrid is the second community that dictates less restraining orders. That is why, well, we hope that the reform, which will certainly not see the light in that legislature, will see it in the next one and that it will have a majority consensus, as counted in the 2004 and 2008 laws. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.186.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy, Ms. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.187.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Many of the questions that have been raised in this debate, and that we have joined and agree... some of which relate to Ciutadans' proposal. We, from the outset, do understand the motivation and political motivation to put on the table the need for the actual deployment of units of integral forensic value. In this sense, this demand and this need are obvious. So, I don't think we're supposed to worry about..., look, we don't usually agree with Citizens, but in this sense what they're asking about need is that; and that they haven't deployed..., it's that way, you say it to Citizens or you say it. So, in this sense, we do not understand very well the proposal of the papers to the totality of the governing groups. Yes, we agree that it's very likely that it's because it's you; you don't have much success in generating consensus, that's what it is. And surely there is also no mention of the totality of the proposal of the commons because they are the commons and because there are obvious agreements between the governments. And so politics is about that, and we understand that that's what it is. On the question of necessity, we do understand that there is an opportunity, there was an opportunity, a need..., we politically add to this need to hear that the actual implementation of these units is a step for..., would help to map and improve the patriarchal structure and natural justice. We know perfectly well that justice is a long way from being fair to women and to our needs, there are many judicial decisions that have outraged us, that have made us feel insecure, there are many police actions that are so, and therefore they are units that could help. Tanmateix, they would also transform the structure of this violence, of this patriarchal justice, also thought of as the defence tool of patriarchal violence. We could say that, in a sense, justice today is leading the patriarchal reaction to the movement and the struggles and advances of the feminist struggle. We, in this sense, from a political perspective, will not support totality. On the proposal made by the commons, it has already been said throughout the plenary, it has been said many times in this legislature the need to modify the law, to extend it... We also return, once more, to put in value how this law was born, the importance of naming things by their name, of removing the violence from the plains, that is, isn't it? , to place it in the space that touches, to structure it, to name it as patriarchal violence, as a structure that oppresses us, and that this patriarchy, therefore..., as this set of dynamics of oppressions that start from the binary classification of gender and that understand a sexual division of the work for which it is lacking, is devalued and invisible and the work of the women is spoiled. In this sense, we understand, we share the layout they make; it is a demand that has not only been placed on the table by the Parliament of the Dones, of multiple collections, of the same impulses, at the time, of the Law 5/2018. There's a part that tastes a little hard, that's the reality we all know, isn't there? What's the matter with this legislature, and what do they want me to say to them? I know it's hard for me to come in this way, a little, on the week of March 8th; that although the text is impeccable, we share it, it's necessary, but you have this question, don't you? : a proposal has been approved for a parliamentary and legislative work that will be dead and that we will start again in the next legislature; you see which majorities will be, that this too should be taken into account. And, therefore, we do believe that it was not opportune to do so; but, well, we will give it support. It's our visit. And if we could get some good headline on the week of March 8th, maybe it wasn't a priority, but also, we insist, we would make the need virtue and assign the virtue of its proposal. Add without further ado – and I do not want to repeat myself – that this week of March 8th, International Women's Day, we continue to think that we should aim at the base that we want to change, the patriarchal and racist capitalist system, as the most responsible for the inequalities and exploitations that we suffer from women. And also to signify, for what it does to space – and, president, let's say more – to signify and assume from this Faristol, to take advantage of this opportunity of the debate that falls from the two parliamentary groups, that no space escapes from patriarchal violence; that our political spaces, no political spaces escape; that the feminist parties and women's spaces do not escape us either, and that it also – and we – make the woman self-critical and mark the difference about how we face male rapes, looking at them in the face and taking a line that is not difficult, that it is to assume that the attacker is sometimes your company of militancy and, therefore, with the head of others, still violates them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperanza García. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.189.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors. Well, I've been seen that I'm not in shape, or I'm going to do a short but concise intervention. That the manifestation of the harshest, most rudimentary, most invasive, cruelest and most burning and most injuring part of inequality is macho violence, that's evidence, isn't it? In the end, it addresses human rights, fundamental freedoms and, above all, the dignity of women, right? And in the fight against this macho violence some choose one way and others, another, and proof of this are these two propositions of law. One, which talks about the need for the implementation of the comprehensive forensic assessment units; that what it talks about is how this Government of the Generalitat fails to comply with the State Pact against Gender Violence, and how necessary these units are, which can also reinforce this widespread dynamic in the Catalan courts, of greater refusal of restraining orders, which does not happen in the rest of Spain, and that, therefore, although it is not a strictly indispensable instrument for the implementation of these comprehensive forensic assessment units, it does not require a specific law, because it is being done by other communities without the need for such adaptation, we understand that it can serve to give, in the end, that impetus to the Government that is lacking and that makes it non-compliance. On the other hand, we have another proposal for a law that follows another different way, it is the second way. And that worries us more, because it expands the concepts of macho violence, concepts that we do not share, and because we believe that in the end we frame the legislative concept in these matters in a kind of..., in the end, of pamphlet tactics in the style of Minister Montero and that we, of course, do not share. Because this extension to obstetric institutional economic violence, which, in addition, even – if you look at the text – speaks of termination of pregnancy "out of the assumptions enabled by the law, which to us seems dangerous, that psychological violence also, by omission – tell me if that determination is going to be easy. And also because it includes regulations of concepts that we believe are therefore indeterminate, subjective, and that will legally prevent judges and institutions from providing protection to those women who are victims of gender-based violence. Because you even talk about desire, don't you? And because they can also introduce elements of discrimination, of violation of the presumption of the right of innocence, and because in the end, then, ironies of life are fixed: after so many years, that song that Sabina sang ironically saying that the European Parliament had passed a law to abolish the desire, because here the Lords of Potem do it to the contrary and very badly, from our point of view. Given, then, those two proposals, we are certainly not going to support the amendment to the whole that you have submitted to the Citizens' Lords for this law, because despite not being indispensable we believe it can be positive. We also understand that these units are funded with final funding from the State Pact against Gender Violence. I don't understand why the council doesn't push this implementation, which the prosecutors themselves have already denounced. We had the appearance, last week, of the Chief Prosecutor of the TSJ, who confirmed it to us. That is, they have stayed in Barcelona, Gavà and Hospitalet. I think there's enough resources to do that, and the commitment must have, right? And, therefore, we will support that law to continue, we would ask for reflection from the rest of the groups, and above all we will continue to defend what we have always defended, right? : free, safe, living and equal, whether they are older, minors protected by public services and girls. And that's our priority. We did it and we took inspiration from it when we promoted the first Pact against Gender Violence, we did it by governing, we do it in the opposition... And strengthening and giving more security to women's integrity is an obligation. To do this from sectarianism, from populist demagogy and, of course, with the pamphletary legislative technique what it does is to unprotect them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.190.0	Yes, Mrs. Díaz, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.191.0	Contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.192.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.193.0	Yeah. Mrs. Roldan assures you that I have told you stupid people, and indeed it is not my style. I presume his innocence and that it was a mistake without malice. I invite you to review my intervention, and you'll see that I didn't say that. I said yesterday that feminism must be anti-racist and cannot be transfolic, but what I'm sure is not liberal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. As well, and as no papers have been presented to the totality of the proposed law amending Law 5/2008, of 24 April, the right of women to eradicate male violence, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, this proposed amendment can continue its processing. And in the case of the proposed amendment submitted for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and as a whole has been presented, presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republic, we will proceed to vote on this whole question. So let's start the vote. The debate on the totality of the return was approved by 65 votes to 42, with 25 abstentions, and this initiative has therefore been rejected. [[Question to the Government on the railway infrastructure of the Ebre Lands and Tarragona Camp]] [[300-00241/12]] Let us continue and move on to the next item on the agenda, which are the questions, and, first of all, the question to the Government on the railway infrastructure of the Lands of Ebro and the Camp of Tarragona, an question presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To defend it has the word of Congressman Eusebi Campdepadrós. When you want, Congressman. Hope that the deputies and deputies will just get out, effectively. [[Long break.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.195.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] Thank you, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Councillor, Councillors, Honourable Councillor Calvet. Well, benevolent counselor, this inquiry, in fact, addressed in its entirety to the State, but we have to transmit it through it. Theoretically, there has been the competence of regional and rolling stock, but we all know that in reality it has been a fake transfer, without resources, without real decision-making capacity, because at the end of the day it depends on the availability of the material of the service provider, which is the Renfe, and the investments of the infrastructure manager, which is Adif, which is still deciding in Madrid. Successive Spanish governments have trigated twenty years to build thirty-nine kilometres of the Mediterranean Corridor by developing a single route between Vandellòs and Vila-seca, and so on, still of Iberian size, while at the same time the AVE network was developing at a rate of one hundred and twenty kilometres per year. Barcelona and Valencia are the two main cities of the Catalan language area and are also, in the Spanish State, the second and third cities in number of inhabitants, and not to say the economic power of the two and their ports. In turn, the central government has sought to make every effort to ensure that Catalans and Valencians do not have a normalized and direct connection between both capitals, as a direct consequence of the zero-kilometre system of the Sun Gate. The Spanish State has made a far too much bet for the AVE with a network only exceeded for the Xina and which does not respond to rational planning from the territorial or economic point of view, but rather responds to a political project of vertebration of Spain to unite it or, as Minister Magdalena Álvarez said, to « sew it with steel cables. But, in Catalonia, these wires to hit the scanner. We'll give you a few figures, which if they usually abhor, in this case they illustrate, and a lot, the situation. The public investments in AVE executed at the decade of the economic crisis, 2008-2018, the decade of the centrifuges of the State to the autonomous communities, were of 31,414_million euros, while the distanzancias and raffles have had an investment in the same period of 6,388_million euros, five times less. In 2017, the AVE carried 267_million travellers across the state while rolling to Catalonia transports more than 400,000 daily users, i.e., about 150_million passengers in one year. Unlike the Spanish Court of Auditors, which is dedicated exclusively to political repression and confiscation, the Court of Auditors of the European Union is dedicated to verifying the effective fate and use of European public funds; it has ruled that EVA is slow, ineffective and politically oriented. The European auditors say that many cost-benefits to AVE in Spain were not viable from a socio-economic perspective, but that they have been implemented equally. There is really no Spanish decision, no infrastructure or judicial decision, that I can stand the European scrutiny. We also have the €4,000_million, the famous ‘rain of millions, millions of incomplete promises, that correspond to the Pla de roulaires de Catalunya 2008-2015 and that until now only 500_millions have materialized, a miserable 13_per_cent, that in this case it is the number of bad luck, while in the same period the roulaires de Madrid have had an inversion of €5,000_million. Comparisons are hateful, but revealing. The current railway reality in the Ebro Lands and Tarragona Camp has a lot to see with two decisions we say that misfortunes but now condition us totally. The first is the paralysis and disappearance of the T-11 intermodal station. The year 2009 was auctioned the construction of a large station south of the airport of Reus, six kilometres from Tarragona, six kilometres from Reus; a station strategically located to connect the Mediterranean Corridor with the line of Reus-Tarragona, with the highway AP-7, the airport of Reus and the port of Tarragona, and this station has never seen the light. In turn, at its place, the AVE station was built at Camp de Tarragona, at Secuita-Perafort, which, if it could have a technical justification, its location has turned out to be disruptive and now negatively conditions the future of the railway service to the territory; it is thirty kilometres from Tarragona and seven kilometres from Reus. And all two decisions are the direct consequence of the lunon decision making and with a vision of centralistic and radial brau hair, it was directly inherited from the conception for Philip V. With the marching inn of the new Vandellòs railway variant to Tarragona, the Lands of the Ebre, the station of the Village, they lose the four fast Euromed trains that linked the territory with Tarragona and Barcelona to change from a single high speed train that departs at the first hour of Tortosa and returns late to Barcelona and that joins together cities, that is, in just a few hours and a half. On the other hand, the offer of rollers and regionals is not changed and they do not recover, for the lines R15 and R16, the journey times that were extended due to the delays derived from the works and continue to feel longer journeys until Tarragona and Barcelona that were done in 2016. Renfe has prioritized in the new planning the commercial appeal of the services between Barcelona and Valencia. The two capitals will be connected by train in just over two hours and half, which was about time. So, it's not a high-speed line with the same services as the others, because there can't be trains running at three hundred miles per hour. But, in change, the citizens of the Lands of the Ebre will have difficult difficulties to connect with the AVE station of the Camp de Tarragona. And for what he does at Camp Tarragona, after the two decades of works of this tram of the Mediterranean Corridor, now we are left without trains from Salou and Cambrils to Barcelona and without Euromed to the city of Tarragona, train that we will have to go to the camp station but where there will not be the new Avlo, the high speed of low cost. All folded, a railway nyap that does not satisfy the territories, nor the users of rolling stock, nor the ones that go to Barcelona with regionals, nor those that go south with the Talgo or the Euromed, nor those that take the AVEs, nor those that expected some good frequencies from the Before or that you get the Avlo. The needs of residents in Tortosa or the Village, in the Lands of the Ebre, or of residents in Tarragona, in Reus, in Salou, in Cambrils, in Vila-seca or in the Hospitallet de l'Infant, in Camp de Tarragona, have been totally ignored, when we are talking about comarques like the Lands of the Ebre, who have felt just oblivious from the usual, and from the comarques of Tarragona, according to the metropolitan area of Catalonia, with about half a million inhabitants. All this is attached to the other claims of the territory such as the line of goods for the interior, or the entry into operation of the third wire to Tarragona, or the taking advantage of the platform of dismantled lives to plant a tram train for the populations of the Costa Daurada. And with regard to the tram train precisely, we know that from his advice they are working on this infrastructure project for Camp Tarragona. And I would want to ask you expressly how this project is at this time. It is necessary to enhance public transport and to enhance rail transport in order to move towards the de-population required by the fight against climate change in order to co-ordinate the country and promote the territorial balance that allows us to fight against depopulation and to provide equal opportunities for all citizens, viscous on viscous. In 2007 I remember that there was a great demonstration in Barcelona and the motto was not neither "We are a nation, nor the right to decide, nor independence, but that the motto of that demonstration was "For our infrastructures, for the continuous delays that the citizens are suffering with rollers. It's about trains that we started talking about independence. We are kind of paying for trains that go far; we keep talking about trains that go far, trains that don't last, and so we keep talking about independence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.197.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, MPs, MP Campdepadrós, thank you very much for this inquiry. He knows that one of the tasks we're working on is public transportation. Not only do we design strategies and think about the best service for the citizens, but we also think economically, as this government has shown in the presentation of the assumptions of this year, the assumptions that we presented to the Commission of Territories and Sustainability a few weeks ago. The department has planned to devote up to 2,539_million euros, a 55.9_percent of its budget, to sustainable mobility. Basically, therefore, this affects many areas, but above all it makes a clear bet for public transport. Together with environmental policies, they serve us for climate action, huh? In the end public transportation is also government action under the climate prism. And we agree – we agree, MP – that the lack of infrastructure in Catalonia has long since left our economy and also complicates the lives of our citizens and our citizens. Rodalies and regionals don't give the service they need and the investments that they eventually do – you were talking about the Vandellòs variant and the Hospital of the Child – like this, huh? This, in fact, forms part of the Mediterranean Corridor, they arrive late, they are incomplete – you also make reference to the station, the intermodal station of the Camp, or projects associated with the goods for the interior – and are verinades, eh? They're late, they're incomplete and they're vermin; whatever they're supposed to arrange for one band, they're just splattering it for the other. Why do we say that what they fix for one gang is spread for the other? Because, therefore, the entry into operation of this variation has actually affected much what is the functioning of public transport to the regions of Camp de Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre. So the task of the Government is that we have always done: to listen to the territory, to talk to the territory, to look for the best solutions, and, with this information and technical knowledge that we have, to plant while it is necessary – to plant while it is necessary – to Adif, to Renfe, to the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, the ancient Ministry of Development, therefore, to whom it corresponds, the options that can guarantee a quality public transport service. For all that, we want this, a service, an efficient, robust, sustainable public transport system, because the city trusts it and, say so, has public transport as a basis for its mobility, as a real alternative to private transport. We play the future of the planet, the future of our children and our girls, who are the most aware that we need to decarbonize mobility as a source of this climate action; also for the quality of the air, also for the day-to-day, but especially for the future of our children and our girls. In Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre you also know, and in fact, it is for this reason that you claim that the railway infrastructure is in condition, under the conditions that our economy and the population of these regions need. That's what you're asking for a few weeks ago, too, in demonstrations or acts, huh? , with demonstrations in the Lands of the Ebre or with acts in Tarragona. And that is the same thing that all parliamentary groups, without exception, all parliamentary groups are actually asking for. As we have already explained in the past weeks – above all, the Secretary of Infrastructure and Mobility, Mr. Isidre Gavín, who worked for the territory, and I myself, when I had the opportunity to do so – we believe that an insufficient offer has now been set up, with the entry into operation of the Vandellòs variant, which does not complete the territory and does not cover the needs of travellers. We had offered another configuration, the Generalitat had offered to renew the convention that was in force, a convention that had given out late in the inn in operation of the variant, the one that allowed us to stop from Euromed to the Village, but Renfe did not fly. That's what we put up a lot before the inn in operation of the variant, but Renfe didn't want it. And under purely commercial criteria he refused this petition, because they prioritized travel time and commercial time – which is also very important – between Barcelona and València; for two minutes between Barcelona and València, which is also very important, he did not manage to configure the optimal service for the Camp de Tarragona and Terres de l'Ebre businesses. We have supplanted in a way an imprecise and inaccurate little one, of which we have not just been satisfied, that we want to improve, but now we have this before and these Talgos which, combined, therefore, can give out to the demand of the lands of the Jews, complementarily to all bus service; obviously, but we have to be in the world and we have to improve it. This is our intention, this is our will, and so we have expressed it on more than one occasion. But this, as a matter of fact, has also involved another problem – you make reference to it – which is this dismantling of the Vandellòs-Salou-Port Adventure railway corridor, which I would like to remind you is part of the environmental impact statement of the same variant of the Mediterranean Corridor. Therefore, it is, we say, an obligation of Adif, but an obligation that we want it to turn into a position in the territory, that in view of being a problem it is converted into an opportunity. On an opportunity that is said – and you asked me about this topic specifically and I will answer it – « train tram, effectively. Years ago we talked about the opportunity to reconvert what the dismantling of this railway corridor on the coast means, to hear us, on a tram train. We keep in mind that the implementation of this system between Cambrils and Salou with connections to Tarragona, Reus and Vila-seca is consensual with the territory. By the year 2018, since the Government of the Generality, we have promoted a pact for the infrastructures of Tarragona, with all the assemblies involved: Tarragona, Reus, Vila-seca, Salou, Cambrils ; also we have extended it to the socio-economic part of the Camp of Tarragona. That's why two years ago and the same municipalities have been betting for this new transport model that will manage General Railways. That's why we've already put them in charge of General Railways, various projects that I'm going to quote and we've been working on for a long time. In this inquiry, rather than denouncing the burden – which we do – of what this lack of reversal and misconfiguration of the railway service means, we also want it to be used to transmit – through this inquiry, I insist – a positive message, a message of hope for the Tarragonans and Tarragonans and for the citizenry of the Lands of the Hebrews. The tram train has to be a real turnaround there where it's going to give services and, obviously, the whole territory. We wanted to do the need, virtue. We wanted to take advantage of this opportunity. We are yet to meet with Adif, we made a first meeting with the former government, to hear us, from all over the territory, the one that signed that pact for railway infrastructure that served a lot, but a technical meeting was to be derived that year in advance. We're about to set a date. The truth is that it has been a start of the legislature, that of Madrid, a little convulsive, but in any case, we also have bilateral contacts with the people of Adif so that it perfectly falls back on what this dismantling is – I insist, it forms part of the declaration of environmental impact – with the implementation of the tram train. We obviously need to coordinate and we need to ensure that everything we are working on – I insist – from Railways can be implemented with ease. What have we done with Railways, with the Government of the Generality, to facilitate the implementation of this tram train? From the start, we have already contracted the informational and environmental impact studies of this new tram train from Camp de Tarragona to define the best alternative for its deployment. The studies provide for a phased implementation, and the first is the one that would correspond to the tram between Cambrils and Tarragona. We want the tram train to be available at the end of 2024, at the end of 2024. Therefore, we will write the project built in 2021 – we are not doing the information studies, I insist, and the environmental impact report – we will execute the jobs and buy the trains – in this case, we are thinking of four plus one, trains to operate this tram train – between 2022 and 2024 and, on 24, this is our planning, we want you already at the disposal of the citizens of Camp Tarragona. It will be fifteen stops and the pace frequency of Tarragona will be twenty minutes. Therefore, we are talking about an authentic revolution in public transport in these parts of the country. Our demand studies, this is new, demand studies tell us that they could have up to 2.5 million travellers in the year. Therefore, an important cipher takes into account the ciphers we usually handle in public transport to Camp Tarragona. A 20_per_cent will be internal demand. Therefore, its implantation is very justified. We believe that it is a smaller xifra people, we are absolutely convinced that it will also be a tourist engine in an area where other projects are to be added very relevant around the Recreational and Turistic Consortium. In the same way that I gave the principle, that the Mediterranean Corridor bet has been and will always be indisputable on the part of our department, it is also the need that, beyond these great infrastructures, we can give a good service to the economy and to the citizens of the country. We take advantage of what the inn means in operation of this variety of Vandellòs to also give a better service to the citizen with this train that must be a reality – many thanks for his inquiry – the year 2024. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.198.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the employment situation of members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[300-00242/12]] So let's move on to the next question, that the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Ferran Roquer on the employment situation of the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. When he wants to. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.199.0	Is there a government? [[The timer laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.200.0	There has been a government and the councillor has just entered, so forward, Congressman. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.201.0	He was beginning to say that he did two years that he was practically... that he did two years that you were in front of the Interior Council and that you inherited a council that I must say was full of shortcomings, both material and personal, as we have spoken on repeated occasions, both here and here, in this House, as in the same committee. And besides the heretic after the application of Article 155 of the Constitution on the Government of the Generality and, say, when the Mossos come from August 2017, from the point of perhaps more seniority in the sphere of their recognition both of the Catalan people and of international recognition, and it is found in the point of lower of a valley that, after the application of Article 155 and the intervention of the Cos de Mossos, this intervention took place on the body – I would say. It has not been easy and you too have heard it say that up to the charge for Sant Joan of the year 2018 and that the month of October of the same year 2018 they tank the box. But all this, for example, is performed by 96_percent of the General Directorate of Prevention, Fire Extinguishing and Rescue assumption. To make this question, I have gone over some interventions, both of them as other Members of this House or the Committee on the Interior, and, of course, now that it is still filmed or recorded or photographed, and, finally, here in Parliament, it is transcribed. And I found a transcript to an inquiry made by Congressman Joan Josep Nuet, on 12 September 2018, and I asked him an inquiry and you answered him and said to him: listen, look, I with the unions of Mossos have understood this, in such a other thing; such a thing I can not do because it turns out that they depend on the permission given to me by the State; such a thing depends on the Bureau of the Public Service of the Generality, etc., you gave him a series of explanations and the Lord Nuet said to him: "You know that this intervention is encumbered, eh? And that in a few days we can get the record back, I gave it to him, I gave it to him in the textuality. In view of the development of the events, I think that if we get it back today – in fact, I got it back – you might feel proud of what it was committed at that time, because it has fulfilled it. On different occasions you explained the negotiations, the state of negotiations with the Bomber Cos, with the Squad Mosses, and always did it with an air, in a positive and convinced sense that they would end well. The unions, on repeated occasions, have come to the door of Parliament in different acts of protest from the Mossos d'Esquadra, from the same Bombers. We have gathered all the parliamentary groups, and we have created a table in which the Interior Department, the Vice-President's Department and the Department of Public Administration were represented, to try to reach an agreement with the unions and representatives of the Interior Committee of this Parliament. And, as of May 2019, we have the first finding that his department is for the pact and up to an agreement with Bombers, which seems to be easy because it got there soon, but it's not easy, because it did thirteen years that there was no agreement with Bombers; thirteen years are too many years. Finally, in this agreement, it provided for the incorporation of a thousand new firefighters and, in fact, there was already between this new school and the calls that are on the way, the incorporation of 509 firefighters at this time. It is worth saying, Counselor, that with presuppositional prorogation, without a new assumption, making a great effort his department and the rest of the government departments, using the repositioning fee to create these places. You came up with an agreement with Bombers, but in the Interior Department there was another open conflict, there was an open conflict with the Squadron Mosses. A much more named collection than the Bombers collection, and that made me think that it would be much harder to reach an agreement, and more when union elections are contested, and, by court order, it's not the recount of votes and it's like a..., on the limbs, the union representation of the body. In this same intervention, in this very question made by the Deputy Nuet, he told him that the public order is the responsibility of the Government of the Generality, that in a democracy it is a guarantee of rights and freedoms, and that the police must guarantee all rights, such as that of assembly, demonstration or expression. And I also told him that in order to do this, you would have to deal with the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad He talked about the fifteen points that had brought him, the result of an agreement of all the unions on September 17, 2018. It was a joint proposal by all the unions, and he gave this place to the creation of the Mossos collection, which you, in the department, took as your own, and was the basis of this negotiation. I want to do a rest of these fifteen points that the unions would ask for so that you will explain to us later, in the agreement you signed with the unions of the Squadron's Cosos de Mosso, which way you have finished. They talked about the recovery of the cent_per_cent of wages in the case of a temporary incapacity for work. They were talking about the recovery of the extraordinary payments of 2013 and 2014, meaning damage to the additional hours held by antiquity. They also asked him to return to the situation that existed before 2012, for which he made the rules of the days of personal affairs, which he had to ascend to nine days for a full year. They asked him for the pay of the productivity supplement, and, while exceeding the capacity of the Department of Interior, they also asked him for the recovery of the social welfare fund. In his department he gave a strange circumstance, and it was that the Mosso d'Esquadra collected at a higher price the extraordinary hour than the normal hour, because the extraordinary hour had not moved the price, and the normal one had suffered successes increments. It was a lawsuit that the unions made and a lawsuit that I think they were all right, let me go. They asked for a career plan for the civic security professionals, but having a career goal helps a lot to do the job better, and knowing what the plan is, what are the advantages that you will bring to it, makes a significant contribution to it. They asked him for compensation for work and holiday days applying multiplier coefficients. They asked him for the remuneration of the staff of special units of the Mossos d'Esquadra, an agreement that came from 2008, that 2011 is suspicious of the payment of the fourth tram, that 2017, comes to an agreement with the Mossos, comes to an agreement with the trade unions of Mossos by virtue of which, when a new assumption is adopted, it would pay this increment of the fourth tram. There hasn't been an approved statement yet. Does the 2020 Preliminary Draft Presuppositions foresee this payment, Counselor? They asked him to pay for the Now device. They asked him to be part of the Civil Service Bureau, which, inexplicably, the Squadron Mosses are not present. The Board of Security of Catalonia, of the year 2006, quantified the number of movements that there were to be in Catalonia in 18,267. This cup has never sunk. In the convocations that are in force it will settle down. They asked him to keep this cup. And they asked him something that seemed inexhaustible; they asked him for the possibility of early retirement at sixty years or fifty-nine if they were thirty-five years of service. Recently they have reached an agreement; they have reached an agreement that..., of which we have read expressions such as: « The Department of Interior and the trade union organizations we have reached an agreement at the last meeting held today 19th February..., after almost two years of negotiation, has reached an agreement that, from the Autonomous Police Union, we consider historical. To what extent does this agreement solve the fifteen points that were the historical demand of the collection? To what extent does this agreement improve the security of Catalans? And to what extent, in the 2020 Project of Presuppositions, are these expenses foreseen? Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.202.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the inside counselor's word, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.203.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Allow me to apologize because I arrived late, MP, at the beginning of his inquiry, basically because I was told by an outsider that two firefighters, two firefighters from the Generality of Catalonia's Cos, died, died in Georgia, in a way they had. But, well, in any case, accompany in the feeling their families, their park companions of the region of Emergencies and the general collection of the Bomber Cos, for these two evil dead. So, excuses for starting late because... there's a third person, for the information I have, he's not a bomber, but he's also a catalan who died in this accident, and also accompany the family of the deceased in the feeling. If we focus on the inquiry, you've recovered a record of some of the times that we've talked about a little more than a year and a half ago, here, you respect the working conditions of the workers and you respect the Cos de Mossos, you respect the Cos de Bombers, don't you? And I've always shown them confidence, haven't I? ; trust in us. Why? So why did we have the conviction that we would reach a work agreement, because we had the conviction that we would all get over it... you listed it, didn't you? : 155, the employment situation of the years of economic adversity, etc. But we had confidence in ourselves, and we still do, don't we? In one of our generations, eh? When I speak in the first person of the plural, « we are not « we are not « the political team, only I am talking about the different bodies, the Cos de Bombers, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. I am also talking about trade union representatives; in this, too, there are 22,000 Catalans and Catalans who are dedicated to sailing for our security, for our emergencies. And this one of us, one of our generations, is the one who has overcome all the challenges that we have encountered at the length of these divided months and we will continue to overcome in the next months until this legislature lasts. I know it's an atypical position – I know it's an atypical position – and I remember how in a show I had just asked them for confidence; I said to them: "The only one we need is time. We need time to complete each and every challenge we find ourselves, don't we? And time... and I'm not saying it in a funny way, because we have a lot of work to do, because we come from a lot of time, but time is giving us reason: that this confidence in ourselves, this willingness to work to trap a very adverse situation, including critical, that we found ourselves in the security and emerging system of this country..., so we're giving it the turn and we're placing ourselves in a situation of greater ease so that we can have the security and emerging system that this country has, as well as the professional quality of all of these 20,000, 22,000 professionals who work in security. Leave'mfer a little calendar. We enter the June, as you said, of the year 2018. At that time there were some labor negotiations of the Cos de Bombers, of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, that were on the march, that came from previous times, and in September the Platform MosSOS presents to us a trading platform of fifteen points, as you said. And we say, "If this is the bargaining platform..., why all the unions that are part of the Police Council accept it as the trading platform and propose it to the department..., in ours and, from here, start the negotiations, if it is true that the month of March 19th there were elections in the squadron unions and we decided to stop the negotiations..., then there were judicial challenges and that the negotiations were held until approximately September, that September we decided that, after six-months of prudent time to wait for the resolution of the representatives of the squadrons, who were the representatives of the trade unions, that we were the representatives of the trade unions, so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much so much as the trade union representatives. Okay? So, September 19th, we're re-establishing negotiations and February 2020, just last month, we're getting to this pre-agree. Let 'em emphasize that surely what is most important of this pre-agreement, surely what is most important, are neither the better jobs nor the better conditions nor an agreement, but the vast majority that sign this agreement. I think that's why it's most important, that practically all unions, practically all unions representing the Squad Ways, agree, with this agreement, and that's positive, because it's not an agreement signed with some or others, it's an agreement signed practically with everyone. Regarding the points – there were fifteen points, the trading platform sifted it in fifteen points, as you said – I said to them there..., one by one, as you asked me, I went to contest it. With regard to the equipping of other interior objects, which is a problem that has been solved since the year 2018, it is solved. And in the presupposition, we hope to approve it this March, the presupposition of the year 2020, so it will compliment this demand. With regard to compensation, we have a compensation agreement for working twelve hours or more in the end of the week. With regard to the external payments, you know that on 11 September 18th there was an agreement at the return desk of the external payments from 13th and 14th to the entire collection of officials of the Generalitat de Catalunya, not only on the move but all the officials and officials. With respect to personal matters, which is a condition that had been lost as a result of economic adversity, it is also to recover the situation before taking this decision to withdraw the rights that the workers of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra had made. Regarding the recovery of temporary disability, there is also an agreement, it recovers the 100_per_cent, and it is sunk also..., it is an agreement sunk at the General Bureau of Public Service. With regard to the social background – they don't say the FAS, do they? –, passes through a general implementation agreement also to all Generality workers. So, there was... I, when I explained in that inquiry that there were things that fell from the Interior Department and there were things or requests that fell from other departments, or from the Generality itself, or even from some other Administration..., so this was one more of those that fell not only from the Interior Department but, in this case, from a general agreement for all workers. Regarding the payment of a device that 155 did not want to pay – it was managed by 155..., one of the winnings that subtended 155 to us was not to pay a device –, the Now device, was paid the December 2018. Early retirement is one of the most important points of this agreement, it is true. But here we have four goals, with this retirement. First, we equip ourselves with other police units in the Spanish State; local police, the Ertzaintza, the Navarra Police Force have this agreement. We didn't have him, and the Squad Squad Squad is no less than anyone. Therefore, we have come to this agreement; therefore, we equip ourselves there. Two, we rejoin the body, which is very important, and one more safety thing. Three, we avoid that with the second activity it loses operation. When a police officer asks or enters the second activity, you lose an agent in the street, to hear us, to do another job, and that means we have fewer agents in the street, and that worries us. Therefore, with the early retirement agreement, we reduce it. And there is also a topic of economic education, which will cost us money from the outset, but for the Government of Catalonia and for the whole of this country there is also a topic of education. Regarding the lack of effect, you know that we have made two promotions; we have made 1,500 moves in seven months, practically. You remember this picture that I taught you all just a year ago. Of all the promotions there was... the promotion void, for many years there wasn't. This is the promotion we found ourselves doing; these two darkest reds are the ones we've made this legislature, and I predict we'll have them for two years. The same goes for Bombers, because we've made 1,500 moves, but we've also made five hundred bombers. With regard to the price of foreign hours, we have reached an agreement: they will pay as they normally do, and obviously, over what is the price of the ordinary hour. With regard to the harmonization of quadrants, there is an agreement. There were some concrete units that had a few quadrants different from the vast majority. We've come to this agreement. With regard to the addition of productivity, we have an agreement of the General Committee on 11 December. With regard to the career plan of the Citizen Security Unit, there is also an agreement; there is a compromise that the Police Council will all just now start doing some work because as it was very late in a year, in 365 days, we have the conclusions to draw forward this career plan for the Citizen Security Unit. With regard to the compensation of nests and festivals, there is also an agreement with the import. And in the 15th place, which is the Public Service Bureau, we commit ourselves to push as much as we can to ensure that the Squadre Mosso Cos can also be at the Public Service Bureau. So, we came from where we came from; we came from a premise of the year 2017, we came from 155, and the result would be this: 1,500 square moves in divided_months, labor agreement in divided_months, investments in divided_months, a assumption for 2020 hopeful, which does not give the solution to everything – I told you, on the 9th I introduced it – but it does help us to take a step further. And, therefore, what we can say is that, after the passage through the interior of the people we are facing, we are living to solve a tremendously adverse situation in which the security system has been put into crisis. Therefore, we are in the lives of solving this security system. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-04-5001.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. One of the objectives of the Equality Platform of the Parliament of Catalonia is to incorporate the gender perspective in the management of the uses of time. And today I have to inform you that, after the agreement reached at the Bureau last day, we managed to finish the plenary before seven o'clock in the afternoon. We're looking to stay on this line. Thank you very much. They suspect the session.
