ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[General debate on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia (continuation)]] [[255-00010/12]] We shall then proceed to the debate on the motions for resolutions following the general debate on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia. At the end of the debate, we shall vote on the motions for resolutions. To defend these proposals, there is a turn of intervention for a maximum of two minutes per parliamentary group, and five for subgroups. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.2.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. Good morning also to the audience that accompanies us, among which today we do not see classics of this stage, such as Mrs Borràs, Mr Syndic, Mr Expressor Artur Mas. Perhaps it is because today we celebrate, just today that the Pujol go back to a court to declare..., we celebrate the second act of this Plenary proposed by Citizens, to fight against corruption and bad practices in the exercise of public service. In the previous debate, my partner, Lorena Roldán made a wonderful account of what was and what is being corruption in Catalonia, starting from a fact that I think is remembered by all who have followed Catalan politics. That phrase that the expression Maragall addressed to the Convergence bench, saying to him: "You have a problem, which is called 3_per_cent. And at that time, the truth that..., the analyses came to what Convergence was, to what was the plot of 3_per_cent. But I believe that there is something that is very relevant, because, when Mr Maragall sentenced it with that sentence, at the moment he withdrew it; he withdrew the accusation immediately. And I believe this suggests that in Catalonia there was no one willing to fight corruption in a real way. Because the reality is that the two parties that have ruled Catalonia, the two parties that have ruled Catalonia split the looting of institutions. While some were looting us from the Generalitat, others were looting us from the city halls. And believe me, I know what I'm saying, because as a neighbour of Santa Coloma, epicenter of the Pretoria case, I have seen very well what corruption meant. Thus, in this logic of not doing harm, the parties functioned as a cartel, which divided the territories and institutions. And here I mean both the ERE..., the PSOE of the EREs in Andalusia ; as well as the People's Party of the Gürtel, as well as the Convergence of 3_per_cent. In the years when Prenafeta, Alavedra, Pujol or in the « socialist achiever, Luigi, were deputies of this Parliament, I think they were more afraid of the corridors of this Parliament, than the Chicago of the 1920s. [[Some applause.]] But the unfortunate thing is that many of these practices, many of these practices, are still alive. We saw it in data released by the vice president herself, referring to the last barometer of the Anti-Fraud Office, where more than 72_per_cent of Catalans consider that in Catalonia there is a lot or a lot of corruption. Data given by the Vice-President, as if referring to third parties, as if it were not with them, ignoring that, precisely these data have increased during the years of his Government. This perception has increased during the years of his Government. And look, the truth is that we consider that we have to take real action to fight corruption, because today we could tell you, paraphrasing Maragall, that you continue to have a problem that is called 3_per_cent. Because, as much as you change on behalf of your party, you reject this administration as people against open causes. You still have a problem with corruption, when we see cases like that of Laura Borràs and the Institut de les Lletres Catalanes; that lady who told us to read El Quixote – today we tell her that she better read the Penal Code, because she will need it. [[Some applause.]] You have a problem with all the scandals that arise from the theft of personal data; you have a problem when you keep and protect a syndic investigated by corruption; you have a problem, when there are sentences that say that you have embezzled public funds to give a coup d'état; you have a problem with the waste of public money, as we have seen in these budgets; you also have a problem with Mr Gerard Figueras's double investigation. You also have a problem, as we have seen, as a result of what is being discovered in that investigation, when you call each other, to place someone, for all you knew. And Republican Left, which the other day was coming out here, right, Mr. Bosch, as if this were not with you, also has a problem, because it is also part of this government, and because it is the party with the most investigated sitting in its seat in this chamber. You, in short, still have a problem with corruption. But I think the real problem is with the Catalans with their government. And in the face of this problem, let me come today to some solutions; in the face of this problem, let me go to the proposal today. From Citizens, we have tabled, we have proposed this full fight against corruption, and in addition, we have tabled ten motions for resolutions, with more than sixty agreements, among which we call for, for example, the abolition of the privilege of suffocation; for speeding up mechanisms to protect whistleblowers from corruption; for strengthening mechanisms to pursue the illegal financing of parties; for comprehensive reforms of the Administration to review internal processes, to end plugging, to be able to properly monitor subsidies; for improving transparency, because transparency is one of the best antidotes against corruption. And finally, let those investigated for corruption leave their seat and go home. Just as you have to go home, so must the syndic, investigated for corruption, for which we also put forward a motion for a resolution in this regard. Proposals we make, I tell you honestly, with little hope that you will vote for them for us, but yes, with all the push and with all the desire to show the Catalans that there is a way, that there is a way different from that which you have shown us so far. Because look, we have no hope that you, who in your transitional laws were asking to choose the judges by finger, will now bet on suppressing the privilege of strangulation. Nor that you now go to bet decisively on transparency, when you constantly block from us all the appearances that we ask, when there are corruption investigators, who have positions in this government, and we ask you to come face-to-face. Nor do we believe that you reduce neither the plugs, nor the waste, nor all the chiringuites, because it is your only way to keep yourself in power. And neither do we believe that you are going to ask the investigated to go home, when today you will have investigated voting for them from these seats, and when you have already gone further; it is no longer that the investigated go home, since you keep even the disabled, sitting in this Parliament. And look, and I'm sure that..., if you vote for something today, what you're going to do is not comply with it; as we did when we tabled the anti-corruption motion a few months ago, in which this Parliament said that you would get involved in cases of corruption that had affected the public heritage, and then you would tell us in the compliance report that you weren't going to do it. I think it is shameful that the Catalans see how you do not use public resources to persecute the corrupt, but, instead, you do have to see how you pay for Mr Torra's legal defense for your actions, with the support of the Socialist Party. I think that's embarrassing. On the proposals of the other groups, we note some lines of agreement, mainly with the other opposition parties. And about those you present, for what we are going to tell you: on the one hand, that it is very good that you present them now, but apply the ones, which are for something the government. And on the other, I think they're superfluous measures. A practical example, look, this is as if you're getting the car's engine, and you paint the body. Surely the car looks nicer, but it will still not work. That is why we ask you, vote for the proposals of Citizens, so that the car really starts, and so that we can really clean up the corruption of the institutions of Catalonia. We, as I have said, have tabled ten motions for resolutions, with more than sixty agreements, but I must acknowledge – and end the recognition – that the best anti-corruption measure has recently been proposed by this government. Mr. Torra has announced that there will be elections in Catalonia in the near future. And I believe that the best measure we can offer Catalans to fight corruption is to send you to the opposition, as we did with the Socialist Party of ERW, in Andalusia. I believe that, if we are able to change their government, between what all those who will no longer have to plug in, and that we can implement the regeneration measures – as we propose today, which Citizens propose – we will really be on the right path to regenerate our institutions, to pursue the diligence and transparency that public exercise deserves, and until that moment, we will continue to work. Beyond the speeches, the bright panel will say today who is determined to fight corruption, and who wants to keep covering it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.3.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of Congresswoman Rosa María Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.4.0	Thank you, President. In his intervention in the debate of this House, Mr Terrades said – and allow me to say that it was a decisive but respectful intervention, because institutional respect is not denied with the solvency of arguments and with the power to defend them, even though some seem to be oblivious sometimes. He said, therefore, MP Terrades in his intervention that corruption has a dissolving character for democracy. And, at the same time, a particularly low democracy turns out to be field-subscribed because corruption is field-wide. Therefore, a circle of democratic and public decomposition, which ended up taking advantage of some. Indeed, corruption poses a difficult threat to the stability and security of societies, in order to undermine the institutions and values of democracy, ethics and justice and to compromise sustainable development and the rule of law. There are international treaties, there are international and national laws. Therefore, a clean standard on corruption and also institutions that are dedicated to preventing it from being produced. And in Parliament, various proposals and motions have also been discussed on this subject. In the next four years – we also said – two commissions on corruption and tax fraud have been created, in which conclusions and recommendations have been approved. At this time we are dealing with the proposal for a comprehensive protection law for alerters, that is, of those people who can report possible corruption in the field of Administration and who understand that we must protect them before possible reprisals. Therefore, awareness of all pleas, of the need to fight corruption, adopting measures ranging from scrupulous transparency to a more accurate regulation of public procurement. Therefore, measures to be applied both to the public sector and to the private sector, because both of them confluence on many occasions. Today we are putting forward proposals to ensure that Parliament is committed to the need to regenerate public administration and fight corruption, which is a political and social obligation. We agree to make concrete proposals that improve transparency and avoid practices and attitudes that undermine the confidence of citizens in institutions. And in this sense, we understand that if we move towards a more professional, capable and independent public administration we will walk towards a non-corruption goal. Likewise, we believe that it is important to clearly delineate between public, political and technical administration, without interference between them, as well as the professionalism and stability of the places of work, which avoid tensions or even tempts to those who develop their work in public office. We also believe that there should be a reform of the public sector; a reform that would mean, on the one hand, a new law on the organization of the Administration of the Generality, that would reorganize and simplify the structure of the public sector, putting at the centre the better of governance, the quality of the provision of public services and that would guarantee balance and social, territorial and intergenerational equity. And, on the other hand, a new law on public service which, for us, must be drawn up with the dialogue and with the consent of social workers and parliamentary groups, obviously, because we understand that in such important aspects and which affect citizenship in such a direct way, we cannot do anything other than with the maximum consent of all. And we also need to talk about improving the working conditions of public servants, stabilising work places, giving publicity and transparency access to public office. The professionalization of the executive direction of public entities, as well as the stricter regulation of incompatibilities. And as one of the most sensitive areas of corruption is that of public procurement, we think we need to strengthen its control. On the one hand, it strengthens the internal and external control bodies of the Administration of the Generality, providing them with the resources and means appropriate to the functions they have in charge and, on the other hand, it strengthens control over the contract and public subsidies. And, in this sense, we consider transparency and public dissemination essential in all tendering and award procedures. And we offer you a series of points that we believe you need to hold the bidding process, precisely to ensure free competition and to avoid irregular practices. So, we're putting in place the restriction on the use of extraordinary procedures, such as emergency procedures. It also strengthens transparency by facilitating the publication of all formalised contracts and ensures the highest possible clarity in the criteria for the valuation of offers. And respect the private business activity related to the public sector, we propose that the private parties that contract with the Administration make public, through their websites, contracts, agreements and grants obtained. So those companies, entities and institutions where their resources come mostly from the public sector adapt their processes to the Law on Public Sector Contracts. All the way – we say – not to leave locks through which corrupt practices can be produced. But, in the case that these practices are produced, when they are prosecuted, it must be – we understand – the very Government of the Generality that must compare it to the particular accusation. But beyond the proper functioning of the Administration, the need for separation between the public and the private, the band of the maximum transparency of the public procurement processes, the band of the need to articulate all the mechanisms of effective control over the action of the Administration and of all public bodies, there are other areas that need to be observed also from the ethics that is consubstantial to non-corruption. We are talking about public communication media, which must respond to the plurality of Catalonia and which must respond to the principles of freedom of information and opinion. For our group, the consensus reached at the time of the creation of the public media of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans a few years ago that broke down. There are many Catalans and Catalans who don't feel the Catalan public media as they do. We are the masses who feel these media as instruments of agitation and propaganda for the sake of a certain political idea. Especially difficult seems to us the treatment of the figure of the former president Jordi Pujol have made the public media of the corporation, without programming any specific content on the cases of political corruption, fraud and evasion of taxes that are motivating judicial proceedings that affect Mr Pujol. And, in this sense, we propose that you take the measures so that this is not repeated, so that public service means, public communication means, complete your function as public service and information rigour throughout your programming and, obviously, also do so when you do the treatment of Mr Pujol's figure. Finally, if we analyze the proposals that we have put forward by the different political groups, we can conclude that we share the objective: the need to eliminate the corrupt practices of the public sphere; that we share in good measure the mechanisms to achieve it – analyzing the different proposals that we have put forward, many converge in the media to achieve it – and, therefore, the only one that remains is to implement the measures that we are adopting. To do so, it will be necessary to harmonise all the measures that we have put forward and that this harmonisation is done with a legislative instrument that approves this very Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.6.0	Good morning. That citizens have lost confidence in their political representatives and institutions, they do not see us again and they do not lack reason. Often we find ourselves in communication media news about cases with party connections or those interested in benefiting from the usual, corruption cases. And in this we have had real champions in our country. The Popular Party, absolutely in corruption: if I say Arena, Baltar, Bankia, Cemetery, Fabra, Gürtel, Kitchen, Noos [[remorse of the voice]] , Reading, Punic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.7.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.8.0	Pokémon, Palma Arena, what do you see in the head? Popular Party. And we could still continue with this running gag that we have repeated on various occasions and in various forums and parliaments. But in Catalonia we have also had our champion ranks in corruption. Convergence, for one band; Union, for the other; Convergence and Union together, three_per_cent or five_per_cent, illegal financing, favors, traffic of influences, embezzlements..., and, obviously, the President of the Government of Catalonia, Jordi Pujol, who casually the last time we saw him in our public communication media has been talking about international cooperation. He could have talked to us, surely, about how he cooperated personally with Andorra. Corruption is the element that weakens the most basic principles of democracy and puts us at the same level at the same level as the political representation in the eyes of the citizenry, unjustly, but we have to assume that. And, therefore, the only way to generate real and necessary trust among one another and, especially, from citizenship to institutions and their political representation is to respond courageously to the challenge of aggressively attacking corruption and, therefore, to return all politics on the part of all political representation to exemplary, integral and transparent actions. We don't think the best way to help this is either to turn the issue of corruption into a pim-pam-pum – and this is what I dedicate to the group that has provoked this debate, in Ciutadans – by constantly making the bar of corruption themes, in this clever way that you do, with the political situation of the country's process theme. Don't help, don't help, don't help, don't help, don't help, don't help, Corruption is a very difficult issue – I think you share it – as we approach it as it is, without trying to make its usual barriers, as well as processions. We wanted to take advantage of this House to present a battery of proposals for resolutions that want to tackle the problem of the corruption of the environment, providing us with tools and processes that have to do with integrity, with transparency, with good governance, with control and detection and evaluation, and with sanctioning, if necessary, practical evils in the field of governance and the performance of the public sector of the Generality. We have therefore made a package of proposals for a global resolution in favour of transparency, good governance and integrity in three levels: Catalonia, the local world and also the State. At the level of Catalonia, our proposals are, to begin with, involving all actors. We believe it is important to involve society in the fight against corruption. This is why we start with proposals for a national anti-corruption pact involving political parties, unions, employers, entities, local worlds, control bodies – such as the Union of Accounts, the Anti-Fraud Office. The objective: to improve transparency, integrity, the open government of the Administration and to propose legislative changes that may be needed to complete these objectives. It also addresses the revolving doors and the feeling of complicity between the most powerful sectors of our society and politics. It is one of the essential elements of mistrust, respect for policy and institutions, and an absolutely condemnable practice. Therefore, we need to do, we need to strengthen and expand the system of incompatibilities because the members of government and all the rest of the other branches of the Administration cannot serve private entities that have been affected by decisions where they have participated while they have been in the Administration or related, in fact, to their public management. Political parties and political representatives must also be exemplary in their actions, and political parties must also be exemplary in their financing. In this sense, we understand that it is necessary to establish and promote an ethical code of the mandatory elected bodies, with a supervisory body and with a sanctioning regime in the event of a failure. And also ensure more transparency and limitation of the debt and electoral expenses of the parties. To establish a financing system based on public contributions and contributions from militants or sympathizers, and so on. These are important and urgent measures to implement. As for the lobby – these actors who also intervene in legislative processes and who have contact with governments and parties – we can ensure that they act transparently and that they know who they influence and who they are. It is important that it exists, but with absolute transparency towards the citizenry. In this sense, we propose to give knowledge of the traceability of public decisions, while publishing the expedients of decisions and contacts made with lobbyists in the most detailed way possible, and also extending information on these lobbyists themselves, on their funding and on their objectives. Also, to pursue corruption with someone I denounced. And, therefore, we need to put the batteries in order to speed up the alarm law and protect whistleblowers in cases of corruption. We need a public contract and acknowledgment of grants out of the question. Therefore, it is necessary to separate the corruptors – and not to separate them – from public activity, public life and the administration sector, and to advertise and be transparent in public contracts. The Administration's control bodies – the Union of Accounts, the Anti-Fraud Office and those that follow – must have enough resources to carry out their work. And, therefore, we must also be reinforcing in means and resources, and independence and autonomy, these control bodies. And, despite the fact that we believe that it needs to be reformed, in order to further guarantee the right of all people to public information, the law we have, in the meantime and while we do not strengthen it, we also have all the means to ensure that, at least, it has already approved – the law of transparency that we have in force – is complete. Regarding the local world, we believe that the gatherings are an active element in the fight against corruption. More than 90_percent of municipalities have measures to ensure transparency and good governance. Therefore, as the Generality coordinates and drives these actions so that there is no shadow of doubt, nor of this first half of the Administration. But now, too, I have the resources to be able to make this task better. And, above all, to be able to implement the Law of Transparency, which cannot be done because there is not enough support from the Generality. The Generality also has to be a democratic regeneration actor in the State. And, therefore, in this sense we also propose elements in the land of the State. We propose that we ask the State to limit political outages, to modify the Criminal Code as regards funding political parties and to extend the prescription terms, among others, also reinforcing the fight against cartels in the public contract. To advance them that we will support the motions for resolutions presented for the CUP and the Socialist Group. We believe that they are a good example of complementary measures which we have also raised, in some cases in creuades, of the margin we have of action. About Ciutadans' proposals, as I was saying, it's funny that... in fact, when we're talking about corruption a lot we're often much more in agreement than it might seem. But in many of their resolutions, they end up creating and sweeping the process and impregnating it all, and they make this barrage of grills with merinas, which makes it difficult for us to approve these resolutions, even though some good anti-corruption measures are in place. And for what it does to the proposals presented jointly for the groups of the Government – Together for Catalonia and Esquerra –, therefore, look, in some distil·lens you will be able to pass the tranangle of the Ple and complete the dispatch; light, to say so, solve too much light. And in these we cannot give them our affirmative vote. In those who have really put up with ambitious measures, they will find us there. Even some of us have come to deal with our resolutions. And a special mention to the presentations for the champions of corruption; he said it from an early age: not only the People's Party, but also the heretics of Convergence, which, frankly, would make it very difficult to start voting for them in favour of any proposed fight against corruption. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.10.0	Good morning, all of you. At the CUP, when we asked ourselves this monographic ple on corruption, the first one that moved us was to review all the work we knew that especially the groups of the CUP, of the CUP - Constituent Creed, we had done in this chamber and in the two commissions on the topic that were celebrated. And it is this feeling that moves our two motions for resolutions, because we understand that in these two motions for resolutions there are those questions that are fundamental. Because we want to make it very clear: this Parliament has adopted hundreds of anti-corruption measures, hundreds of measures, some of which come back to propose some groups in their resolution proposals; indeed, many. And then this question causes this House to be, as the deputy of the commons has said now, a transitory sea. Mirin, that Ciutadans proposed in an interested way a ple against corruption, so we all know. Now, don't take advantage of this occasion... First of all, from the CUP we take advantage of it to remember: from all the questions that have been approved in this Parliament, especially those controlling corruption in public institutions, there has been no – cape –, neither in the previous legislature nor in this one. And that, from my point of view, is neither the fault of Spain stealing from us, nor of 155, nor of the many other excuses that we often have on the table. But, Lords of Ciutadans, do not be mistaken: that this government does not do its work in the fight against corruption and all those measures approved in this House does not mean that independence remains corrupt. The deputy Maria Sirvent made a very clear statement regarding the systemic origin of corruption, from a perspective of the capitalist system, and also from the perspective of the Franco regime and of the heritage, from one of the main heresies that the Franco regime pursues on the new democratic rule or the 78 rule. Corruption has become a central and central element of the autonomic period following the Franco dictatorship, a model of elitist, opaque and patriotic management. The masters of the common good have established themselves and continue on many occasions established in the institutions. And that is why we claim that on 9 September 2015 the Social Pact against Corruption was approved in this Parliament. This pact was not only signed by all groups – except, of course, by the PP – but by a score of entities representing civil society. By means of this pact, a number of measures and the creation of certain control bodies were approved to ensure its development. These control bodies have only been created, as always, to rely on the citizenry, on the people, on the entities involved, on the entities that serve the common good; but the rest of the entities and bodies have not been created. And that's why we think we need to deploy the rest of the mechanisms. And that's why, from the start, we say that thirty days from now, if this young man approves, he's celebrating the summit against corruption in Catalonia. That's why we ask the government, the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia if they will support the two CUP resolution proposals. Many sensillas, very clear, questions that have already been approved in this chamber with large majority. We wouldn't understand that there's no support. On one side, the first edition of the summit against corruption in Catalonia, and on the other, to deploy in the maximum period of sixty days the Catalan Mechanism of Prevention and Fight against Corruption and Frau, a mechanism that must have the function of coordinating and ensuring interoperability between the anti-corruption prosecution of Catalonia, the Mossos, the Anti-Fraud Office, the Account Union, the Greuges Syndicate and the rest of the entities that can make a task in this sense. They are very simple, essential, consumable proposals, which generate consensus, which this chamber has already approved, and we would not understand from the point of view that there is no support. We add: we, the rest of the motions for resolutions, as we did at the time, will support most of them. What we will not do is give support to some of the proposals put forward by the most corrupt party in Europe – it has already been set up – or to all those that Ciutadans put forward in an instrumental way, which try to block independence with corruption. I ended up remembering what already reminded them yesterday, now that the leaders of Ciutadans, Mrs. Roldán, Mr. Carrizosa: you fill your mouth with corruption, but they have no way of saving the furniture of their electoral frail going on an electoral list with the People's Party. So his credibility is zero. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.12.0	Thank you. MPs, MPs, advisors..., let's see, corruption in the end acts as a perfect breeding ground for populism of magical solutions and impossible dreams– of this in Catalonia we know a little bit – which in the end, sooner or later, ends up laying the foundations of tyranny. And that happens in all parts of the world, but we are particularly concerned, at least the People's Party, in those places and in those countries that have cost many years of history to establish the foundations of a modern liberal democracy. And that's why we're worried and we're dealing with corruption. Among other things, because we are not here to point out who is the champion of corruption or stop being it. You know a lot, we don't know who the champion of corruption is in Europe, but of course in Catalonia we know who it is, and despite that we ask you to react – to react. We didn't criminalize him. What a reaction. Having said that, we have an opportunity through this debate, through the two committees that have been made in this Parliament and that have worked to establish measures that the Government has finally decided not to implement, to overcome that situation and, at the same time and at the same time as cases of corruption arise of current members of Convergence who are in political exercise, because they try to turn the situation around. We said we would have a serious debate; I think we did, or at least tried. We said that we would present proposals and solutions, which are certainly not definitive, but are always dissuasive and feasible to implement. And we said that we would denounce if at some point the Government were to enter this phase of posture, to announce, as the other day, the twenty-five measures, to then commit to implement the two years later, right? And we have therefore proposed measures that we believe can help combat corruption in Catalonia, doing so with the cooperation of other entities and other administrations, such as the Government of Spain, and the implementation of our European regulatory framework. First of all, we bet on greater political determination, don't we? , what we talked about before: it is useless to present twenty-five measures to be implemented in two years, when we have been dragging problems of lack of confidence in politics for cases of corruption for too many decades. Those second steps that we have put forward in our proposals are institutional strengthening, and we believe that they are important, that they are the creation of the office of conflict of interest, and that it is the prohibition that people who have interests in companies, up to 5 per cent participation, participate directly or indirectly in the public sector. [[Widow's remorse.]] I know that there are some parties that do not want to support it, but it is that this comes even in the very code of ethics that was approved here in this Parliament and that pushed the same government that now that it is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.13.0	One moment, one moment, Congresswoman. They ask the deputy and deputy silences, because they don't have to be easy people to follow a speech with all this noise. So, give them a little more silence, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.14.0	Well, and also, with this institutional strengthening, we've also put forward a proposal..., transparency law. True, we do, but make the full regulation, that I think it's important; that it's not worth us with the GAIP alone. We also proposed improvements in the oversight bodies; we believe that this is important. Here again we have the director of the Anti-Fraud Office; they ask us for means, and it can be done perfectly. And also control in public spending and contracting, which in the end is, let's say, the tool through which corruption is articulated. Those are our proposals. You will decide whether to support them or not. So it seems very sectarian to me, doesn't it? What the representative of En Comú Pomera said, that they are not going to support..., and it makes it difficult for them to vote. On the other hand, negotiating budgets does not cost them anything at all. We are not going to support, of course, all those proposals that refer to mental frameworks that we do not share. One: judicial institutions function reasonably well, are independent, are professional, are technical and not politicized. That you do not like the sentences you give, assuming the authorship of certain facts, as in the case of Mr Torra and his disqualification, will certainly not cause us to buy his speech. Nor are we going to buy the catastrophic discourse of widespread institutional corruption and all the issues that go hand in hand with such approaches. The ones that are propositions, of course, yes. And, look, I'm gonna tell you one thing. We have always asked the Government for commitment; commitment and efficiency. He's not doing it. And I'm going to move an appointment that I know is a bit harsh, but that can be used to push them: "If you want to defeat corruption, you must be ready to send your friends and family to jail. I know it's very hard, but that's what political determination, non-partisanism and the defense of the common good are all about.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Jordi Orobtig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.16.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Advisers, advisers, Members, Members, today we present the assessment of the proposals for the resolution of the different parliamentary groups in relation to the general debate on systemic and institutionalised structural corruption in Catalonia, promoted by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. They will allow me a previa, and it is to tell them that I find very unfortunate the name that was given for the group proposing to this monogrample. If you're allowed, I'd say you have a discriminatory component, if not supremacist. Man could understand that the fact that Catalonia exists, as it is said, a systemic, institutional and institutional structural corruption means that Catalonia is a corrupt society, before others are not, and there is no indicator that validates this statement. It would seem, too, by the speeches of the promoters of the debate, that corruption is a thing of those who only feel Catalan and do not affect those who feel Spanish at the same time as Catalan. And, beyond supremacist and insulting, this speech is worryingly stigmatizing, as much as all Italians are mobsters, and so many other topics. It contributes to this discriminatory or almost xenophobic view of the question that Ciutan only poses this hypothetical bell'ligence with corruption in Catalonia, when it is not inconvenient to agree or, directly, offer to present itself in coalition with parties condemned for corruption in different Spanish regional governments, without the imposition of any preconditions in this area. In fact, man could think that it is the same principle of discrimination that the Court of Auditors leads to pursue independence policies with the aim of seeking his civil and property death and omitting his right and prerogatives before escandating as that of the sale of a very important part of the public housing park of the Community of Madrid in return, which featured the mayor of Madrid, Mrs Ana Botella. That said, and addressing the issue before us, I would like to highlight first of all the difficulty, read all the motions for resolutions, to bring new measures in an area that has been, as has already been said, subject to extensive analysis in this Parliament, in formats such as motions, commissions of inquiry or study, and even amendments to the Rules. The cost, therefore, of the range of proposals, is to sort out what are genuinely constructive, positive and effective measures, of those who are voluntary, are already being implemented or are directly postureg. And, in this sense, some parliamentary groups have had the decency not to exhaust the number of proposals that correspond to them; others, especially the promoter of this debate, have done what they usually do, postureig; it is to say, more than format, much image and little content. For what we have done to our parliamentary group, we have focused on a band, on shielding, like a parliamentary mandate, the measures that the 20th generation announced by the Government, that is, the twenty-five measures to be implemented in the next two years and involving a strategy of fighting corruption. Some of these actions highlight a new system of protection of alerting persons in cases of corruption, with a hundred_per_cent anonymity; collaboration between the tax agency and the Mossos to detect cases of corruption; the formation of the Mossos d'Esquadra in the fight against corruption, and more transparency, which passes through the publication of public agendas of senior technical personnel, as well as the establishment of processes for the selection of personnel based on merit and ability. Just as many other measures, with greater or lesser intensity, help to minimize the risk of corrupt conduct, which unfortunately does not eliminate. Already dealing with the structurals we propose, we also want to lay down our political objectives. First of all, we want to call on the political forces to take a firm commitment against corruption; we call on the political parties to take transparency measures and fight against corruption if appropriate to the parties and also to the foundations that are linked to them. I think we empirically know all that it is a fact that many times has allowed irregular party financing or the collection of commissions by public works. I don't want to strain the environment any more by saying who or what, but we all know what we're talking about and who we're talking about. We also place all the parties represented in this chamber to promote an electoral law of Catalonia, which regulates the conflict of interests, the financing of campaigns and the reduction of their costs, and which protects the elected bodies before ideologically motivated judicial interference. An elected office can only lose its condition when there is a firm feeling on the part of a judicial body. And so we are enthusiastic about defending the presumption of innocence that was verbalized on behalf of the Government by Councillor Bosch, something that everyone says defends but that we always forget to address it to a political adversary. We want to promote a law of transparency of parties and foundations that establishes in a rule of equality the same obligations of transparency to party foundations and that condition access of those parties to public finance to change the submeter's anti-corruption protocols supervised by the Anti-Fraud Office. Our motions for resolutions also address the issue of taxation and the fight against tax evasion, establishing what should be the objective of taxation, fighting tax dumping as a public mechanism for tax evasion. We show our concern for the opacity and lack of copying of the Spanish Royal House and the impediments that the majority block of the Congress of Deputies or the same Constitutional Court, for which it does to this chamber, pose in the investigation of the tax practices of the Royal House. The inviolability that the Constitution of the Hereus of Francoism protected in 1978 gave the king the prerogative of inviolability, but that it is inviolable does not mean that it is uninvestigable in his parliament. The shame, if so, as citizens we pay taxes, we have all the right to make it pass, if they get out, that you also have the right to the presumption of innocence, man. We understand, therefore, that all members of the Government of the Generality, councillors, ex-advisors, presidents or expressionists, are obliged to give explanations for all those actions in the public and/or private sphere that may compromise the good name of the Catalan institutions. And this obligation, therefore, is also due to the failure to comply with tax obligations, and among them the tax evasion, even though it is concluded that the crime is prescribed, as we have recently acquired knowledge in the case of President Pujol. We will, therefore, gather the proposals for a resolution which question the suitability of these because they are the protagonists of programmes in the public media of our country, in accordance with their free will, in order to be the protagonists of programmes focused on solidarity among the people, when the conduct attributed to them questions solidarity with the citizens of their own people. We therefore urge the Government to demand from the Government the publication of persons admitted to the tax amnesty; with great support..., those included in this list, to carry out a tax inspection plan for all those who have been admitted to it, and to tax the possible signs of corruption that result, especially those linked to the Public Administration and the Royal House. We are calling for the repeal of the law that led to the social displacement of workers on October 2017; it is a corrupt rule that robs members and shareholders for the benefit of the council of administration of influenceable friends..., where their prosecutor of a company is rarely, anything more important. We urge the State Agency of the Tax Administration to work with the Catalonia Tax Agency to facilitate the data that allows us to detect the assets of Catalan taxpayers rooted in alienation. We want, therefore, to build an exemplary republic, where transparency and the fight against corruption prevail, with zero tolerance, and we understand that republican values are indispensable to make it possible. The system, in order to be credible, must be honest and transparent in all its powers, and the judiciary, in due course, suffers a crisis of very important credibility. We make a series of proposals, therefore, very comprehensive and comprehensive with the objective of correcting the ideological bias of the State's judicial dome, thus modifying the procedure for selecting the components of its power, depolitizing it, in the same way that the prosecution and other organs, in order to clean it up to European standards, in the same way that we show solidarity to the Vice-President of the Spanish Government for the entrepreneurial institutional declaration of the General Council of the Judiciary that seeks only to silence the critical voices with the authoritarian, repressive and anti-European derivation of the State's judicial dome. Agrair, in terms of the group of the commons, the group of the CUP, the group of the Socialists, the fact that it was intended to deal with us some of the points raised. And to say that we will vote on proposals from all groups, and that if some of us do not vote on them, it will not be because they are not uncertain only because we believe that those we have traded are more in line with that. I wouldn't want to end without saying, but, as my partner Bernat pointed out the first day of this debate, there are different types of corruption. The political struggle and the willingness to wear down the opponent makes us focus on the articulation of mechanisms to fight corruption in the political arena, but there are many other corruptions that we can avoid, such as collusion or cartel between companies that sub-managers of essential services to the detriment of competition, tax dumping and so many others. Finally, I would like to express a personal opinion but I believe that it can be shared by most of the present. For me, lords of Ciutadans, corruption in the political arena is the triumph of cowardice over honesty, the triumph of material esteem over an essential human value, more yet because it is a public server. But there are, I insist, other types of corruption, and one of them is moral corruption. According to the Organization of United Nations, between human values, more than honor, highlight other: sensitivities towards other people, using empathy; humility, accepting that we also have defects and that we can err and be part of a conflict; prudence, especially when we do not know the special circumstances of a case; respect, in particular for what it does to the face-to-face consideration of other people. Their ways of proceeding, in particular with regard to the treatment of persons who had been their companions in this plenary today in prison or exile, do not add to the human values I have expressed. I do not believe that they are sensitive to their situation or empathize with those who assume that they are separated from their children; I do not believe that they have ever recognized that they are guilty of the conflict, or that they are cautious in their statements, accusations and defamations which are generally and in particular, or that they show respect for people, and the following example we have taken at the end of the day with almost all their parliamentary group, almost all of them, who are criminal to the highest political authority in our country. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done, President. Man could think this is all about moral corruption. I won't be the one to say it. While I have a firm opinion of respect, I do respect your right to the presumption of innocence. The verdict, if it is called, will dictate the ballot box. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.18.0	Good morning, President. Advisers, Members and Members of Parliament and the public who followed us, we are at the last part of this monogram that on corruption has proposed the Citizens Group, and this last part serves to mark the position of vote and explain a little five are the arguments. What we are trying to do is explain what the criteria are for which we have decided and have positioned ourselves in the votes, and then we have put forward the motions for resolutions that we have put forward. And in this sense, we're going to do criteria and not, Mrs Ribas, we're going to sort out who's the one who's just proposing, because that's also a form of corruption, somehow, [[remorse of the voice]] sorting, sorting in the form of who it is, but the criteria that help prevent corruption. There are many forms of corruption, there are multiple forms of corruption. What we understand here is political corruption, institutional corruption, economic corruption, mainly. Surely many others, in this case, such as moral corruption, linguistic corruption... This will not go into this case; they are political corruption, institutional corruption and economic corruption. What are these corruptions? The ones I just told you. So they coincide with two factors: one is that they enjoy..., corrupt actors enjoy power, enjoy privileges, and the second factor is that they use this power and these privileges for the benefit of, and not the common good, which is why they enjoy this power and these privileges. That's what corruption is about. So, if we are clear on what corruption is, what is this use of power that a person has in principle directed to achieve a common good and, in change, use it for a good and a good benefit, if we are clear on these criteria, then what can we do to prevent corruption? So what we can do is look to obstruct this use of power for good, right? , to the object, which would be the common good. There are three ways, three attitudes, that allow us to intervene to avoid corruption: prevention, reporting and penalization, punishment and fighting this. Preventing and denouncing it is certainly the most important of us, the legislative power; I am sure that punishment and punishment are the function of the judiciary. Then we'll talk, that precisely one of the tasks that comes to prevent corruption, for this use of power for good, is precisely the division of powers. And if we don't take this into account, then we won't be doing well. The first of these functions that we can claim to avoid corruption is prevention, now, isn't it? , prevention, denunciation and penalization. Prevention, we think there are three ways to avoid it or to fight it, this corruption. The first is limiting the accumulation of power. The accumulation of power is one of the, say, proportional relationships with corruption: as more power accumulates, there is more corruption and more corruption is practiced. So what we need to achieve is to limit that power. In fact, liberal democracies are characterized by a basic fonament like that of dividing power, essentially dividing power and generating counterweights in power to avoid this, this accumulation of power. As more power there is more chance of corruption. In this sense, of course there has been corruption in Catalonia, of course there has been corruption in our country. And discordantly we can suspect that there will be corruption in our country. But, as more power more corruption, we think that in the Spanish State, in this sense, those who just want to point out the corruption that is here..., the corruption of the Spanish State is, in proportion to the power it has, much bigger and much more dangerous in our times. Not just the accumulation of power, but the practice in this accumulation of power. We think that the two-hundred years of history... of the two-hundred years of history of the Spanish State, of Spain, of the two-hundred years later, half have been with dictatorial or absolutist forms. So, there's a lot of power and corruption abuse in the Spanish State, huh? It would be worth thinking about 'ho. Therefore, the first of the objectives to avoid, to prevent, is to limit power, to divide it. The second, form character in the ruler. The one who ends up corrupting is someone, and people are the ones who exercise corruption. So, what's important is that these people have an ethical background. In this sense, we have also seen that there are different proposals for resolution that go this way. In fact, ethics means character – ethics means character – and when there's a character there's a common way to make people, it doesn't guarantee anything, but it's a good prophylaxis to get there to be less corruption, huh? Actually, it's no coincidence that Plato, for example, said the ruler. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , someone had to start exercising in politics from fifty-five years, devoting the fifty-five years prior to the formation of character, to the preparation of. Therefore, all proposals for resolution that vagnate in this line of ethical formation, of ethical preparation, of character formation of the ruler, also. And the third line..., the first serious limitation of power, formation of character of the ruler and the third, to limit corruption, is the information of the subject that should have benefited from the power, and, in change, is deprived for the effect of corruption, that is, the citizenry, the people, that should be the beneficiaries of the common good. To those who are not beneficiaries of the common good, therefore, we must give information, we must give knowledge, transparency, information. Certainly, transparency and information. [[The orator shows the chamber a few fulls.]] This is data from the trips of a certain Spanish Autonomous Community of the past year, from all the cargoes. These excellencies, this bunch of excellencies, are the data that informs us of the journeys of the representatives of another autonomous community of the Spanish State, the same year. Do you know what the information, the transparency, of which autonomous community is this information? It's from the Government of Catalonia. Do you know who this information is? D'Andalusia. [[Greetings.]] In which there is the ruling Ciutadan party, promoter of this debate. Well, transparency and information is one way to fight it. Finally, not only information, but the empowerment of the people is another way to fight corruption. The control of empowerment is repression. Generate by and generate the way, which is also patenting and hard on our country, as it goes, say, to promote corruption. I've talked about prevention. Call the denunciation. A good part of our resolution proposals go to prevention, a good part go to the denunciation of corruption that exists at this time in the Spanish State. I have, logically, omitted the subject of the third act, which is that of penalization and punishment. This happens to us, since we have positioned ourselves in favour of all the motions for resolutions that we believe are in line to divide power, to weaken it, not to strengthen it, to achieve transparency, to achieve the empowerment of citizenship, to achieve the ethical character of the ruler and, in this sense, to support all the motions for resolutions that go in this sense. There will be positive votes from all the groups, from all the different groups that have presented themselves, therefore, we have not come to terms with others, and in that case we are grateful to those groups that have managed to negotiate, in the case of the commons, in the case of the socialists, we are grateful for this ease of dealing and of being able to make real policies against corruption. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're done with the debate. Let's go to the vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.20.0	Yes, President. To ask for the reading of resolution 9, socialist, before their vote, if possible. Thank you. [[Dimas Gragera Velaz asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.21.0	Yes, Mr. Gragera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.22.0	President, I would like to ask for allusions to Mr Orobig's words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.23.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.24.0	Thank you, President. Mr Orobig, you accuse us of moral corruption and tell us that we are not human because of the position we have taken, because of the position we have taken regarding those criminals convicted of sedition and embezzlement. If you in the first commandment of separatism, which is to dehumanize the adversary, will continue to do so for us, continue to do so, because we are not going to sue these convicted criminals. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.25.0	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. Mrs. Granados, you told me your 9th motion for a resolution, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. He wanted us to vote on the motions for resolutions in order of entry into the register, and the compromise motions for resolutions will be put to the end. [[Jordi Orobig and Sole ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Orobtig, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.26.0	No, for contradictions with Mr. Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.27.0	Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.28.0	Well, ultimately, you, with your argument, what you've done is ratify what I've explained. What I was asking is that you do not feel the least empathy, sensitivity and respect for a series of people, some of them in the prison of others in exile, and others who today occupy the office with the most important political authority in this country. And I believe that you, with your intervention, have come only to confirm that I am completely uncertain in my approach. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. So let's start the voting, and start with the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Cree Constituent. We vote on CUP Resolution No. 1 - Constituent Call. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 92 votes to 36, with 3 abstentions. And now we're voting number two. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 29 votes to 40, with 62 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 128 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 130 votes to one, with no abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 64 votes in favour, against and 67 abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 130 votes to one, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes to 66, with 66 abstentions. Motion for a resolution No 6 has been dealt with and we will therefore vote on it at the end. Let's vote number seven. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 7 was adopted unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now at 8. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 64 votes to 67, with no abstentions. And now we'll vote on number 9. Before, however, I will ask the fourth secretary, Mrs Ribas, to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.30.0	Motion for a resolution 9: "Exemplary public media. The Parliament of Catalonia : Point one. It is noted that the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation has not programmed any specific content on cases of political corruption, fraud and evasion of taxes that are the cause of judicial proceedings affecting President Jordi Pujol. Point two. To ensure the credibility of our public media, he urged the Government of the Generality to take the necessary steps to ensure the completion of the mission of public services and the rigour of information required by the CCMA's book of style in the appearances and treatments of President Jordi Pujol and Soley, prosecuted by different scandals of alleged corruption that affected him personally and members of his family, contextualizing the information and providing different elements of justice to citizens. It must be borne in mind that Mr. Jordi Pujol was removed from the treatment of very honorable, the institutional office, the life pension and other titles by the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.31.0	Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Widow's remorse.]] Calm down, calm down. Let's start the vote again. Now yes, the vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 97 votes in favour, against and 34 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled jointly by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the motion for resolution number one. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 1 was adopted by 73 votes to 38, with 20 abstentions. And we're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. Number 3_has been approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now at 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was adopted by 123 votes to none, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. Number 5 was adopted by 120 votes to three, with eight abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 95 votes in favour, against and 36 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. Number 8 was adopted by 123 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. Number 9 was adopted by 122 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. And now at 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 130 votes to one, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 13, since 11 and 12 have been negotiated and we will therefore vote for them to come to an end. The vote on the motion for a resolution No. 13 begins. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions; that is to say, unanimously. And now we're going to vote on 14. The vote begins. Number 14_has been approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Number 15 has been dealt; therefore, we will also vote on it at the end, and we will proceed to vote on number 16. The vote begins. Number 16_has been approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 1 was adopted unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 was rejected by 39 votes to 75, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. Number 3_has been approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 56 votes to 67, with 8 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 5. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was rejected by 39 votes to 92, with no abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 6 was rejected by 56 votes to 75, with no abstentions. And we're voting number seven now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on number 8, including the error correction submitted. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 39 votes to 92, with no abstentions. And now we're voting number 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 56 votes to 75, with no abstentions. And now we vote on number 10. The vote begins. The number 10_has been rejected by 56 votes in favour, 75 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's vote number 19. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 76 votes to 38, with 17 abstentions. And now we vote on number 20. The vote begins. Number 20 was adopted by 75 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Let's start at 17. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 66 votes to 56, with 9 abstentions. And we're voting now at 18. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 67 votes to 56, with 8 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The first two, 1 and 2, have been negotiated; therefore, we will also vote with the final package. Let's go straight to number three. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 95 votes in favour, against and 36 abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 94 votes in favour, against and 37 abstentions. Number 5_has been negotiated; we will vote for it, therefore, also at the end. And we're going to vote on number 6. The vote begins. Number 6_has been approved unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting now at 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 was rejected by 52 votes to 62, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting now at 8. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 8 was adopted unanimously: 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now at 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we vote on number 10. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution No. 10 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Possão was adopted by 65 votes to three, with 63 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 123 votes to none, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. Number 2_has been rejected by 59 votes in favour, 68 against and 4 abstentions. Vote now number three. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 56 votes to 63, with 12 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by three votes in favour, 71 against and 57 abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 5 was rejected by 39 votes to 62, with 29 abstentions. Let us now vote on the compromise proposals. First of all, we vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the proposal No. 6 of the Socialist and Unit Parliamentary Group for Progress and the proposal No. 11 presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We are voting now on the compromise proposal between the motion for resolution No. 5 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, and the proposal No. 15 presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group Republicà and for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And in later term we vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 2 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem and the proposal No. 12 presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 128 votes to none, with 3 abstentions. There are no more motions for resolutions to vote. [[Proposed law amending Law 14/2017, guaranteed income of citizens (continuation)]] [[202-00063/12]] And, therefore, we proceed directly to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution, directly and for a single reading, before the Plenum of the Bill's Amendment Bill 14/2017, the guaranteed income of citizens. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask them, as always, that if they have to abandon the hemicicle, they do it quickly and quietly. [[Long break.]] In accordance with Rule 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for the submission of opinions has expired, we shall now proceed to the debate on the joint statements submitted by the parliamentary groups. In the first place, the key groups will intervene according to the order of entry into the register and, later, the groups that have not submitted papers will intervene. Seconds has granted for the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen, this turn of interventions will be of two minutes for each parliamentary group and subgroup. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.32.0	So very good morning to all of you, Members, Members and Workers and Workers of the House, there are those who are direct from the House or those who are not considered direct from the House, but they make a good part of their work in this representative institution of the people of Catalonia. We wanted to begin our intervention to make a reminder of why we are again discussing, talking, making proposals in relation to guaranteed citizenship income or, rather, in relation to the law governing guaranteed citizenship income performance. If we have already made reference to the debate and discussed whether we should give it an urgent or one-reading procedure, we do not want to forget the fact that if today we are voting again with regard to normative changes in guaranteed citizenship income, it is because the performance management is not working. They must remember that we have told them in previous interventions. For a band, the fact that just a few days before the deadline for submission of documentation, new requests for new requests are made with the sole purpose and effects of denying performance. They must also remember what we have explained to them: that there are resolutions where they do not even express what is the cause for which the performance is being denied or that they make such a generic statement that it generates absolute defencelessness for the one who has claimed the performance. And we also want to remember that the fact of not clearly explaining, in a simple way, that anyone can hear, what is the processing state of their performance, at the end and at the end is converted into an element of limitation in access to the performance. When we rule, we also have to think about who was going to what we rule, not to give it a different deal, but to hear the nature of what we're regulating. And if what we find is that those people who at one point in their lives find themselves in a situation of poor major – that we don't forget: they have an absolute class expression – we don't make it easier for them to process the performance, what we're building is a management formula that denies rights. And, therefore, we need to think – and we don't need to see it as a question that can't be solved – of all the mechanisms that are possible, in order to facilitate what is performance management. If we have some sectors of the Catalan population that may have difficulty accessing it electronically, we generate more possibilities because we can regulate a performance as for many years, which is through a window with a worker or a worker who will give them the best information. Certainly, we also wanted to insist on an idea: that the performance management is not being done with the best of guarantees not supposed for the CUP, in no case a year to notify workers or workers. On the contrary: if today I still maintain a service management with the smallest answers, it is because there are workers and workers who do or do more than legally correspond to them and who obviously put everything that is..., or possess everything that is at their hands to be able to convey information, to be able to transmit knowledge, to facilitate what is service management. The focus on us is not on the workers and the workers, but on a determined model of management which, moreover, lacks resources and, moreover, considers that, today, we still lack sufficient resources to be able to give a necessary response to how to manage this performance. All this said, we also want to remember what we have explained so many times about the origin of guaranteed citizenship income. The origin is not the deputies and deputies that we are in this house or those of the previous legislature or those of the previous legislature. The origin is a commission that promotes popular legislative initiative and, therefore, the origin of this is the organized popular movements, organized social movements, which before a reality that we – and now I am referring to the deputies and the deputies – do not act as a regulation, they are the ones who do so and they are self-organised. And we should provoke a timely reflection, which is: that they certainly make one of the most progressive regulations that we have in force in this Parliament... – at least I can say that in this Parliament in Catalonia – it originates not in parliamentary groups, in Members and Members, but in organised civil society. Also for which we will vote in a stable we want to put in value the commission that promotes the popular legislative initiative. For this group, if we are discussing this standard change today..., it has originated in the work of that commission that promotes the popular legislative initiative, which later completed its activity when the rule was approved, continued to make a follow-up, control and – we must say and aggravate – taxation on what its application is. And as the committee promoting up to four parliamentary groups, three parliamentary groups and one parliamentary sub-group, we saw the need to change the guaranteed income of citizens. First, to adapt it to the finality, which is essential question. And, secondly, also to be able to or try to avoid certain restrictive actions that the Administration may have at the time of managing this performance. There have been basically some changes that we have proposed together, if anyone wants to compare some items that we have already presented as modification or others... Certainly, today what we will essentially vote on will not be so much the change of the law, but the considerations or self-expressions that we have presented to the change of the law. What you will see is that the two self-exams – the ones that have presented four groups and the one that has presented a subgroup – are basically coincident, as to the content and with some difference that is what I will want to explain further. In the first place, what we have proposed is to reduce to two_months the period of insufficiency of resources. To have a period as large as six months, what I could provoke was that there were families that would quickly be in the poor and that, at last, would have to see how they would have expected six months to have a reality with regard to the approval of the performance and, therefore, give answer to the need, that we can prove it perfectly, in two months. In the second place, we also wanted, in this subgroup, to exclude as input to the cost effects the family aids up to the second degree lower than twice the CIHR. And we have also accompanied it with another idea: for families of more than three members, three times the IRSC, because we thought, after all, that the situation was different. Here, the rest of the groups have opted for another interpretation, which was the two-fold limitation of the CIHR, for all subjects. We have already argued that we will also vote positively and think that it is an adventure, but we have seen that this distinction between families of more than or less than three members was perhaps more interesting. From this point of view we have to point out that the rest of the parliamentary groups, or the other self-exam, which is not ours, makes a reference to non-regular and timely entries, on this, we also want to make a reflection, not so much from a point of view of political toilet, but of normative interpretation, of interpretation of norms. We've had all sorts of doubts about how this could be interpreted and, therefore, we wanted to go to another editorial. But, above all, what we were also concerned about was how the concept of "de facto accredited" was incorporated into the excluded tickets or tickets. And, therefore, we, in self-examination, opted for the option of sworn declaration – for us, enough. However, the rest of the groups that have presented the joint statement, when their spokespersons, here at the Faristol, are able to explain it, make it clear that on the entries – that they are not regular and punctual – and above all on the question of ‘de facto accredited, they are not generating in relation to the Administration the possibility to ask for more documentation, to interpret in a less favourable way, but simply what is being established is that the legislation is complete, such as the current one today and, therefore, that there is no change that can not be interpreted restrictively. We do not say so, for sure – and we insist on this idea of the political toilet – but rather the effects of being able to interpret the norm favorably. And we've also made normal changes, we're proposing it and we're doing it today. And it's independently computing tickets that were accumulating in higher periods. There's also an important question. And in all the will to adapt the law, we have also had to convey that the two-month question is incorporated, as to the documentation to be credited to the bank statements and also to that concrete situation of the Geneva Convention receipts. We are talking about refugee and refugee situations, which also the question of the two months was applied to them and to them. I, to finish, a final idea. And it is that we consider that we will certainly return to speaking of guaranteed income from citizenship, and we place and appreciate the presence here of the councillor, because it is also very careful to see the six general observations made by CTESC, and forty to the joint made by CTESC with regard to the regulation, because we will find ourselves, surely, again, discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, it is the turn of Deputy Naomi of the Street, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.34.0	Good morning, everyone. In the intervention two days ago, I recalled that the benefit we are talking about today complies with article 24.3 of the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, which states that persons or families who are in a situation of poverty, have the right to access a guaranteed income of citizenship, which assures them the minimums for a dignified life. And I think it is good, from time to time, that politicians do something self-critical and, as the Aragonese Member has said, it was not the Government or a political party that pushed this law, but civil society. We have here today the guaranteed income promoter group, which were the ones who were pushing and collecting signatures for this law to actually be made. And when I hear Esquerra put on medals or put them on Mrs Bassa, I get the devils because I think it is a lack of respect for the commission promoting the law, which still today is struggling for the government to apply the law correctly. I think it is a lack of respect for the more than 120,000 people who signed this law, so that this law is possible and it is a lack of respect for the entities and deputies who participated in the presentation phase of the law. And so, first of all, I would like to highlight the efforts of all those involved in the promotion and collection of the more than 120,000 signatures that were needed to carry out a popular legislative initiative. When this law was admitted, it went through its phase of presentation and to this Parliament came a lot of entities from various sectors, to put their granite sand in the making of the law; so, second, we must also put them in value. And I'm talking about the tenth legislature, which ended without finishing the presentation phase. Fixed, we return to point 1, because it was fortunate that this law was a popular legislative initiative, because at the end of the legislature it did not fall and we were able to resume the one in the next legislature, which does not happen with the laws that are promoted from parliamentary groups or from the government. And at the beginning of the eleventh parliamentary term, the presentation was resumed at the stage of amendments and..., so, third, I also want to highlight the effort we made by all parliamentary groups, because we all had to make concessions in order to be able to reach an agreement that would translate into a real benefit for the citizenry, and to take time from under the stones so that it could enter into force as soon as possible, since this law, as it is the last safety net of people who are going through it frankly wrong. And we did it by fighting against the government's attempts to boycott the agreements we reached in the paper and delay that paper to delay the passage of this law. And I must also say that we were so aware of the importance of this law, that we managed to overcome these blockades by working on agreements, even though the rapporteur, therefore, called off the paper every two by three. And some of us who are part of that paper are still Members, and today you will see us speaking from this same faisttol, but there are two Members who are no longer here, and from here I want to send you a warm greeting, because of one of the things that I feel most proud of as a Member is that I have contributed to making this law a reality, and I want to record, my special memory for those people with whom I travelled part of this way. Also for those who participated in the presentation as members of the promoter group. Diosdado Toledo came to camp in Sant Jaume Square and fasted several days to force the government to accept the agreement that we had reached by the opposition groups. I also remember Sixte Garganté, the lawyers, Parliament staff and technicians of the parliamentary groups who also participated in the presentation; in our case, Ernesto Suárez, who was the companion who accompanied me in the shadow during the whole adventure that made that presentation. Finally, we were able to pass the law in 2017, and their approval was a ray of hope for those people who were having a bad time. And, unfortunately, the Government has endorsed that maximum trappouse of the Count of Romanones, "make the laws and leave the regulations to me, and in this case the non-regulation, because we are in 2020 and the Government has no regulation of this law. And, as they have done with many other problems generated by their own inaction, they blamed 155, but at this point it no longer hangs. And we have no regulation because in the absence of it they have been shielded and continue to shield themselves to exclude many citizens and to deny them the benefit unjustifiably and improperly. And that is why we have introduced this law, so that the Government cannot shield itself from the lack of regulation to interpret it in a restrictive way, for example, by leaving out of the benefit to persons who at one time have received financial aid from a family member. Since its registration, which was in September last year, we have held meetings with the commission of government or monitoring of the law, which is formed, therefore, by the administration, unions, employers, entities of the third sector, where we were made a series of evaluations. Some of them have been incorporated into the form of a self-amendment, which contains the following. The concept of liberality for affective reasons has been transferred from Article 7 to Article 4.4, stating that they will not compute as income within the period of lack of specific support that comes from relatives up to the second degree of consanguinity or affinity and that they are less than twice the indicator of income of sufficiency of Catalonia. And I pick up the request made by Congressman Vidal, don't I? I, for example, understand that when we say that you have to be properly accredited, it's so simple that..., with the family book and with the bank account statement; nothing more. On the other hand, well, the same thing: why? How do you think you're over eighteen? With the DNI. Well, that's how I interpret it. On the other hand, we included one of the recommendations of the follow-up commission to the law mentioned above to ensure that aid received by administrations in a single payment format but corresponding to different months is prorated so that this calculation of lack of income is adjusted to the reality. And finally, we delete the second final provision, concerning budgetary allocation, because it is unnecessary, since, since this benefit is a subjective right, the budget line must be opened and no enabling clause is necessary. We have been working on this amendment for months, trying to hear input from both the Law Commission and the Follow-up Commission, following the spirit of a presentation that we were able to make because very different parliamentary groups made a huge effort to achieve the necessary consensus. Obviously, each of the groups would have given him a different shade if he presented it separately. In Citizens, for example, we do not believe that the Government is willing to extend complementarity with the income of work this year. We are fed up with the Government's announcements that do not materialize, as is the case with the theft of the orphan children's pensions, that Mrs Bassa announced in 2015 a decree to stop taking the money from the orphan children and Councillor Homrani says they are still working on it. Five years to bring forward a decree. Counselor, you're embroidering macramé and that's why it takes so long? Because let's see if they're going to be like Penelope, that what he was knitting for the day was scarring him for the night. That's why we don't think they really want to extend the complementarity of guaranteed income with income from work for all kinds of families or cohabitation unions, because we're sick of ads that never come to anything. And on the part of Citizens, therefore, in this case, in this law, we would have preferred to extend this complementarity rather than reduce the period of deficiency to two months. But, in any case, it is a good law, because by making these articles concrete, we will prevent the Government from continuing to make this restrictive interpretation of the law and thus contribute to reducing inequality. Because poverty and inequality are a social problem, but it is also an economic problem that affects us all. In Citizens, as a progressive liberal party, we like to highlight the economic side of inequality. Because the least unequal societies are the most prepared and competitive societies, and as long as we have these levels of inequality we cannot compete with the rest of the world. And in Citizens we do not understand the budget allocation of this law as an expense, but as an investment, as one of the best investments a society can make, which is to invest in its citizens so that they can give their best of themselves. It is the best investment you can make for future generations, such as that one of four Catalan children who is currently living below the poverty line. Without forgetting us, yes, that we have to make the middle and working class also have opportunities to generate wealth, because without wealth we will not be able to redistribute anything or meet social needs. And I want to end my intervention in the same way as I did when we approved the guaranteed income of citizenship, which is reaffirming citizens' commitment to ensure that the inaction or bad action that may be exercised by those who govern does not limit or distort the objective of this law. We have committed ourselves and have fulfilled, and we will continue to do so, seeking points in common with other parliamentary groups to join forces in those issues that involve social progress, which ensure equal opportunities and make this autonomous community a more just and free place, within that Spain with which some of us dream, for which we struggle from the institutions. Because in Citizens we believe in a state of solidarity, which does not leave in the gutter the citizens who most need it and which puts in their hands the tools necessary to return to the labor market. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Raúl Moreno, of the Socialists Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.36.0	Thank you, President. Greeting the members of the Commission for the Guaranteed Income of Ciutadania who accompany us, councillors, deputies, deputies... Finally, this second modification for a single reading of the guaranteed income of Ciutadania seems that it will obtain the reunion, if not unanimous, majoritarians of the parliamentary groups of this chamber. And I think I'm speaking on behalf of all the promoters groups– Citizens, who left me the other day to say it, PSC, Catalonia in Comú Pode and the CUP – if I say that the objectives we started and for which we started this law change have been achieved. Who are these targets? So reduce from six to two months the time a person has to justify that he does not have enough tickets to claim the guaranteed income of citizenship; extend twelve months those benefits that could be paid during these two months in which he had to justify the economic insufficiency and that were benefits that had an annual character and that, therefore, were to be prorated for twelve months, so as not to interfere in the person's account and, therefore, that he could not agree, with this excuse, to the guaranteed income. And, in addition, we introduce into the law the possibility that they may receive punctual entrances of family members up to the second degree, family members who normally help families or people who are in social exclusion, so, paying them the logger, paying them the sub-administrations, and that these punctual aids can also make them incorporate as entrances and, therefore, that this person overtakes the entrances and cannot access the guaranteed income. And it's true that with the modifications we've made or with the agreement that we've finally been able to take there are two considerations. One, set a maximum for these economic contributions, which we consider to be normal, the fact that it is possible to set a maximum, because, if we do not set it, any type of donation could not count as admissions and, therefore, we would put in some way a difficulty the manager or manager of this performance. And, indeed, these types of entrances must be justified, as well as the guaranteed income of citizens. We're talking about public money, and so we have to be curious about how we administer it. Now, how do you prove these tickets? The deputy of the CUP, then, proposed some formulas, didn't he? , which are initially what we considered, which was through an affidavit, as it is now used for many social services services; we wanted to introduce this affidavit also into the usual SOC mechanisms. But it can also be demonstrated with a simple bank transfer. If we know that they are the second-degree family members and they correspond names, surnames, so we know that with this justification of this current account – that for another band it is also to be attached to the time to ask for the guaranteed income of citizenship – we do not need to ask for more papers, that with the same paper that is already asked it can be verified if these punctual entries come from second-degree family members. Let us therefore consider that with these changes we will cause the guaranteed income to be more effective, that it is more effective, fairer, and that it is going to stop at the collective that until now, both for the conditions of the same law as for the management that has taken place, they were out of the performance and leaving out of the performance many people who were suddenly in a situation of insufficiency of entrances. And, for another band, we also congratulate ourselves on the consensus – I don't know if absolute, but enough – to give out these modifications. The whole process hasn't been like this, either. The groups that promote this change are asked until we withdraw the law in a moment. He also said that dealing with it would make the rules stand out. Clearly, until the CTESC process has passed, but we still don't have it, the rules, huh? It was told to the entities that are part of the commission, the governing body of the guaranteed income, that the original text that we are presenting today could not be edited; and we have even drafted it and all that we have presented it. Clearly, many things were said to prevent this vote and this change – the second – for a single reading. But it is well that ends well, and if the text we are carrying today to vote comes out with a majority result of parliamentary negotiation, then better. Let's hope we don't have to make modifications for read-only for lack of regulation. It is the only possibility that we have parliamentary groups to be able to make changes before the complaint of many citizens, who are in a very critical situation, who are told that Catalonia has a guaranteed income, that they consider that they have a right to that guaranteed income and that they find that when they are asked to do so, they do not have a right. And I don't say that... many times people think they have a right to a benefit and when they see the conditions, so maybe they don't have a right. But it is that many of them who come to see us and inform us, and many of the SOC workers and social workers who have to give their faces, and then tell us to the parliamentary groups: "Listen to me, I don't understand why they have denied this person guaranteed income, and that we see more or less, with the considerations that the law brings..., these people are in a very complex situation and that they are directly benefiting from guaranteed citizenship income. The rule is therefore absolutely necessary, but while we do not have a rule, parliamentary groups will have to make changes to the law. And it's not the way to do it, it's not the way to do it, but it's that we don't have any more remei. Three and a half years waiting for a rule! The excuse was 155. What is it now? 156? I mean, why don't we have a three-and-a-half-year rule after the adoption of a law as important as this, with as much influence on the collections as they suffer most? That, by the way – and here I also want to reflect, as some of the other Members did – this was a popular legislative initiative, which was already in its day..., which entered just in the years of crisis, which this Parliament and some groups that gave recollection to the Government at those times let go of years and years and years until we finally could approve it to begin processing; it was not immediately. And that popular legislative initiative, which cost us more than a year of negotiation in this Parliament, with many of the Members we are here, is not something that can be attributed to a government. It's a country law, approved by an absolute majority of this chamber, if I can't remember. And, therefore, I can hear the paper of Conselera Bassa, who at those times was a conselera and who, therefore, also logically contributed to the approval of this law, I would only miss; but this law cannot be attributed to a government or a conselera, because it is a lack of respect for the conjunction of the citizenry and the driving forces of this law. Speaking of incompliments, the same law says that a memo must be published every December of each year. And we don't have it. The year 2018 has indeed been published, and it tells us, therefore, how many beneficiaries, beneficiaries, how many returns had been donated to the end of the year... This year we don't have it, and it is essential to be able to make the balance of how it went. And, when you publish it – it was to be published in disembarkation, I hope it is done quickly, because I am sure that you are completing the law, and that it is certainly a question of terms or days, that has not finished the thing of doing so; if it is not so, then perhaps a few months from now we will have to be a little harder demanding that they complete the law, until all the fact of being able to prove which is its function, and the memory –, we would like to divide: those people who get the guaranteed return so that they get a supplement to a non-contributory benefit or pension, and those who get the guaranteed return pure. And when I say pure I mean total, absolute; people who have no resources and who respond to the guaranteed return in their totality. Because when we talk about 120,000 beneficiaries and beneficiaries, at these times we don't know how many we have with a guaranteed total income and how many are fifty, sixty euros of guaranteed income supplement. Clearly, the situation is different, because in the end, if that, if this law must help us to guarantee the minimums of a dignified life, as the State of autonomy says, we will have to know what the reality is. For the time being, the data we have, and that says the Foessa report, is that only a 1.9_per_cent of the population in Catalonia has requested this performance and that the guaranteed income of citizenship is only above the 10_per_cent of the population that would be right. 10_percent of the population at risk of social exclusion. And, of course, this should make us think if what we've done is right or wrong, if the law is a good law or it's a bad law. But in any case, we should consider whether we can be more extensive in its application. Having poverty in our country costs us money, all folds. If we are able to make a good return policy, that assures a few minimums of life worthy of those people who are worse off, from the economic point of view but above all from the social point of view, we will be making a country of progress and we will be able to fix our goals in the generation of wealth, in the generation of work, because we will somehow solve, if not to the hundred_per_cent, in a very high percentage, the living conditions of those who have less. And, therefore, ensure equal opportunities for all Catalans and Catalans. And this was the sense of purpose of this law that we approved in his day, with all the illusion of the world, and that what we want, precisely, is that it is unfolded with the same illusion with which it was created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Mrs Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.38.0	Good morning. The other day we explained this in the beginning of this debate of the single reading of modification of the Law of guaranteed income. This proposal comes from a shared concern among many, among others for the four opposition groups that we signed up to this proposal, but also for the multiple complaints that had come to us from users, social workers, social entities, various elements that were succeeding. Among other things, on the part of the Committee for Guaranteed Income, which made some very concrete proposals, from which these four proposing groups we understood that some of these elements could not be solved by any other means than by legislative amendment. And that's why we made a unique reading proposal to modify some of these problems that we are having in the execution of guaranteed citizenship income. Many others, however, of these problems are not legislative issues, and we want to insist, are of deficient deployment of what the law already says or of restrictive reading of what the law already says, and of the fact that we have not yet had a rule of deployment of this law. Let us go, however, to the one we are debating today. On what it did call a legislative change, we promoted this change. The main element of this modification: the reduction of the time of lack of entrances that can be demonstrated to demand the guaranteed income of citizens. The current law obliges you to demonstrate that you have experienced with fewer vital minimum entries required during six months. And with this change we pretend that this time is two months. It's that it's too long, it's true, for people who find themselves in a situation of vulnerability, they have to be in these most vulnerable circumstances during at least six months in order to be able to demand guaranteed citizenship income. The other essential element for which we have made this change is that it is not a penalty that during this time that you have not had tickets you have received help from family or friends. Two things so basic and essential are the ones that promote this law change. If you have survived less than six hundred euros a month for six months, you can't be penalized because some family member has been helping you because you pay for the winemaker, you don't have to live on the street or because you have to eat or you can pay for the light or water. These are the reasons that led us to this change and, as we said the other day, we explained it, and it's a simple text, technically speaking, of a subject that has given a lot of debate about content, so we've spent a few months finally bringing the law to the plenary. There has been a lot of pressure during these months because this change so simple but so basic is not done. A lot. But in the end – and this is what I want to stay with – we arrive here today with a modification that will be approved and that kept the essences of why we did this modification and even in some respects technologically improves on what was the initial proposal. I'll explain. A thousand technically in the sense that we touch all of the law on which it is reduced from six months to two months this lack of entrances. Technically, one thousand times the fact that we have introduced the prorateig, or so, that those persons who during those two months of lack of entrances who must prove that there is some rejection of any help during that time, of whom it is not given month by month, but who are given by six months or for one year, this quantity is prorategi, its effect, by months and therefore do not penalize that in those two months you have restored that type of emergency aid which is given by a few months more. Therefore, positive and better. We have also improved on removing the presupposition clause from the law and, therefore, it is still clearer that this is a subjective right and, therefore, it is not subject to presuppositional availability. And it's the same if there are or aren't any Generalitat assumptions to come into force. It comes into force once it's published and enough. And also fine-tuning how we're technically viable, and avoiding more bureaucracy, or avoiding side effects of tax, the fact that it's not computing in the front row of these aids that you may be reborn by family members. This has been the only point of six points that we have raised in which there is no consensus of all groups that we have already spoken at the moment. That's why there are two presentations, one from the CUP and one from four parliamentary groups. Certainly, we like the proposal made by the CUP for this point. It goes further in some elements of how, how, and some elements of the quantity limitation that you can end up receiving from a family member during these months that you don't have tickets. But we also need to be clear, if this had been the proposal we brought today, it probably wouldn't have been approved. And most of all, there wouldn't have been a government doing it. And that the regulation – that we expect it to be urgent, quickly, that this rule of deployment of guaranteed citizenship income is in place – also allows you to line up with this modification of the law that is done today. We also want to be very clear, and we are asking the Government not to use the wording that will thrive today neither to make more restrictive applications of the will at this point, nor to provoke more bureaucracy or paperwork to the applicant. Precisely, the point is there's no more. And, above all, that there is a regulation already, and that the regulation allows..., and is aligned with this legislative amendment, with this amendment of the law that we are making today. Therefore, the issue to which we have added ourselves, the issue to which we would vote because we are going to pull forward, is to make the essence of the change we wanted viable, and to make it technically correct and to make it immediately applicable. And what we want is that it continues to be modified to what we have mobilized four groups to sign a text because it is done this modification, which is to facilitate access to the right subject to guaranteed income, because it is only necessary to demonstrate two months ahead of the request for lower entrances to the street to have guaranteed income, and that these insufficient entrances, these external entrances that may have been received by family members during these months without sufficient entrances, are not penalized. They were two very clear objectives, the two objectives today will be approved, we stay with the positive. Obviously, politics is also coming to make possible the longings of the citizenry that are being eroded. And here, today, in Parliament and during these months we have made politics. We appreciate, and very much, the pressure it is from the outside because we try to go as far as possible, because that is what leads us not to give in to certain things. But sometimes, in some cases, it has to be given up to get to that viable, to that which is approved, and to that which is brought to an immediate end, which is done by the government, and today it will be seen with what they have signed this issue and it will be approved. Therefore, I believe that today is a great success for the people who have to access the right to guaranteed citizenship income, because they have it easier and because they can access it more easily. There is a presupposition with more resources and now there will have to be, as soon as possible, a government that I stopped doing restrictive readings of this law, that I believe in it and that I apply it as it should. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.40.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. First of all, to greet the public that accompanies us, especially, the commission promoter. Well, the best way we think we can fight the poor and social exclusion is to work, especially decent work. But when this fails, the guaranteed income of citizenship is the essential tool to fight the poor, inequalities and also exclusion. And it is not – it has already been said with the words that have preceded us – with the aim of guaranteeing the autonomy of the people who find themselves in a situation of vulnerability and thus work because any city and any family in our country is able to bear their necessary expenses in order to live with dignity. We all know that guaranteed citizenship income is a delicate issue, and it is because it has a particular essence: the law arises from social movements and citizens' demand through an ILP. Therefore, it was thought and shared by many agents and actors of the society, they were entities, trade unions, employers, the Third Sector, the local world and the very different citizenry that made it possible to reach good agreements and share them with the government in order to make the new law real. And that, and this fact will never be denied. We entered, then, in a new scener, a law that involved putting aside the basic income, the old PIRMI, and creating a new right that allowed us to make a great deal of conditions so that we could acquire the new performance and thus advance against the poor. This April – it has been said on other occasions – ends the term set in the law to make the full deployment. And we also remembered in the last speech of this Ple, that the law came into operation on September 2017. When this started its application and implementation, it started with an 85_per_cent of the final import of the performance. It was known that there would be a transition, but when the third phase of its implantation began, which was last September, a new change was executed and, therefore, an increase in the amount that went up to 97_percent of the IRSC, as was already established by the same law and as had been established during its study and subsequent..., in its application. This change implies an increase in the benefit for all family unit profiles with guaranteed citizenship income, and this boost also applies to the number of beneficiaries. But you still have to wait to see the final impact of the performance, because you haven't been able to enjoy your entire deployment yet. In this sense, the number of beneficiaries of the guaranteed income of citizens is increasing, but the number of beneficiaries of the guaranteed income of citizens is decreasing. And I say so in the sense that we can eradicate the poor in the country. Because most of the people who are looking for guaranteed citizenship income are the job placement of the recipients and the people who perceive it stop doing it because they have found work. Another question, which is not very important – and I am getting back to it because it has already come up with the interventions that have preceded me, I think that in all of them – it is the final and complete drafting of the rules of the same law, which is the instrument that, in fact, will allow us to regulate the performance between the various departments and the beneficiaries. His administration process is in the process of finalizing and will soon be approved; concretely, it will be this March, the month he sees. In any case, now I want to focus on what we are putting to this vote. The scale, we, from the Republican Group, have already guessed that we considered that a change in guaranteed income from citizenship by one reading was not the best way to find consensus and understanding among all the agents and actors who have been part of it. I think we can't lose the essence of the same law, as I already referred to it, because I'm sure any change we can make will not be shared in its entirety with all its agents and with all the people who feel their law. Because of a small change that can be made to the law must be taken into account and study all the impacts that would carry its implementation. And it's obvious that we would like to find ourselves in terms of maximum, but it's hard to do the realism exercise and be realistic and take into account the limitations that the Administration and the institutions also have badly in this case. That is why, however, I believe that we can never lose this hope or throw away the tablecloth to continue advancing against the poor and to combat the social inequalities of the country. But, in any case, I also welcome the fact that we have reached a broad agreement between most of the groups in the chamber, and I hope that then, in the vote, we will see that. Because it's also important that, once you've given yourself the green light to this one-reading amendment of the law, so we can't afford to miss the opportunity to try to introduce all those better ones that we think can move forward, and, above all, that they were pacts between all of us. To put me a little in a situation with the agreements that we have reached, it would certainly be repetitive, with the words that preceded me, but one of the points that we have been able to find the agreement is the current reduction of the six-months to two-months necessary to prove the lack of entries for the possible applicants. It's a point that we think it's important to change because this is a big step, a big step towards bringing the guaranteed income of citizenship closer and better to everyone who needs it, for a band, because it ensures that this access to the service is able to produce before, because it's essential, we think it's essential to give a quick response, and, on the other hand, it also shortens the time of vulnerability of people who may find themselves in a situation of lack of resources, in this case. A new change is also added, which will allow more people to benefit, because it is specified that they will not compute as entries to determine the economic outreach to economic aid by family members up to the degree of consanguinity or affinity lower than two times the CIHR, and with the justification that they are punctual and not regular. Therefore, persons who, before being beneficiaries, may have some type of economic help on a timely basis by some family member will not be left out of the service. At the same time, the amount of other aid that may be received, which shall be paid pro rataly and monthly, shall also be determined, even though it may be collected cumulatively. In this way it is also possible to improve the determination of the lack of returns and the access tickets to the performance. On the other hand, we also thought it was interesting to add that local social emergency aid is not taken into account, but as we wanted to reach a good agreement between the majority of the chamber, this point has ended. But we believe that all these points that I have just commented on, so they are very important changes and that, since the law was opened, they were necessary to do so. And here I am for a moment, to take advantage of the fact that we regret that we could not have reached this joint agreement between most of the groups in the chamber, so as to try to do so with the companies and companies of the CUP. And unfortunately, even if we want to get the most out of it, we can't give support to the thought that is being raised, because we think that in this sense, therefore, they are doing the most and, as in previous reflection, there are times when, even if we want to go further, we also need to do this exercise of realism. And on the other hand, also because..., to the point that the reports were properly accredited, we believe that – and so it is – this point is to protect the technicians and you would work them from a situation of subjectivity and that, in this sense, therefore, they are protected. Finally, I insist that I make reference to it before, that I think we need to be more careful at the time of making changes to the law, of laws as important as the guaranteed income of citizenship, via the one reading because I think we are entering some costumes, and this is not the first time we have done it, and then we add that it is not so simple to make changes to laws as important and so complex as today. But before we get to the bottom of this, I would like to add that, despite everything, despite getting here, so it's cost us a series of difficulties, I think we've done a whole exercise, and in this sense we're happy and I want to congratulate all the groups for being able to come to an agreement. I believe that there have been press releases, that have always been provoked by the tensions of the context, and also the way to do it, by one reading, always generates these disconformities, sometimes, but I think that today we have been able to do so, among all, politics, because we often find that politics does not only take hold, but even now it takes a pile, and we are not at the height of what citizenship expects, of us. And if we made this effort more often, we would all make it, especially all Catalans and Catalans, so that we could come to good agreement, and especially when we talk about moving forward to fight the poor and the inequalities. But, in any case, today I believe that we have been able to build a constructive policy and reach an understanding that will make it possible, even more so, for citizens' income to be closer to all citizens of the country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Congresswoman Saloua Laoaji. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.42.0	Thank you. President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Deputies, Deputies, Workers and Workers, Representatives of Entities and Guests..., also special greeting to the group promoting guaranteed citizenship income, all thanks for your efforts, for your dedication and for your constant militancy to help and be at the expense of the poor. Well, good morning to everyone. In the first place, we celebrate the understanding and positively value the presence of the common sense and the fact that a consensus has been reached between almost most of the groups regarding the presentation of the papers to the section of the Law Proposal of the amendment of Law 14/2017, of the guaranteed income of citizens. Again, as I did the other time, I stress the fact that the mechanism of modifications used is not the most adhering and that there is a need for a global change and reform of the Law of Guaranteed Citizenship Income to improve it, to resolve the imperfections that have been produced and to introduce pending legislative mechanisms. But we also need to be realistic and self-critical, because self-criticism on this issue is very important. Because these changes are insufficient and will never be enough, because, as we know, of the constant dynamism of society. And for the fact that at each time we could emerge elements and new needs and realities that were not taken into account, and would cause the need for a new revision, reform or change. That's why we always have to cultivate the experience of renewal and updating politically and to make genuinely active, modern and progressive policies. It is necessary that there is a willingness to make nine readings and better through constant revisions and acceptance of nine visions. And obviously always between the mark of human rights, the norms and the recommendations of experts and international institutions, without leaving aside the central theme, which is social justice, democracy and social dialogue. Because without a dialog, we don't go anywhere. And besides, we can't fight the poor, because the need doesn't wait. Precarity and inequality are a flagrant expression of the patience and dignity of people, who represent an important part of our country's citizenship. With regard to the proposal that was voted unanimously for the single reading procedure, from our parliamentary group, Juntes per Catalunya, we show that the ways were not entirely adequate; they are ways that do not facilitate the generation of the necessary agreements and also generate mistrust. And with regard to some of the issues, our position is articulated in the following way. With regard to the non-accountability of the entries that are as a consequence of a liberality due to affection or friendship or the provision of food, we would like to recall that, according to the definition of the same Law 14/2017 ago..., from the family unit, to article 6.1..., says: "The Administration should only be able to account for those entries of this family unit, not accounting for help from other families or friends who do not belong to it. Nor, of course, do these aids that social entities carry out; for example: both entities such as Red Cree or Caritas or other social networks provide economic aid for many concepts, that rebates people who are likely to demand guaranteed income from citizens, such as food aid, to pay for housing, sub-administrations, medicines..., and do these aids, precisely because people still do not cover guaranteed income from citizens; they are temporary, timely and subsistence economic aids that enable them to complete their journeys and achieve guaranteed income from citizens. That is why it seems to us to explain to the text of the law, so that they do not account for the help of social entities or persons who are not part of the family unit. And respect for the reduction of the term of the entry-insufficiency situation and the resources of the system to two months, we consider, in fact, that it is essential that it is possible to give a prompt response, and that everything that follows the reduction of this term favors the social task of the entities and would allege the economic burden of the networks that support these people in need. With regard to the issue of voting, I know that it is hard for us to vote against the papers of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Creed Constituent, because it has been lacking, let's say, perceptuality for negotiating the papers. And we would like to reiterate our appreciation for the overall agreement and understanding that there has been with the rest of the parliamentary groups. And, from a general reflection, I think we have to take into account that the poor is a circumstantial fact in the lives of human beings, and, in particular, of many people in our country, and that they are not part of their identity. For this reason, we understand that institutional responsibility for this issue is to put in place the mechanisms, tools and resources needed to fight against social insecurity and inequalities; to continue betting on returns to fight the poor without failing to explore effectively what is the best destination of public money; to review the entire system of benefits that exist so as to avoid inefficiencies and overlaps; to effectively combat the fraud of public aid, and to work actively to ensure that the guaranteed income of citizens is accompanied by social and labour inclusion programmes. And in view of the fact that inequalities do not only lead to a decrease in productivity, but also to poverty, exclusion and social instability, and even emotional imbalances and problems of self-esteem, and also, sometimes, mental health, the need to establish some basic rules to guarantee the opportunity for prosperity and a life that is minimally dignified for everyone has been recognized. The extent of the global poor; the great disparity of entrances; the precarious situations of some minorities, migrants and refugees; the vulnerability in which the great people, the young extolls and the unspeakable people live; the shortcomings suffered by the disabled people and with functional diversity; the wage inequalities that still exist between men and women, and the basic feminization of the poor – which, in fact, we still have a job hanging with the companies of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens on the subject of the feminization of the poor – and among so many other problems prove that our society is unjust, and so much; in many respects. And that guaranteed citizenship income is a tool that seeks to cover the basic needs of any citizen and protect him from exclusion, vulnerability and violence, while guaranteeing the minimum entrances to have a decent life. For this reason, its promotion and improvement is justified, for the purpose it wants to achieve; the guaranteed income of citizenship is one of the tools to be used for this purpose. For this reason, and for many other things of a fighting nature against marginalization, we have the obligation to correctly comply with our commitment to have an active listening to constructive criticisms. And finally, to say that it is necessary to learn from the mistakes that exist and..., it will allow us to do, in this 2020 and in the time that supposedly we are left with this legislature, a better standard mark and a regulation that takes into account the shortcomings and limitations that are being painted by the people of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.43.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.44.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies, public and people who formed part of the commission promoting the popular legislative initiative... I can not repress to do..., to the first comments, to make reference to the intervention of the deputy of Junts for Catalonia, right? , in the sense that he said that they did not consider it opportune that the one reading was the procedure for a law as important as that of guaranteed income of citizens. And well, I'm glad that you have this opinion, which was different when September 2017, also for one reading, was meant to carry the Statute and the Constitution. Clearly, I assume that you give those of your own prisms shouldn't be as important as what we have now in front of you. In this proposal of law, basically, there are two aspects, which I consider to be different and which also have a differential treatment on the part of my intervention, but also have a differential treatment at the time of the vote. What we consider most important is the modification of the requirement to be six_months without entries and to move to two_months without entries in order to be able to access the guaranteed income of citizenship, right? This is a very substantial change, which makes our doubts renegade in relation to guaranteed citizenship income. You know that we gave support to this year 2017, when it was approved, but you also know that we have been expressing reticences, and this substantial modification that is proposed makes these reticences precisely renegade, right? We have always defended that guaranteed income must be a transitional aid, was expressed by Mrs Ribas in her intervention in a clear way – I think it has been the intervention that she has made in a clearer way – that the desirable, obviously, is that people, that the citizens have a place of work and, if this fails, can have access to some help, right? Therefore, I think we need to visualize it as a transitory help, while these people are looking for or adapting their skills to access a work place, because, in the end, the progress between society will not be produced from the guaranteed income of citizenship, but will be produced at the time of access to the work market. Therefore, we understand and interpret work as better social policy. Reducing time without tickets to access the guaranteed income of citizenship can mean – it can mean – reducing interest to find a place of work, and this, in our view, can be a situation... or an undesirable effect of this modification. Now, as always in life, there is another vision that neither is alien to us and that I also want to express and share. As the Administration of a social, democratic and right state – in case anyone has any doubts, Spain – we have the obligation to guarantee a life worthy of our fellow citizens, right? And that's incompatible with trying to survive without tickets. Therefore, we understand that it is necessary that at certain times of life, that there are people or families who suffer sotracs, that they are left without tickets and that they are left without the possibility of being able to continue advancing in this life, that the Administration makes an effort to try to facilitate the return to a life, let us say, of work, seems absolutely necessary to us. In short, we want ours to be a welfare company, without harming the State to replace the company when it is needed. Not systematically, not permanently, but at times when it is necessary. We want a free society and free societies only settle when the citizens are free. And freedom does not exist when, in order to survive, it is up to the administrations. Therefore, in relation to the change that is being made to reduce the access term to guaranteed citizenship income from six to two months, our group will abstain in these votes. But it gave them to the beginning that there was a_second aspect, that is what it is regulated if they can perceive or not perceive certain aids – it went to say entries, they are not well tickets, or that formally they follow, but that they are help to survive. Obviously, people or families without resources who spend two or six months, obviously, without any type of income, therefore, have many difficulties to survive. So it's normal that there may be certain care aids or there may be help from family or friends, right? This, we understand, is a modification that we should not be discussing in the law. It's a question that should be perfectly provided for in the law's rules. A rule we don't have. And how we don't have it and the months go by and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so forth, 155... and all these things, and the government continues to have no rules – it seems that it's going on and that it can see the light soon – so we need to discuss these issues within the framework of the law reform of guaranteed citizenship income. But in this sense, we understand that the debate is reasonable and, therefore, that what is raised is reasonable. Therefore, our group will support these small modifications and will keep – as I mentioned earlier – the forbearance in the modification or in the six-step to two_months to perceive the guaranteed income of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. We'll call it a vote, once the debate is over. [[Long break.]] Well, we will vote, therefore, on the submissions submitted and we will do so in the order indicating the entry into the Register. And in the first place, therefore, we will vote the papers of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Cree Constituent. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 64 against and 65 abstentions. We now vote on the joint papers submitted for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Parliamentary Group... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.46.0	The request for a separate vote on items 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.47.0	Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.48.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.49.0	Yeah. [[Pause.]] We will therefore vote on the joint papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Parliamentary Group Republicà, Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress and Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. We vote first on 4 and 6, as requested; items 4 and 6. The vote begins. These two items were approved by 132 votes to none, with one abstention. We're voting for the rest of the papers now. The vote begins. The statements were approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And finally, we are voting now on the rest of the text of the bill's proposal and the joint initiative. The vote begins. The proposed law amending the Law 14/2017, on guaranteed income of citizens, has been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] Thank you. [[Inquiries to the Government on Climate Emergency]] [[300-00228/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next point is the question to the Government on climate emergency; question presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mr Josep Puig. When he wants to. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.50.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, three weeks ago we experienced two events in our country related to the fight against climate change in which I was able to be present, one at the Barcelona Assembly and the other at the Generality. I'll talk about this one from the Generalitat. The department that you're encapsulating organized the First Climate Action Summit. It was the culmination of a process in which work meetings were held with multiple actors, from economic and social agents to the agri-food, transport, housing, industry, services, local world, greeting, financing, knowledge, universities and research sectors. At the summit, a follow-up of general commitments was also made publicly, summarising the objective of fossil carbon neutrality before 2050, deepening the knowledge of the climate impact in each sector's activity, boosting energy transition, reducing the climate impact of the mobility generated and adopting the principles of the circular economy. I, at the same time, also have a six-hundred-and-a-half sectoral commitments shared among the participants in the summit. If you'll allow me, I want to tell you, counselor, that I've found there are two aspects missing, as I understand it, determinants. The first: concrete actions and terms, shows real and measurable commitments. The purpose of the summit was to agree on a full route. When are we gonna get this full route granted? This brings me to the second aspect that I found missing: organised citizen participation, especially from that part of the city that has been active and struggling for a long time against climate change and has many experiences to bring to the pocket to cope with climate change. The summit bears the name of Climate Action. In my opinion, there can be no collective and full road action without the participation of organised citizenship. I would like to mention the demands that citizens have from the world and also from home: to tell the truth about the gravity of the economic and climate crisis; to act now to reduce carbon emissions quickly and drastically, and to create and be guided by the decisions of a citizens' assembly on climate and economic justice. Now we are in the year 2020 and we have to recognize openly that like society – the whole society: politics, civil society, businesses and institutions – we are not doing the job of putting the energy and climate package of the European Union proposed in 2007 and approved in 2009. This European policy proposed that by 2020 the emissions of greenhouse gases should be reduced by 20_per_cent compared to 90; that the final energy from renewables should be the 20_per_cent tape; and that there should be an improvement in energy efficiency also by 20_per_cent. The reality at home is that, with the latest data available, 2017, emissions are not shrinking, but they are increasing; that energy comes from renewables not up to 9_per_cent; and that yes..., but in change we are slightly improving efficiency. I do not mean that all this is a toilet that I do to our government and to our Parliament. I don't know about those people who demand from someone else what they don't do themselves. More recently, I am a member of people who are asking themselves what am I doing for my country? And not those who say "what does the government of the country do for me?" - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. One day, when they are around, I can explain my family experience in releasing us from fossil fuels to our daily lives. The challenge of global warming of the atmosphere is a phenomenon caused by the addiction to the cream of fossil fuels, to which our society is entangled. It is a challenge to ask all of us individually and collectively. It requires moving to action and this has to be collective. This means sharing knowledge and acting with concrete measures while making assessment and the corresponding follow-up. We need an action plan. The European Union, with the irrevocable objective of climate neutrality by 2050, has recently adopted the new net energy package for all Europeans and obliges Member States, through the Energy and Climate Governance Regulation, to adopt an energy and climate plan to meet the objectives. I, annually, will make an assessment of the compliment. Catalonia, I do not feel yet a state, is not formally obliged to present this National Energy and Climate Plan, but because of consistency with our ambition with the country and because of the responsibility and compliment of the Climate Change Act that we have approved in this Parliament, we should consider ourselves questioned for a plan for Catalonia. Only with an energy and climate plan can we consider ourselves part of the European Green New Deal and of the economic resources that the European Union has announced it will devote to it. We plan the country's needs and don't let the other ones prioritize investments. We never wanted it to be this way, and less can be done before climate change. Ah, and the recent United Nations Environment Programme Emissions Disparity Report reminds us that emissions have to decrease by almost 3 per cent annually by 2030 to meet the goal of not exceeding two degrees of temperature increase, and around 7 per cent annually to avoid a temperature increase of more than 1.5 degrees. A colossal challenge, however, to my mind, insoluble if there was political will and if it creates the need for civic complicity. "We're a long way from where we're supposed to be," wrote a businessman a few days ago at the top of a newspaper. His company is a pioneer, a paper company, and has sunk zero emissions. Let's keep up and face the problem. Our children, our nets and our nets, will surely appreciate it. Counselor, the First Climate Action Summit has been a step forward, but many steps must be taken to achieve the objectives of a drastic reduction in emissions with the urgency that is needed. We need to stop saying what we want to do and start saying how we're going to do it and when. We need to put files on short notice and evaluate your compliment. Counselor, the department that you're encapsulating and the government that you're part of is willing to create the conditions that make the Catalan society go beyond the dictatorship of fossil fuels, still building a society free of fossil carbon? With what I trust they're willing to do, I'm asking you to put in a calendar. I am convinced that this Parliament is at its disposal for collective climate action. We have a shared energy and climate action plan for Catalonia. Let us not let the legislature end without responding to the climate emergency situation with concrete and real measures. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Minister of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.52.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members, Members... MP Pep Puig, many thanks for his intervention and, if I may, also for his long-standing personal commitment to what we now call 'climate emergence', before he called himself other ways, but it is clear that you have a contrasted and well-recognized trajectory for me too, and therefore I appreciate his uncertain reflections. I'll try to answer the questions that he does and continue to work bravely to face this global challenge that we have – it's not just Catalonia, it's all over the world. From the Department of Lands and Sustainability, from the Government, we want to thank him, therefore, for his dedication to these subjects, which will lead us equally and equally, from the hands of parliamentary groups, such as that of Junts per Catalunya, we hope to find the formula for all of us to get out - as well as the country. The climate crisis has its effects on the structural aspects of our development, which have become absolutely unsustainable. We have known that structural reforms have been under way for a long time, but as we go by, structural reforms come when we are forced to do so, and now we have done so before this climate emergency. In key words, you quoted them in your intervention, decarbonization of activity and neutrality, which are not zero emissions, but neutrality. The challenge we have now is 2050; we would like to get there as soon as possible. It's either that or, sadly, irreversible impacts on our way of hearing life on the planet. To combat this threat we need to change to the background – you also said the energetic model, we need to change to the background also the product model; moving from linear product models to product models that have a circular view, not talking about residues, but about resources. We also need to change the mobility model. We've said it many times: decarbonize mobility. This means more and better public transport, more micromobility, based also on being able to share: the concept of mobility beyond the tenence of one or other estries that helps move in this man, to any city of our cities, of our country. It also forces us to rethink the occupation and uses of the space of our territory, because they are more resilient before already inevitable effects. Adaptation to climate change, as to extreme meteorological phenomena: the waters we used to tend to the past October or the phenomenon of Glory that we have experienced only fifteen days ago, the forest fires that we experienced in the summer in the Ebre River and in part of the Segria and Garrigues. Also rethinking the food model; this is a fundamental aspect that asks us as citizens, as consumers, why they are also healthier – safe – and more sustainable, and ensure guarantees of supply, precisely, before different climatic conditions. Rethinking also the model of social services – this is an aspect that we sometimes don't forget – in the measure that new vulnerabilities can appear to us that, until now, we don't know. Therefore, we have a real challenge of a country that we must face in a multidisciplinary way. Climate action is not a combination of palliative measures and a few awareness campaigns, it does not pretend to be that, but it does require commitments and citizens to change some habitats. Climate action is a program of renewal of many structural elements of our economy and society because they can, in the end, continue to generate prosperity without damaging the climate and without being harmed by its change. It is for this reason that from the Department of Territories and Sustainability to the Government, but encapsulated by the Department of Territories, we view the emergence as an opportunity. Sometimes, when we talk about the word "opportunity" there is who associates it with an economic opportunity – which also has to be – but above all, what we think using the word "opportunity" is that we now have and we need to have very clear opportunity to change our life system. Let us consider that we must face these structural reforms decisively and courageously. And this is the will we've been working with for a long time, from the Climate Change Law that pushed the legitimate territorial advisor, friend Josep Rull, to the declaration of the climate emergency. I would like to remind you that the law was partially suspended by the Constitutional Court, that the previous government – the state government of the Spanish State before the present – maintained the appeal, but that, although we still have this law as a reference, and we complete the terms and actions it sets out. For example, the vantage point of the CO2 vehicle tax, a pioneering measure that we inge, is true that in 2019, but we can start charging this 2020. Final environmental taxation, which will be managed through two funds: the Climate Fund and the Nature Protection Fund or Natural Heritage Fund. The Climate Fund, therefore, must go to the right, precisely to..., basically, we believe, from the outset, to the decarbonization of mobility: public transport, the environmentalization of waves..., and the Natural Heritage Fund must go to nature-based solutions; therefore, to have better management of our natural parks, of our biodiversity, to be able to properly deploy the Natural Heritage Strategy and the biodiversity that the Government has approved a few months ago. Therefore, for this presupposition of 2020: 38,5_million euros; it is what the forecasts of entrances give us, but this will gradually increase; therefore, money that we will allocate, specific, concrete, to these ends. And also, as the government, we have already approved a first package of urgent measures. These measures include, for example, the Energy Transition Decree, which, at the level of the Department of Enterprise, but also with the help and cooperation of the Department of Territories, has to help more and more rapidly to deploy photovoltaic and wind energy. There's also a lack of legislative action, there's a lack of governance action, huh? I want to remind you of the 17th objective of the SDGs, which speaks of governance. Necessary, therefore, to fit, with all this collective will that we have, the Social Table of Climate Change, the Committee of Experts on Climate Change, the inter-departmental commission, to ask the whole government; everything that the Catalan energy agency does, or the First Catalan Climate Action Summit, which we celebrated on the 17th generation and which, in fact, you witnessed, was able to live it. The format in which we designed the summit we thought a lot – we thought a lot. We had found each other the previous weeks, in twelve sessions. You said what sectors we've gathered. And we were also able to talk to them and ask them about how far they were willing to go in these structural reforms. Many times, beyond the norm, beyond the laws, because we also need that, on the margin that we set a definite target with a certain date, if man – a company, an association – can also ask his associates – I am basically referring to employers – can acquire commitments under the norm, can have this climate ambition. This depends on many circumstances. And, therefore, the format of the summit was this; it is the First Catalan Climate Action Summit; you could have had a subtitle, which was: "the business world, to hear us, eh? And, therefore, it is true that, by saying only the First Climate Action Summit, I could give little to understand that it was a global, all-encompassing summit and that I touched all sectors. She was very focused, this first, on the business sector; we could have put this subtitle on her. There will be a second climate action summit, which will surely have another subtitle and which, in fact, we have already advanced that we want to do before there is the next COP, COP 26, which is to be celebrated in Glasgow, precisely to position ourselves as the country and go to Glasgow with concrete commitments. And we want to address it – now I will refer to it – to one of the aspects that you have put on the table. But in any case, we asked, at this first summit, all the sectors, 220 people, 100 businesses, who went through meetings we held in the department. And that day at the summit – it was dense in content – we also listened to many proposals from the business sector. Now what it's about is that it's preguin, isn't it? , general and sectoral commitments; we have related them, and we are very proactive to put together concrete results. We... on the sidelines of all the people we talked to, I want to say that the environmental organizations, the third environmental sector was there, participated in meetings, and was also present at the summit. And the young people who, therefore, are the protagonists of a whole program of green schools, which is a very complete program, some of which are also from Fridays for Future, also there were, we also talked about it. What's harder to fit, sometimes, is social activism, huh? , due to its precise condition of activism. But we will make efforts, we will continue to make efforts to, therefore, talk to them and participate in this joint action. In the presupposition, two_five_parts of the presupposition of the Department of Territori will be dedicated to climate action, basically through public transport and waste management. But our aspiration [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] is to coincide with what the European Union marks for 2027: the 25_percent of the assumption of the whole government, not only the environmental department, has to be dedicated to climate action. We want to get there before. The same way we want – I finish, President – to be able to subscribe to the European Green New Deal, which the European Commission has set itself for the first hundred days of government, at the Catalan level. The second climate action summit has to be that of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.53.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.54.0	...fix the Catalan green new deal. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.55.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on the Administration of Justice]] [[300-00229/12]] The next question is about the administration of justice, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. In order to expose her, has the word the deputy lady Maria Francisca Valle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.56.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Look, Enrique is a parent who has a salary of 1,300 euros per month. He's been fired. Your lawsuit, as your lawyer has told you, will take several months to resolve. Mary wants to divorce herself; her partner, no. He's become aggressive and overdrinked. She has begun to process the procedure, but she is afraid because she cannot leave the marital home with her two minor children. She doesn't have the means. His lawyer has told him that it will take at least several months to issue an order for interim measures; then, of course, it will have to be implemented. Jordi is self-employed, engaged in metal carpentry and a few months ago did a job for a company that has not yet paid him. He already carries several late payments, and the latter supposes the survival of his small business. Your lawyer has told you that it will take at least a year to collect, if it charges, because if the company declares itself insolvent you will not charge. Look, these are some of the many cases, of the more than nine hundred thousand cases that today collapse the Catalan courts. Behind these matters there are families, there are minors, there are people, but they have no choice but to go to court to solve their problems. And this is where the odyssey begins to get a resolution that, like it or not, will comply, because, if they are not in accordance with a judge's ruling, our rule of law provides us all, and also all of us, even if we are politicians, provide us, as I say, the necessary means, because if these people do not comply they know the consequences that they will have. And what do they find when they reach the courts? There are overworked judicial offices, where officials do more than they can. By the way, from here our respect and our appreciation for the effort they make under such adverse conditions. As you know, Counselor, in the last report of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia we were warned that family proceedings, dismissals and commercial jurisdiction had increased in already saturated offices. The courts work with very superior modules: the merchants, in a 325_per_cent; the civilians, in a 145_per_cent. I ask you: why do you think these matters are on the rise, dismissals, foreclosures, evictions? Because the Catalan economy is going badly. Just for that. It's getting worse. And if the economy worsens, the citizens, also the independenceists, become poorer. If there's more layoffs, it's because they close businesses, and if there's more rent defaults, creditor contests, or mortgage lawsuits, it's because people can't pay. It's obvious. By the way, the latter rise in Catalonia; a trend contrary to what happens in the rest of Spain, where they fall. And it is that the government that we have, with Mr Torra leading it, makes it even worse, because, with his actions, far from giving us the legal certainty we need for that economic stability, it stands as the biggest violator of the rules and therefore scares investors and tourism. But let's go on with the courts. These officials, who are overburdened with work, also have to endure the comparative aggravation with respect to other compañeros from other autonomous communities. Because the officials of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia are the worst paid in all of Spain. The specific complement – the only departure that depends on the autonomous community – is the lowest in the whole country. And it hasn't been revised since 2006. I ask you – tell us – why are these officials who belong to a transferred area the worst they charge? Why don't these games – which are up to you – fix them, don't climb them up? What measures will it implement? But not everything remains here, we must also talk about working conditions; damaged judicial equipment until it compromises the safety of those who work there, legal operators and those who are going to seek justice. Some examples: Sabadell or Gavà courts, the issue of air conditioning, which you know, have reached temperatures of more than thirty degrees, having to close even the facilities; Martorell courts, where structural deficiencies – which, by the way, you lied to; denied it in one of your appearances – endanger the integrity of people, fall ceilings, there is poor condition of electrical installations or poor prevention and evacuation in case of fire. He could also name many others: Tarragona, Gavà, Vic, Badalona. This summer he even called for the resignation of officials from his department. And these courts are still in the same situation today. Does it not seem to you, Counselor, that it is irresponsible on your part not to provide the necessary means for the safety and integrity of the people there? Can you tell us what your plan will be? Because, look, you don't fulfill your responsibility, which is to preserve the minimum safety and hygiene conditions that any worker deserves. You put the resources of the Administration not at the service of the citizens, but at your own service, at the interest of your party and your fellow citizens. I do not want to repeat to you what the money is spent on, because you all know it: the big games on TV3, the embassies or structures without any use, such as the Office of Civil and Political Rights. Faced with this scenario, incumbent officials who can choose destination go to other more attractive communities. And so, we can assume, yes, that Catalonia has the percentage of interim officials very high, each time increasing: in 2017, 41.54_per_cent; in 2018, 44.99, that is, half of the staff almost. And the situation is worsening because the temporary staff also suffer from a lack of specific training, and this disturbs the working dynamics. Because, of course, much of this training is done on working hours and by other officials, who have to stop attending to their own affairs to help the interim. More collapse. I'll add another little thing – the civil servants' casualties – which is systematically denied by the council, until two months later. And that leads to a vicious circle where officials are overloaded with work, or matters that are delayed four or five months and that are completely paralyzed. Will you take any action, Counselor? Look, you, counselor, do you really consider justice to be an essential service? Because in his last appearance he told us yes, but his facts contradict his words. Neither officials nor the Administration of Justice are a priority for you. And all of this you have also wanted to control the judiciary. Because the judiciary is the main stumbling block that has been found to consolidate the coup against democracy that they tried to strike on 6 and 7 September. That is why, since the beginning of the process, there has been a constant disregard for justice in order to undermine citizens' confidence in this institution and to degrade it in the eyes of citizens both nationally and internationally. The aim was and is to harass judges, prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice in order to double their interests. Let us recall the attacks on judicial headquarters, coercion and insults against judges and a continued attempt to scorn their work over and over again. And he's not alone here. In addition to these pressures, they have also tried to infer in the competences reserved for the judiciary. Like when they created from the Generalitat a body parallel to the judicial inspection, which were the evaluators, which, of course, was rejected. Or with the attempted espionage through computer data from the judges, who also caught them. In short, a campaign of harassment of the judiciary and what surrounds it. And they even wanted to withdraw security in the institutions. Faced with this continuing contempt, there is obviously a continuous exodus of judges who leave Catalonia to other destinations in order to be able to work with the necessary serenity and without degradation of their work. In 2017, twenty-one judges left Catalonia, forty-six vacancies; in 2018, forty-eight, seventy-three vacancies; in 2019, they continue to leave. And the same applies to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice. This clearly results in a clear injury to the citizen. Are you going to implement any measures to make Catalonia's destination more attractive to judges, prosecutors and lawyers in the administration of justice? In his first appearance he told us: "People must be placed at the centre of justice policies. Nothing to see; nothing to do with what you have done, advise: poor management and an administration of justice in worse conditions. And I ask you: what people have you put at the centre of justice policies? To the defendants of the trial, who are the only ones to whom you have really devoted your time. Because, where was the counselor when the roofs of Martorell's courts fell? Where were you, counselor, when the heat wave occurred in the Sabadell or Gavà courts? We saw her, yes, we saw her, yes, but in Madrid, in the front row sitting next to her friends who were being judged for the serious criminal acts committed. But the height of cynicism we saw in an interview that they did to you where it required institutional loyalty to the judiciary. You, counsel, demanding – demanding – loyalty to the judiciary, one of the most disloyal people with this institution. Look, counselor, institutional loyalty is to defend, when attacked, the members of an institution who deserve all respect from a person who holds their office; institutional loyalty is to proudly defend the needs of your department so that those who depend on you, counselor, have better working conditions. Institutional loyalty, Madam Counsellor, is to prioritise the defence of the interests of Catalans so that they have better services when they need to go to justice and not the interests of their party comrades who have seriously violated the parameters on which any Democrat must base himself. He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.57.0	Congresswoman, I should be on my way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.58.0	I'm done with this, President. Counsel, the defence of the interests of citizens and the guarantee of judicial protection are part of the dignity of a territory, that dignity which you have hidden under the cloak of an impossible independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, there is the word the Counselor of Justicia, the Lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.60.0	Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Well, well, I don't know where to start, because it's this mantra that you repeat to us all the time: judicial collapse... The question I would ask you: do you have a solution, justice? Look, this question, those of us who dedicate ourselves to the world of the right and those who have preceded us often do so, because no more presupposition to the Administration of Justice means better service to the Administration of Justice. And we're more likely than ever to have the same problems. Therefore, we would certainly have to do things substantially different because the Administration of Justice began to work. I am making some reflections on the presuppositional situation and, therefore, on the assumption that we will approve during these months, and I hope that you, if you are so concerned about the situation of the Administration of Justice, therefore align yourselves with the approval of this presupposition, because it means that it is a 6.9_per_cent more than the presupposition in justice of the year 2017; it is the highest presupposition with the Administration of Justice, destined to the Department of Justice, which has never made the Government of Catalonia in some presuppositions of the Generality. Therefore, I assume that as they are so concerned, both the Administration of Justice, you will not put in place any notice, as they say, therefore, to approve them, because it means an important assumption and it means more presumption for the Administration of Justice. You pose a whole series of questions and questions that you have already asked us, so you keep them in court sometimes, with parliamentary questions, and then you always conclude that we, the political representatives, the ones that we are in front of the Administration and, therefore, of the councils, ask ourselves that we must be neutral. So, look, I'll repeat the times that I have: the political representatives that we are in front of the departments of the Government of Catalonia represent a distinctly independent government, that every time that makes a political action and defense a determined policy of this Government is not neutral, because political action is never neutral, nor that of the departments of Justice or the Department of Interior, the Department of Territory, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. The departments of the Government of Catalonia can be neutral, as the Ministry of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain is neutral, as the Ministry of the Head of Government of the Democratic State is neutral. Why? So, because the political action that we develop has a political charge, and it says things and it wants to turn society into what we represent. Another thing is some other power. For example, the judiciary. The judiciary must be neutral, it cannot have a political burden, and here we can discuss a lot of things that I will not discuss with you here and now. Therefore, because I made it clear: the political powers, the political representatives, the democratically elected representatives of the citizenry are not neutral, they have a political charge, because they represent a certain ideology. Because I made them clear and because I stopped saying things that aren't normal, because if I didn't, it wouldn't be good for the citizenry to vote, it wouldn't be good for the citizenry to sort out its political representatives. So, the first one. Then, another blanket that comes and comes and comes on the subject of the justices that leave Catalonia and that... Miri, we could talk about the justices for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants. How many teas in Catalunya? It did. How many do they have in the Spanish State? Eleven. What is the middle of Europe, of the countries with a high democratic quality, the recommendations of the Council of Europe? Twenty-one. Hey, what are we in the middle of? So, when you ask us what's going on, why is the administration of justice collapsing, why does it turn out to be determined to end up in time, so ask 'why does the judicial plant continue to respond to a judicial plant of the 19th century and not of the 21st century; why the organization and therefore the deployment of the courts to the territory is still of the 19th century and not of the 21st century. Why do you know what they've done? They have modified the Organic Law of the Judiciary to keep it sometimes, to keep it sometimes. Every time, what do they do? Instead of changing the system of judicial demarcation, no: they continue to have the same judicial plant that, since the first draft of the Civil Court Law and, therefore, from here have gone increasing judicial organs and specializations, but the Administration of Justice is not reconsidered to give response to the citizenry. That's not true – that's not true. We, and indeed, must hear it that way, and I'll tell you the times that I do, we think that justice must be put in the service of the citizenry and not the citizenry in the service of justice. And with this I am speaking, for example, of this decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that the model should be changed in relation to the courts of male violence, which there is who thinks, as it is the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, that they should co-ordinate, that it has nothing to do with the trades, it has to do with something else. Or, for example, when they decided that with regard to the clauses only the most fantastic and wonderful solution is that there were provincial judgments, and that they did not understand the clauses only, so all the first instance judgments that would have to solve civil questions. Therefore, many decisions, which are decisions that make sense of consensus, in the case of institutions that have political responsibility to develop the Administration of Justice in Catalonia, for example, or in any case thinking of who the Administration of Justice should be serving. It is not the city in the service of the Administration of Justice, but the Administration of Justice in the service of the city. It is more, I say another thing: not justice against the citizenry. Therefore, there is a whole series of principles that long ago, long ago, that continue to hear principles of the nineteenth century and not principles of the twenty-first century, of an Administration of Justice of the twenty-first century, that should use other tools of response to the needs of citizens. Therefore, fixed, we would already want to have all the skills to be able to develop the Administration of Justice in another way. Another judicial plant; we cannot decide how the judicial plant is distributed to Catalonia, it is a decision that is made..., so, you already say the Organic Law of the Judiciary and, therefore, do not correspond to us. We would already like to have answers for many of the needs of the citizenry. But they can't. We would already want mediation and other alternative forms of conflict resolution, so it was mandatory for people to be part of the solution and not continue with this policy of promoting permanent litigation and permanent confrontation of citizens when a question is to be resolved. But for all this, for all that I'm telling you, you need to have a state. Well, when you say, you say – and take the mantra of a certain association of judges and magistrates – that the magistrates are leaving Catalonia, so it's not true. Moved out of Catalonia – I'm reading the memoir of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, eh? –, trasllats out of Catalunya, 2014, 38; 2015, 80; 2016, 73; 2017, 21; 2018, 48. And when you say, when you live, with the theme of judicial buildings, look, Madam of the Valley, in this period, in this period, I, this last month of December we have inaugurated two new judicial buildings. A period in which we are in presuppositional prorogation – presuppositional prorogation–, is to say, we have a presupposition of 2017, we have not approved another, and we continue in presuppositional prorogation. Two buildings nous: Mollet. We sell a historic debt to the city of Mollet, yes; a new crack building to give coverage to all the needs of the city of Mollet. Tortosa, a building also new to crack, to the beautiful middle of the old helmet of Tortosa that connects the city, the ancient with the modern, and that, moreover, rehabilitates and revives all that space, that area that was degrading. Build us of trinca, more than 100_million euros; more than 100_million euros. Do you think it's a small reversal? That it doesn't respond to the needs of the citizenry? All this history you've come up with in relation to Sabadell, the climate; Gava... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, but all this you know has been arranged, and you know that you have planned to reverse it. And you know that we have a planned reversal. We've also explained it to the Justice Commission sometimes, we'll explain it to you sometimes, but you insist on the anecdote turning it into a category. And I'll explain something else to you – then I'll talk about Martorell – and stop telling lies, stop lying, because it's not true what you say. And when you say that the people who work in the courts are in danger, are you also telling me that in all the buildings that see people, lords, lords, children, children, great people, young people, that see in those buildings where Martorell's courts have been located since more than thirty years ago, are they also in danger? Do you question the opinions and reports of the Bombers who say that there is no risk there? Is that what you're asking? Are you saying that? You have to stop saying things that aren't true, because you're doing politics a bad favor when you're doing this. They're doing a bad favor to politics, to the citizens and to the people who voted for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply has the word "Madam Maria Valle".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.62.0	Well, counselor, look, I, the first thing I have to tell you is that you have an ugly habit, you have the habit of trying to discredit others by saying they lie. How do you tell me... how do you come here, in parliamentary office, to tell me I'm lying? Ma'am, ma'am, ma'am, I could take the photo from Martorell's courthouses. [[the speaker shows the camera a photograph]] , to which you will refer later, the roof is supported. That's... today's saying, do you understand me? I don't know if the neighbors upstairs live in one way or live in another, no, I only know that the officials who work there are in danger of their safety. And that's what I'm telling you. The data I have told you I have taken from the memory of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and from the documents that are more than reliable. So, stop denigrating yourself by telling others it's us who lie, that's for starters. [[Greetings.]] Look, ma'am, you say, "They are so concerned about justice, so much, so much...We are so concerned about people. And I would have liked you to have explained to us here, on the subject of the budget, you would have explained to us all the questions I asked you. The worst-paid officials, you haven't made either an apex or an apex of response to this I've told you. Why? They are the worst paid officials in all of Spain. Look, you've made us here a story of the history of justice that I, as a matter of fact, have been quite, quite impressed. But let's face it, you tell us that if the domestic violence courts – as you have mentioned this – I have to tell you, do you know that we are the last community in Spain to implement domestic violence units and comprehensive forensic units? Do you know that we are the only community? That's called political will, because we're ruling in Andalusia and there's nothing there... I know, we entered January 2019 and already in July 2019, six months later, these units were implemented. You who go from so feminists, do something for women, if you really are, because, the truth is, you don't... well, you don't see anything about it. Look, of Spain's worst paid officials, as I told you, you neither with the independent republic nor without a republic, what is clear – what is clear – is that there will be no ice cream. Dessert ice cream, there won't be. That is, for some, for some as civil servants or as workers; for you, yes. Because it is fixed, in the budget presented to us the salary has been raised 33_per_cent, 33_per_cent. And officials are still to be charged the 2013 and 2014 extra payments, six years later, and above all, the supplement this specific, neither. What do you think? For you yes, for... Well, also for those of Podemos, the Lords of Podemos who also, as they have given support to the budgets, will surely also have ice cream. The rest of us have no right to ice cream. [[Greetings.]] Equipment. Equipment. If you had dedicated yourselves to doing what you had to do during this time of government, the equipment would not be as it is. You come here to boast that you have inaugurated the headquarters of Tortosa, the headquarters of Mollet... Very well, perfect, very well. But what about Martorell's courts? Falling apart. What about the Sabadell courts, ma'am? How are the Sabadell courts? No air conditioning. How long have you been like this? And how many are going to follow? Because according to you until 2021... we'll have to believe it's 2021. And, like those, a lot, but a lot. Look, you have an excuse, moreover, very simple, which is to make the comparison with Spain. And it is that, to see, I am convinced that there are judges in Spain, in the rest of Spain, who are much better and there are others who are much worse. But when you want to improve, you don't accept that simple excuse. You would have to look at the courts that are better, to implement also here in Catalonia and to use the resources that depend on you to do so. As far as the exodus of officials and judges is concerned, it is clear. To me, look, I'm surprised that you tell me this, because when..., you also know that with the establishment of the new judicial office the staff of officials is reduced and they lose another specific complement they have. An example I will give you, the example of the Bisbal d'Empordà, for example. And, look, the truth is that this is beginning to be tiring that the fault of the whole of Spain has, because you know that there is a decree..., with the decree of transfer of competences in the field of justice of 1996, a series of agreements and departures were made that the Generalitat would take charge of, material means. I am not going to defend, of course, those who have been in the Government of Spain, because so far they have set aside the Administration of Justice...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.63.0	Congresswoman, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.64.0	... but I will tell you – immediately, thank you – that in this matter you are fulfilling it, and it is you who, once again, fail. Finally, Counselor, I'm going to tell you... [[remorse of the voice]] I'm going to tell you an Arab proverb, I know: who wants to do something, finds a_medium; who doesn't want to do anything, looks for an excuse. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, that's it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the reply has the word the counselor, Mrs. Ester Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.66.0	We were, Mrs. De el Valle, the data that I use are from the memory of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, which, if read correctly, are those that I have said, they are not others, and that, therefore, they are published and are published on the website of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, in relation to the judgments that come and go from Catalonia. Therefore, they do not invent things that are certainly not. I don't lie, I've never lied. It's more, what you plant every day of Martorell's, to me, when I felt it... man, it's hard for me to know that you don't know how people are living in the upstairs buildings. This photograph you have taken every time at every Justice Commission. Miri, there is one thing certain: under the assumption of the Generality for Enguany, the one we intend to approve in this Parliament, is already the tender for the subject of Martorell. By the way, we just introduced the plot where we could build Martorell's new judicial building, an inversion of more than 5 million euros. You don't have much to do with this. So, my dear, continue with this mantra. And when you ask me about what they cover and what they earn from the public workers of the Government of Catalonia in the Administration of Justice, if you compare the figures of the civil servants of Catalonia with those of the civil servants of the Ministry of Justice, the Catalans are more well paid. Therefore, stop saying things that are certainly not. You always do the same, you barricade it, and all that. Miri, you know how Catalonia did it, what has Catalonia done since '96? So self-financing the creation of the five new judicial bodies that have put themselves into operation. It represents a structural expenditure for the public finances of the Generalitat of 280_million euros. The State's contribution to the Generality's finances to cover the need for justice in Catalonia does not represent 50_per_cent– nor does it represent 50_per_cent. You will tell me: "Well, you agree that I don't know what, that the... Listen to me, when we ask for institutional loyalty, we ask this: the financing of those obligations that the State has towards public servants that there is a certain autonomous community, like Catalonia, that it must be able to manage and it must be able to satisfy. I'll tell you, I'll give you some more data, because your data never talk about it. The Judicial Tax Act of 2005 had a very clear purpose: modernization of the administration of justice and justice free of charge and return of office. These judicial fees, it turns out, are collected by the Spanish public finances and go to the bossa comune de la hacienda pública. I, with regard to Catalonia, Catalonia recapta annually – annually, eh? – from 2005 until now, a fork ranging from 40 to 60 million euros. Do you know how much Catalonia has been awarded in relation to the judicial fees that are collected here, which is, therefore, due to the disputes between Catalans and Catalans and, therefore, to the jurisdictional activity generated by Catalonia? Do you know how much the Spanish State sends for this concept? Zero – zero. I would now be able to make the public investment in new technologies and, therefore, in the digital expedient and in a justice administration that works without paper; I would be able to explain it here. Do you know how much the State has invested or how much it has destined the State why Catalonia can continue to do this? Zero. We're already deploying e-Justice. as in criminal law, in criminal organs. So this has a presupposition cost, huh? , in the presumption of the Generality and the Department of Justice of Enguany, of 40_million euros. Do you know what he stands for...? Therefore, from 2005 until now, by virtue of judicial taxes, the State – which is not the provider of the service to Catalonia, but it is the Generality of Catalonia, the Department of Justice – has collected, by virtue of taxes, 400_million euros, from which Catalonia has not rejected a single cent of euro. And I could say to him: and he knows that the one representing the judicial consignments to Catalonia and the one representing in the conjunction of the tickets for the State and that Catalonia does not represent a cent of euro? And that was already explained by Councillor Vallès in his Green Paper on Justice Administration. And what happened long ago with the Spanish State? So I called and no one answered. I. when do you worry so much, for example, that they say that they care about the citizens of Catalonia, as it is that you never talk about them but, therefore, about the use of Catalan language in the Administration of Justice? , that it is a fundamental right of people to be able to be understood and, therefore, defended and that they can hold their senses and judicial resolutions in catalá? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Why don't you defend Catalans' and Catalans' fundamental rights, which they have right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.67.0	Counselor, I should be done, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.68.0	... to express himself in his language before the courts? I told you: an administration of justice to the service of the citizens, not the citizens to the service of the Administration of Justice. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the situation of young people]] [[300-00227/12]] The next item is the question to the Government on the situation of young people, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. To expose the inquiry has the word Mr. Pol Gibert. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.70.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... If I may, let's say, the assistants start calmly my inquiry and we switch sides... I just wanted to do a reflection, which obviously stops from the previous inquiry, but it's just that before it's meant that sometimes it's trick and there's no one else in the band. Now that they're tricking, maybe it'd be okay, when there's a tax policy conference and it's gonna finance, watch it, and maybe there'd be some appeals that we can get that we don't get right now. That said, I'll get into the subject we're dealing with today. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] It's not a new topic in this Parliament. As you know, President, I'd really like you to ask for a little silence, please; a little silence, because there's an important source of remorse.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.71.0	Please, shut up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.72.0	Thank you. It's not a new topic, the one we're dealing with today. As this Parliament is well aware, the situation of young people in Catalonia is a subject that is widely debated, paged, a specific committee to deal with it... But it is true that this parliamentary group has the feeling that since 2013, in which it was made the monographic plenary of the situation of young people in this Parliament – an important plethora that it was made in a summer period practically, a July 2013 in this Parliament, in which it seems that the actors who were then conjured up to try to push forward the situation of the young person, who was then very, very complicated – there was an absolute neglect on the part of the Government in matters of youth. And so we have lived with this parliamentary group, and also with the National Youth Council and a multitude of actors working in the youth field. And that's why today we want to re-emphasize this issue; a topic that comes up frequently but that doesn't stop being important. And, besides, we wanted to do it by, let's say, the action that was committed to doing the same government: we want to take the Youth Policy Action Plan 2017-2020, which is the plan that the government has to guide what is to be its full route and the government's action on youth issues, and we wanted to look at it now, which is the year in which the theory ends, so what happened and what didn't happen to this plan. We have a brief summary of what I told this young man's plaque. So, it's a seven-axis plan, and it's got 280_million euros in budget, in theory, encoded, axes that embrace the main problems of them and young people in Catalonia, and also the rest of the State, obviously, and that go from education, work, housing, health, participation or culture. All of them, you fear with great shortcomings in this country and that they were the object of detail by the governments but also Puigdemont in its moment. Arriving, as we say, at the end of this period, 2020, is the time to look back and look, these objectives, whether they have fulfilled or not they have complied with what has been predicted and what we can now achieve. And already the progress that the result is not positive; let's say, we won't fool anyone, if anyone can look at it with a quick retrospective about these last years. The first point there was to succeed in young people's educational trajectory. Catalonia has a drop-out rate of 17_per_cent, almost twice as much as the European average. It is obvious that this educational trajectory has not been successful, nor much less, for young people. We can also talk about the knowledge of the third language. And this Parliament, which approved that it was an essential requirement for the finish of the race to have a third language recognized, also had to approve a moratorium to make it not so, because, if not, people could not take the race if they had English as the third language approved. Therefore, we have not been successful on this issue either. We can also, of course, talk about university taxes, about the big issue that this Parliament has addressed for years and years and that it now seems that the downward pressure of the 30_per_cent drop, after years and years of struggles and student, political and parliamentary complaints, and that there has been a movement of expulsion of students from universities; almost nothing: a country that at a time when it did not offer employment to people who did not offer them a training course to thousands of students who had to abandon their studies. Also the FP, a way out also for many students who opted for vocational training; with a FP that has the law without deploying, with a FP that has taxes, when before it had no taxes, with which also a new barrier of access to vocational training. A recurring theme too, of which it almost takes place again in this Parliament: the Catalan mark of the quality of practices, a _mark that has also been established... – 2013 began to come out, this debate about the framework of practices in Catalonia. A compromise that the government assumed and in its last, let's say, compliment decree on a motion also presented for this group was compromised by writing that you were on the way to the next quarter of 2019. Today we are in the first quarter of 2020 and this Catalan brand is not in the market. And that's an issue we're worried about. A_marc that occupies, obviously, thousands of young people who feel exploited, with a cover on the form of scholarship, practice or what we want to talk about. But, obviously, an excuse to continue exploiting thousands of young people every year in this country. And when the National Youth Council, the European Youth Forum, asks that there be a quality framework of practices and there is, therefore, something failing in this country, when it is asked a year later. Also, obviously, we can get into the debate about the career path, which was the second example of this youthful Pla; and this is certainly what makes it most obvious that it hasn't had any success. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the fall in the activity rate was evident in the youth sector, a tax that had been recovering since 2016 and that obviously falls back. We have 50 percent of young people with a temporary contract, whether it's days, weeks or, if you're out, months. An increase in work accidents in the young collection; also a new phenomenon that worries, affecting the whole population but which particularly affects young people, and adds to this triangle that we have seen many times of temporality, partiality and lack of training, which ends up in work accidents and, unfortunately, in some dead, as we have seen in the last few months. We also see how the new platform economies – say no riders or say no – directly affect the youngest collection: the young, female, immigrant collection..., also this triangle that is the most precarious for society today. An economy that enters directly into the exploitation of, as you say, students or collectors who do not have access to a formal job and therefore end up engaged in a precarious job like this. And also a subject that has been widely demanded: a juvenile return plan. Looks like the government's starting to think about it. I don't remember..., I'm in this Parliament, so, five years, if I don't remember it badly, we're wearing like at least five years asking for this juvenile return card in this chamber. No case; no presupposition euro. Meanwhile, Andalusia, Extremadura and other autonomous communities became resources – not many, but they did – so that we could return here, recover talent and, obviously, be able to hold it to our economy, as well as we need. The third axis that enclosed this Pla of youth policies was emancipation. Youth emancipation has not corrected luckier than youth occupation. The rate of youth emancipation continues to fall, although in Catalonia it is one of the best, that in the rest of the State, especially for the coming of people from different provinces and from the rest of Europe, which brings us up this rate of youth emancipation. But we have to have 81 percent of young people – 81 percent of young people – between seventeen and thirty-four years living with parents. It's the highest xifra in 2002, long before the crisis. And here we could say: "Well, there are also teenagers who obviously live with their parents. Yeah. Let's bring teenagers: from twenty-five to twenty-nine years, a 60_per_cent still alive to the family home, and, if we want to go to the next case, from thirty to thirty-four years, a 30_per_cent. One of three young people over thirty years of age still lives with their parents or at their family home. And let's get a little bit of data on what I put on a young man so he can emancipate himself. A young person currently needs 62.4_percent of his annual salary to pay one_month's mortgage. That's right, before he can face the entrance of a piss, which accounts for 4.4 times his annual salary. In the case of being in Barcelona or around it every time wider, this is multiplied by a lot. And if we discard the purchase, because the vast majority of young people can't access it, the shopkeeper doesn't seem like an option either. According to this same study, a young person has to pay 94.4_percent of his salary to have a rest on living, while the year passed was five points less. Five points less in a year. And this middle is that of the state in general. If we take Catalonia's, a young person in Catalonia would have to dedicate 119_percent of his salary to paying an lloger. It is absolutely impossible for a young person to live alone in this country. And on this subject, obviously, before, when this crisis began, people used to do shared housing measures; they lived one, two, three people together to try to pay for an lloger. Now it's absolutely impossible: there must be four or five people in a piss to pay a _sun logger. And if it's in Barcelona, it's practically inexhaustible. But there are also several fears that they also focus on within this action plan that are missing in other areas. One of these is culture. And obviously, if we have young people who don't have resources, who have a precarious job, low wages, access to culture is difficult and, therefore, it is still more difficult for people who have resources and who don't have resources to access cultural consumption, a fact that obviously generates inequalities, and that an increase in attention to cultural VAT in the past few years has also not favoured this cultural consumption much less. Besides, adding that changes in consumption patterns in culture have also made this access difficult. There are various themes that were addressed in this action plan; also, obviously, salvation. We have a very difficult problem, which this Youth Commission has dealt with many times, as is the issue of protocols for youth suicide, with taxes that we have absolutely insurmountable to our country. In short, we see a country that is not for young people, a country that continues to leave a very important collection, that still remains in crisis after two years of crisis and post-crisis, a government that is not concerned, that does not devote resources and does not put in place measures to solve these problems of the young person. And if we do not put in place measures to solve the youth, our future is doomed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, has the word the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials i Família, the Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.74.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... MP Gibert, told the engineer that he wanted to start with a different amount than we had found ourselves... he started and ended with a different amount. And I thank him, in this sense, this whole thing. He's been talking about dropping out of youth politics. I don't agree. I think he's close, he's part of the parliamentary fencing, he's situated... Yes, if I may, and with all this, you've taken a rest from the various lines of the National Youth Board and made a rest from the various spheres – which were agreed with the same youthful fabric, with the same young ones – that they were to be the lines of action of the Government. He has made a rest and has made a rest, if I may, a point of thought, without taking into account all the dimensions and, which I am more concerned about his intervention – and I say this from the utmost respect and cordiality than I know – by observing the complexities and the multifactorial characteristics that explain the situation of young people, and especially in this country that has experienced a crisis and that has experienced a very complex situation, with a retreat in the field of social rights and labour rights driven in the first place by the modifications that the governments of the State have made, which they have much to see. From here, you know that we are now starting the evaluation process of the National Youth Platform and I am sure that they will participate in it for various lives. And I think we're close to making a good assessment, being self-critical with the elements that we haven't come out of, being very honest with the elements that are and that respond to factors that in some cases we don't have in our hands and, what's more important, redefining it and redefining it from a perspective that changed the logic that young people are the future of the country because I introduced the logic that young people are the present, and that we stop talking about getting young, but I just mean that young people are empowered and that we have to worry about it as we know that public policies allow this empowerment to mean a dignified life such as the one who wants to tell everyone from their autonomy and freedom. He's set me up in a lot of circles. It has, for example, placed me at the drop-out rate. And he knows perfectly well that this is a key concern for us. Now, I'm gonna set it up, too, because someone's listening to the data. When the National Youth Pla was launched, the school drop-out rate in Catalonia was 31.9_per_cent; now it's a 17, you said. And we're not happy. I'll double it. Now, are we an island? No, no, Country Valencia, currently, a 20.2. At Extremadura, currently, a 20.9. I'm not going over Melilla anymore, which is a 29.5. And where are the differences? Where the financing system is more just. And here it is. The Basque Country, a 6.9 per cent; it did leave, in 2010, a 13.1 per cent. In Navarra-Nafarroa, an 11,4; left, in 2010, 16.8 per cent. Set him up. And from here on out, what way are we working? We are very happy, and we know that it does not have the incidence at the level of the whole universe that it should have, but we think it shows that it is a very good way to act, that it is the centres of new opportunities and the centres of first opportunities, both those that we manage directly from the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, such as those that are managed from the Department of Education, such as those that we jointly manage: 80 percent of the boys and girls who go through a centre of new opportunities or are reintegrated into the educational field or join work. For us, a lot of work, if you want, a lot of surgery, a lot of personalization, are aware that the receptions of the education system before a very different reality from the youth must be much more flexible, and for us it is a good example of policies that we are pushing and that we will continue to push in every sense. He's got me down, too, and I'm gonna try... but, I mean, I said, there were a lot of fears and I'm gonna try to answer everything. About vocational training. We're not on the level we want. We are not at the level of European media. Now, we're way above state averages. And we have to say that, too. And, in this sense, we're happy. The work that we are doing together with the Education Department and the Work Department is, for the first time, honestly a willingness to integrate the two vocational training subsystems. And also a bunch of logics. When we talk about initial vocational training, we always think of a young person; when we talk about vocational training for employment, we always think of an adult person, and no: the regulated initial vocational training can give and must give and is giving responses to the adult population that is no longer young and the vocational training of the subsystem for employment and continuity must also give answers to young people, and, every time, we encourage projects and programs more linked to this reality. It's set me up in the field of work. It's that in the workplace, and I know it perfectly well, and we have discussed and discussed at times about the workplace, and I think there is one aspect, and I know that in the background, and not in the background, but also..., you agree: there has been a _marc and some labor reforms that have been paid for especially by the young man of this country – who has paid for them especially by the young man of this country. I call – call – that labor reforms are debarred. We can express it as we say: change them, change them... but change the logic of the work system. And he knows perfectly well that here he's had a lot to see in a normal framework – state competence – that what he's done is precarious. It's set me an activity fee. Yeah, you're right. But it should also be explained that the activity rate, this year, for the first time, after all years of crisis, the youth activity rate, again exceeds the activity rate of people who are not young, of seniors of thirty years: a 62.8 of young and a 61.5 of seniors of thirty years, more. It is true that in 2007, before the crisis, this activity rate reached a 72.3. And we're working there. But what we've been doing is coming out of some data that came to be around 50 percent of the activity rate. And the struggle against precariousness we have to do for many ways, we will continue to do it for many ways, but it needs a change in the normal labour market. Yes, it has..., that I believe that, in this sense, programs such as Youth Guarantee..., and the fact that in the department that I am close to coordinating are both the Directorate General of Youth as the SOC, has allowed us to design them better, and even we have had European recognitions. And I think that as long as we have to have self-esteem and explain it well, and it has been recognised at European level. It has been a fate that the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families have the skills in the youth field and also have the skills in the work field. The return of young people. To the assumptions we carry, and we have presented, they carry a programme of return of young people of 2,5_million euros, from the pact that has been made with the commons. The two competent units are already working on the design, because we are working together with the Directorate-General for Youth and the SOC. And we think it's an example. A compromise you asked for, now you've seen it. I'm talking about youth emancipation. There's a part that's work -- we've already placed it; there's a part that's habitating. I am glad that today we have come out of the meeting of the President of the Government of the State and of the Mayor of Barcelona that the President has said: "No, no; we will complete the agreement in the matter of control of loguers. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] What I was worried about was that, after agreeing to it, the Vice President of the Economy said they wouldn't complicate it. We're waiting to see, but I think we're all aware that a reality has to be addressed here, that's the price of the loguer. This government is not aware, it brought a decree...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.75.0	Counselor, I should be done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.76.0	...to approach it. He's going to fall. Likewise, we will continue to work, because it is absolutely necessary. And then we go on, because I've spent some time and, with different themes, I'm sure we'll continue to debate, with this whole...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.77.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.78.0	...that I think it's like a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.79.0	To make the reply, the Member has the word. Mr. Gibert, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.80.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the axes marked by the Youth Policy Platform did not decide them by this Member, they decided by the Government jointly with the youth entities. So, what I appreciate is what you agreed with them, let's just say; I'm not evaluating anything more than the one that gave that extensive plan, where it was very well explained every shaft and the assumption there was, right? And leave her to these actions, I'm not saying, I'm saying her premise, this one, the one from the previous year and the seven years before, where the young woman has never been a priority for this government, neither for her nor for the previous ones. I would remind you that, in this debate, let's say, we are paying for 2013. You know perfectly well why you said 2013; it was an important turning point in this Parliament, right? And you obviously also evoked the multifactorial cause of the young woman's situation. And I think we've made the greatest effort, let's just say, to be multifactorial in this intervention, touching various themes that affect young people. And I've done, let's say, in different points, it's focused on issues of occupation, that don't only affect emancipation, but also culture, access to different services, right? And, obviously, the situation of the young woman does not have a single cause, and we can go to European causes, of the State, competitions, let's say, autonomous, which is what we are dealing with here today, or municipalities, if we want to, right? But I wanted to focus, let's just say, to narrow it down, right? , in assessing the axes established by the Government, and, obviously, in four key themes to try to narrow the debate, right? One, I said, and this is absolutely all about you – of you in coordination, surely, with Education, with universities, isn't it? – that is to put the Quality of Practice Catalan mark in the way. This brand brings back years. And, in the end, it also despairs a little year encouraging proposals, making compliment checks that are said to be yes, that the week that sees, that the other, that the next month. We don't ask so much as a place where we debate this subject, and that we can narrow down a subject that affects thousands of young people in a silent way, that no one gives up and that exploits thousands of young people any day. The return plan. You tell me: "This year, there is a game of 2_million_i_mig. I'm celebrating. But how many years are we talking about the Youth Return Plan? My complaint also goes this way, goes for the accumulation of inaction for many years, and that now, obviously, 2020, we are glad that there is a youth return plan, but that we asked for 2013; we asked for a youth return plan seven years ago. And how many people could not enjoy this opportunity? You were also talking about the FP. Obviously, the FP is not just an educational policy dedicated to the young sector, nor much less; it is absolutely open to any kind of age, is it not? But it's obvious that a FP with taxes that weren't there before also makes it difficult to access the youngest people, that it's the one that doesn't have the resources to try to access them; a FP that is currently a job placement in many areas, including higher education in certain areas of activity, and that we obviously see how it's not deployed and how it has taxes that it didn't have before. And you live in it, don't you? , that the price of the logger should be regulated, and it is a debate, obviously, that it does not approach, let us say, to the autonomic chamber, because there are no competitions, but that it can speak absolutely. But how much public park did the generality make? What thrust has the Generalitat made on these types of policies? At present we are, let's say, at the expense of the will of the municipalities to build public promotions, and, luckily, in fans, and they get tired enough, but the part of the Government of the Generality is absolutely deficient. You are the third person to walk the Youth Guarantee, a theme, we say, that in this Parliament we have debated force intensively, let's say, and for years, right? And I was told that they had European recognitions, and I don't deny it, let's just say, they do, don't they? They also have other things on the part of Europe, such as claiming European funds not intended for the Youth Guarantee. They also have this, from Europe. With which, we are still aware that when we talk about Youth Guarantee we also talk about funds returned to the European Union. In short, counselor, what I came to say to him is that young people are a generation, as I said before, oblivious; oblivious because they do not speak, because they are invisible, because they do not get used to disturbing much, but obviously they are there, they are the future of our country, they are the present, and many of them are rolling their future. And that will have long-term consequences for this country, because that means families that are not formed, floors that are not coming, people that are not emancipated, with which we are creating a social problem that, in time, we will also see its consequences at the country level. For which, I claim, now that they have a presupposition agreement and that they have occasion and opportunity, also to inculcate-there nine parties that is focused in the youth. It's not a lost investment, it's an investment that surely has a lot of comeback, and that they deserve it, because it's been many years since they've suffered and it's time for someone to think about them all at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to make the answer, it's the counselor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.82.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies... Deputy Gilbert, no, no, I have not made any complaint about having laid all the axes of the National Youth Pla. So curiously... and you know it perfectly well, because we know each other from this time, from our age of youth activism, in different backgrounds, and we know each other from that time. No, I haven't, and when I haven't, I haven't complained, much less, that I've had a global perspective. What I said is that he didn't explain where, what are the factors to change everything, and where are the certain areas of competence. Because then, when they explain them, they explain them in a sloppy way. An element, the logger. The lloger, whom you do not want to touch, who say that the Generality does not have the capacity to touch, when you say: « Home, if the Councillor of Justice, who is here, from the Civil Code, can limit the prices of the areas of the land of conreu, why not? Yes, it's pot. We have a specificity. We take advantage of all the tools. I agree: you and I represent different political projects at the time of hearing this. It's all right. It's legitimate and it's legitimate. You find yourself comfortable in the current institutional framework of the Spanish State. I don't think I'm comfortable. I always explain: I want to have all the competitions. Now, while I don't have all the skills, I explore all the lives, and I use what I have and explore all the lives. It is the debate that we have had about the Catalan reference wage, which you have opposed. I think we need to explore this way, because that explains... because, you, when you gave the data about what it cost for a young person to access housing, their entrances, the Spanish State, and how much higher it is in Catalonia..., it goes for the costs of living. This is why we are defending this Catalan salary proposal of reference, because it is either taking this into account or giving a situation: that in this country, we have a lower rate of work, a higher activity rate and a higher average wage, there are more workers and workers at risk of poverty. And that's why, for the costs of living. So let's get to it. How do they approach you? For lives where we can. What? In the accompanying law, in the analysis, for all the public contracts you are a fan, we have the Labour Relations Board, as we do with social agents and economic agents, and as we can have a direct impact on collective bargaining because we can address it. It's looking for all these lives, the same way that in the field of practice in the university sphere we also want to make some of this vision. We have in the plethora of the Labour Relations Council a specific group on youth and work. Why? Because we're aware that it's the way to do it, with the unions, because it's here where we'll be capable of incidence, because of the competitive limitation we have. And we'll do it, and we want to do it. You have placed me – and I don't want to leave me, because you have reminded me again, in this sense – which way professional training..., and when I said integration..., is the bet for the agency. And I know it's a 2015 law, and I'm so aware, that we're having a hard time, but I don't think there's ever been a Education Councillor and a Work Councillor with this will to do it, ever, even though there's still the same political color, and you know it perfectly well: even though they were the same political color, there wasn't this will. For the first time there is, and I think we need to make the most of it. And that's where we're at. From here, the evaluation of the National Youth Platform will be done together, and be the first reviews, but also be honest at the time of talking about how many areas we can place. And, in this sense, I think we should have the capacity to work together to address structural problems affecting young people: labour reforms, access to housing... We need to have this element. And I'm sure we can hold it. Why? Because – and I say this very clearly – for this councillor, for the department that seeks to manage him, for the Government of the Generality it is a priority to speak of young people not as of the future, but of present, and to complete our responsibilities so that each one, from his autonomy and from his freedom, can have an emancipation and a process of dignified life. It's here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.83.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about external action]] [[300-00231/12]] The last question to the Government is about external action, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it has the word Mr. Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.84.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Mr Bosch, your department does not usually go unnoticed; its management always facilitates the work of the opposition and reminds us of the many things we have to change in Catalonia when a new parliamentary majority so permits. A couple of weeks ago his department was once again news: on the same day as Mr. President of the Government, Mr. Sánchez, authorized him to open three more delegations – in Tunisia, Argentina and Mexico – the TSJ of Catalonia closed six more: in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, the United States, Italy, Switzerland and France. It is fortunate that we still have justice in Spain to correct Mr Sánchez's concessions. In that sense, and on the line of the inquiry, I would like you to clarify how this situation is: whether you have already proceeded to comply with that sentence or whether, on the contrary, the department intends to appeal it. I'd like you to shed some light on that. Because, Mr. Bosch, I don't suppose you'll be surprised if I tell you that, from our party, we don't share your policy in the Department of Foreign Action. In fact, it would be more appropriate if your department, with you at the front, were to call you ‘external defamation'. You and your delegations do not promote the Catalan economy, culture, language; you are essentially dedicated to something else: to defame the Spanish institutions, so what your department does is actually act continuously with disloyalty, aspect which, by the way, is quite common in all the Government's councils. And, with these limbs, we can say that your department, besides being expensive, is quite inefficient. I told you the other day, in your budget appearance, that you claimed you had a modest budget; I told you that 76_million_euros in your hands was like giving matches to a pyromaniac, it seemed like a lot of money in your hands. While the great states of the European Union integrate their embassies to save costs, Catalonia tries to deploy, once again, an entire network of stone cardboard embassies around the world with the aim of whitewashing the process. And I say to him,'stone cardboard, but they are neither cheap nor harmless, because, as I have just explained, they are dedicated to lying about the plural reality of Catalonia and to discrediting the image of Spain.' In addition, the foreign action of the Generalitat is a waste of public money. This is why he insists that it would be more appropriate to say that his department should qualify itself as 'external defamation' rather than 'external action'. And you will understand that I am not lacking in reason to describe it this way: since you are a counselor, on each and every one of the trips that you or some high office of your department has gone abroad – it is true that always with quite little success – you have always dedicated yourselves to the same: to express insidious and false accusations against the Kingdom of Spain and its institutions, in a vain attempt, by the way, to whitewash the process. Come on, that actually outer action shines through your absence, as you dedicate yourself to something else. Therefore, with the approach of external action that you have, you understand that we would perfectly prefer to dispense with your delegations abroad, because, I insist, there is nothing to promote the Catalan economy, there is nothing to promote culture, language, tourism; nothing at all, only defamation and whitening of the process. In this, in terms of promoting the economy, culture and the Catalan language, his department presents a very worrying famile image. Therefore, I insist, it would be better to dispense with these delegations abroad, because he also knows well that for the important things we Catalans go to the network of Spanish diplomacy, the ambassadors and the consulates, so that we can truly solve the important problems that the Spanish..., the Catalans, in this case, on the outside, and not the delegations of the Generalitat. From the outset, the economic savings for the citizens would be important, not only because of the savings of their visits to those delegations, but also because of the cost of delegations abroad itself, it is that only Brussels alone costs us seven hundred and thousand euros per year to rent these offices. Understand, Mr Bosch, that I think the joke is quite expensive for what you really do on the outside. By the way, we are talking about delegations and you are also the Transparency Adviser. Why not allow foreign delegates to appear in this Parliament so that we can know firsthand what their foreign action is, and that they may also be subject to parliamentary control? It is surprising that you who fantasize about imitating the embassies..., is that the ambassadors of the Kingdom of Spain have an obligation to appear in the General Courts at the request of some parliamentary group. You know it perfectly well. And yet, delegates abroad, in an attempt to put a curtain that plugs their activity, prevents it. Why? And it's no use saying the law doesn't allow it. Well, if the law doesn't allow us to change it, but, listen, it's that you're the Transparency Advisor; you'd have to be a little bit more demanding with yourself and give a little example and allow those delegates abroad, the few that are currently in operation, to appear to submit to parliamentary control, because, I insist, it's unusual that they don't appear to give high explanations from the government abroad. And speaking of these delegations abroad, I would also like you to clarify one point. As he had previously stated at the beginning of the speech, on the same day as six delegations closed him, Mr Sánchez authorized him to open three more delegations, supposedly because the legal framework had changed and, therefore, it was already possible to reopen those delegations abroad. And I would like to know whether this is the result of an express agreement with the Socialist Party or not. Because I, by examining the public documents of both parties, by virtue of which they reached an investiture agreement, have not observed any point in this regard. And I would like you to clarify whether this is a point of agreement that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has allowed them to continue to open delegations abroad under the alibi of supposed legality. And I would also like to clarify whether this is really going to be a reality or merely an alibi and you are going to continue to do exactly the same, because then, there are only two things: either you are deceived to the Catalan separatists or, on the contrary, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party is cheating on all the Spaniards. But both things at the same time can't be. And, therefore, I would like you to clarify to me what point we are at, whether this is an agreement and that point in the agreement really what it is, because it gives us quite a lot of concern. Because I'm very afraid that, knowing you, what you're going to do is keep doing exactly what you're doing so far. I would therefore like you, in that sense, to be quite clear, so that you would tell us, in that sense, the truth. We also believe it is important – important – to tell us what they are going to do with those delegations that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has ordered them to close. I told you at first. We also believe that it is very important that you tell us where we are, to see if you in this case are going to comply with that judgment, whether you are going to disobey it or, on the contrary, are going to appeal it. I understand that it is an appeal, but I would like you to state it to me here, if you intend to appeal that sentence and for what legal purpose. Because, I insist, if reopening does not take place in compliance with the regulatory framework, reopening cannot take place. So, I insist, one of two: either you reopen them because you are going to comply with the regulatory framework or if, on the contrary, you are going to do the same as you are doing so far, you must comply with that judgment and therefore proceed to the immediate closure of them. I also understand, Mr Bosch, that, in the meantime, in that external action that you are carrying out outside Catalonia, the process will therefore remain the fundamental axis of that external action and, therefore, you will continue in that dynamic and self-destructive voracious image of Catalonia. But, already put into that drift of self-destruction of the image of Catalonia, at least they could do so telling the truth, telling the truth and not explaining lies and insidiaries about the situation of Spain, and they could tell truths. Look, I could explain truths like that Mr Torra has ceased to be a deputy and president of the Generalitat for being convicted of a crime of disobedience; they could say truths like that, thanks to the disastrous management of the Government, Catalonia leads Spain's most indebted autonomy, with more than 78,000_million_euros of public debt in 2018. I could say truths like that, thanks to you, Catalonia is the community with the most people awaiting surgery: 168,000 patients. Or tell truths like Catalonia is the community with the most barracks in which students study: twenty-thousand students study in more than a thousand barracks. That is to say, put to self-destruct our image on the outside, at least they could say it explaining the truth, as, for example, also that separatism, wasting and facing..., does not surprise us that the Community of Madrid surpasses us as an economic engine of Spain. In short, they could say what and do what, self-destruct us, but at least explaining the truth, at least they would be more honest and more honest on their part. You see, Mr Bosch, that we have few points in common about your external action, because, I insist, your external action is basically devoted to whitewashing the process and defaming the institutions of the Kingdom of Spain, but I believe that in this inquiry I have asked you a number of questions that I would like you to answer in your answer. And I do ask you to do so with a little more respect than the other day addressed Mrs Roldán, present today. Therefore, I ask you to answer me, but politely, that one thing is not in conflict with the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Foreign Affairs Councillor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.86.0	Yeah. Mr Serrano, therefore, I thank you for all the questions, and it is with the same kind of cordiality and in just correspondence that I will also answer, with all clarity. The first question, which I believe must be made very clear: the Generalitat de Catalunya has fifteen delegations abroad, all of which are operational, all of which are functioning and which are under their jurisdiction. Among other things, because, look, here I think I have to inform you in good time how it works. The closure and opening of delegations abroad, and the appointment or termination of delegates, correspond to the Government of the Generality. They don't correspond to the Government of Spain. Therefore, the Government of Espanya neither authorizes nor traps. The delegations we have opened are there because there are government agreements and the appointed delegates are there because there are also respect government agreements. The Government of Catalonia, and this is stipulated in the law. It's that it's nice, apart from being legitimate and necessary, that we do, right? So, when you say that there are some delegations that have been resorted to in their moment and that there is a feeling, yes, but it is given the circumstance that they have been resorted to for defects in form in their creation, before my stage as a counselor. These defects in form corrected them with other decrees, which repealed the previous ones. And the sentence on the first six decrees was given the circumstance – a little strange – that ended up suspending some delegations for defects in the form of their creation that no longer existed, that had been repealed. The creation decree of those six delegations had already been repealed, and the jutjats – not the Spanish government –, the jutjats, therefore, decided that they ordered the suspension of those delegations, which had already been, with their corresponding creation decrees, repealed. A strange thing, but it is seen that the courts, to this type of thing, devote a lot of time. In any case, the situation now is a situation of total regularity in all aspects, legal aspect, political aspect and in the aspect of the work done by the external delegations. And when you ask for the attendance of delegates from the Government of Catalonia, it is not that the law prevents it, the law does not prevent it, here who decides if anyone is appearing or not is the Parliament of Catalonia, of which you are members. If the Catalonian Parliament asks us to make these appearances, then we have no problem. I'm here, I'm here, I've been asked, I'm here. In this case because you have filed an inquiry, and no problem in comparing and explaining them the whole truth with total transparency, I would just miss it. If there is also a scheduled appearance, if I am not mistaken, of other members of the Foreign Secretary who depend on my advice, and will appear, and explain everything. It's that it's our job, it's part of our job to explain it clearly and without loving anything, because there's nothing to store. The external action of the Government of Catalonia is not only legal, but it is legitimate, as everyone else does, the cities do, the autonomous communities do, the countries do, the states do, the businesses do, the unions do, the universities do... it is logical that we make an international projection, because it is only, in a world every time more global and in such a competitive world, that we would end up getting back together. And that's not what we want for our country. You say we're defaming or defaming. I'll explain the things we do. For example, with the delegations and offices that we have outside Catalonia with data from 2018, so there was, there was a foreign investment attraction produced by proactive action of the Government of Catalonia, that is to say, 322_million euros were mobilised for eighty-four projects that fall within the Government of Catalonia, and 5,455 jobs were created for us. I mean, there's a return to this economic promotion thing that's also alienating him. That is to say, for every public euro of pressure with the action of the external projection and of the external promotion of the Generalitat of Catalonia they dare 129. For every euro 129, it's not a bad return, it's not a bad return. I would also ask you to explain to us what is the return to the stage of the People's Party of the Foreign Promotion that the Spanish Government did, and how many euros for each euro invested with this projection is gone, they managed to multiply. We are present at eleven international book festivals, one hundred and fifty universities in the world have offered Catalan language and culture studies, which the Government of Catalonia must do because other governments will not do so. So, we have to do it, it's a necessity and it's an obligation. The last three delegations that we have opened, Mexico, Argentina and Tunisia, for example – to which their party, at some point, referred that they were unnecessary – respond to totally strategic criteria. In Llatina America, the Catalan economy exports 4,147_million euros, of which 1,338_million euros to Mexico and 361,4_million euros to Argentina. The trend with exports to more, for what it does to Llatina America, is growing, and in the last few years it has grown markedly. There are 575 Catalan subsidiaries of 373 companies operating in Mexico, there are 285 Catalan subsidiaries of 181 companies operating in Argentina, Catalan companies. There are 30,700 Catalans living in Argentina and 30,000 teachers living in Mexico, and these people, with the respective delegations that have just opened and that are totally legal and not under judicious, as I said, so these people will feel more represented, helped, assisted in any of the needs of the countries where they live. And there are thousands, thousands of Argentines, a very important community, and also thousands of Mexicans living in Catalonia. So also, in bilateral relations with these countries, it is good that, somehow, they are assisted by the Government of Catalonia. Argentina, moreover, is the country of the world, historically, that counts with more Catalan couples, is to say, it is not only a very large community, that of Catalans who reside in Argentina, but also many years ago and there is a very long tradition of connections. And, of course, the coordination of the recognizable Catalan couples is done through my department, and we would like to do a lot more work, which we can do with very limited resources. And I insist, we are the department of the Generality that has the smallest assumption of length and that it has the most limited human resources, also of length, but with these reduced resources, so we have talented people, good work, because the team is very good, and so we end up doing that the international projection of Catalonia is multiple thanks to the action of the Government. For what he does in Tunisia, too, as the gateway to the continent of Africa, also one of the last delegations we have opened, which we decided to open because, well, there are also important intercancers that need to be maximized. For what Tunisia does and for what it does to the Maghreb in general, because it's a delegation that would cover the whole Maghreb. 20 percent of the foreigners residing in Catalonia are of lean origin, so this also inspires that these connections are reinforcing. We welcome her from the Union for the Mediterranean, which is the only great recognized international organization that has its own in Barcelona, as you know, the Palau de Pedralbes. Well, we want to contribute to the understanding between the two shores of the Mediterranean. It's good that we have a representation in the other Mediterranean band because we want a sea in which relationships begin, cultural, economic, touristic, artistic, academic..., of all kinds, of all types, and not that it's a conflict mark, it's not what we want, it's not our model. Therefore, with this we also believe that it is strategic to have a delegation to Tunisia. In summary, Mr Serrano, we – and with this we may disagree – believe that Catalonia must be present in the world. But I'm sure we agree on one thing, and it's that all countries don't just have the right to be represented on the world, but they have today, in full 21st century, the responsibility and obligation to internationalize, like businesses, cities, associations, like any human collection. Because in this world, in which distance, for what it does to communications and telecommunications, each time they are faster and shorter, you either internationalize or you lose on and you lose performance skills. And I'm sure, Mr Serrano, that you don't want this for Catalonia, and I'm sure you don't want this for any country in the world. Therefore, we do not want to go to any country in the world, nor do we want to go to Catalonia. And that's what inspires our work abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.87.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.88.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, I was saying that I would allow delegations to be re-opened abroad on an obvious point. I know that it is legally for the Generalitat to approve the decree for its reopening, but understand that, man, taking into account how the penultimate foreign minister of the Kingdom of Spain acted and taking into account how the current foreign minister of the Kingdom of Spain is acting, it gives me the impression that there is a kind of hidden pact between the Spanish Government and you to allow you to reopen or open new delegations abroad, because the current foreign minister did not do as Mr Borrell, who challenged the delegations, and has allowed you to reopen new delegations. And you have not answered me if this is the result of your own action or, on the contrary, there is an agreement, hidden or not hidden, or hidden from public opinion, between the Government of Spain, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and the Government of Catalonia and the Republican Left. And I would like, in that sense, if you could make it clear whether or not there is such an agreement, because, at least, we are very surprised by the change in attitude of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in this matter. As for transparency, man, I told you that being you the Transparency Advisor is true that you would have to have a special zeal in which your high offices..., it's no longer that it was at the request of the groups, is that at least they even appeared on part. It is that you are the Transparency Advisor, and at least your department should set an example and allow your senior officials – in this case, delegates abroad – to appear. If not, we should amend the Catalan law, which obliges delegates abroad to appear in Parliament. They are not subject to parliamentary control. It's not normal – it's not normal. And understand that some parliamentary groups may have a special interest in them showing up and actually explaining what they are doing abroad. Maybe they're doing a fantastic job, but we'd like you to explain it to us. We just don't know. And I think it is healthy, democratically speaking, that the high offices of the Generalitat could appear, obligatoryly or by their own will, to give explanations of what they are doing abroad, because, I insist, from what we see, read and learn, they are not doing anything positive really for the interest of Catalonia. Because we do not confuse staff either, Mr Bosch: here we are not talking about trade delegations, which do a great job, nor about tourism offices, we are talking about political – political delegations. You know perfectly well which ones I'm referring to. And those delegations do nothing for the general interest of the citizens in Catalonia or do nothing important for the Catalans who may be abroad. Let's give an example. Imagine if you imagine that a citizen around the world loses his DNI. He does not go to a delegation abroad; he goes where he has to go. The one who loses his passport. I know what foolish example I have set for you, and that is not why a political delegation – I insist, political – on the outside. We don't talk about commercial offices, which do a magnificent job, the offices d'Acció; we don't talk about tourist offices, for example; we don't talk about Ramon Llull. We are talking about political delegations that are dedicated to doing politics abroad, and a policy that, above all, do not convince us, because, I insist, the hundred_per_cent of the energies are used to whitewash the process and defame the Spanish institutions and to compare Spain with Turkey. And that's not fair, you know it's not fair – you know it's not fair – nor is it true. You, who spend the day criticizing Spanish justice... if you spend in it appealing! How can the alleged persecutor spend the day resorting to the courts of the alleged persecutor state? It doesn't make any sense, Mr Bosch. It's just that we're being ridiculous, inside and out! I understand that those political delegations are the ones that make no sense in the sense you give him in particular. And, I insist, we don't talk about tourism offices, we don't talk about trade delegations: we talk about political delegations that are dedicated to doing bad politics abroad. And that's what's not a receipt, because it's very expensive on top of us. It is that it is almost 7_million_of_euros, what we dedicate to delegations abroad, with rents that abhor anyone; especially for what they do, Mr Bosch. We don't share it, we don't see it on receipt. On top of that, we think they're inefficient and expensive. And, therefore, from our point of view, for what they do, it would be better to dispense with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.89.0	To make the later reply the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.90.0	Deputy Serrano, it's his parent, politically legitimate, but it's that things are going differently. You say: "The Catalan delegations do not process the DNI and do not process the driver's license. No, because, so to speak, they are neither the embassies nor the consulates of an independent state. You're complaining that they're not doing this. Well, so it's very easy: if we have a Catalan republic, they'll be right-wing ambassadors and we'll do it. It's different for what he does, for example – and you know it too – to the health card or the young book, huh? , of which, therefore, here there is..., no, they are important functions, no, and they have..., you see, the health card is very important, it won't tell me no. And, listen, you also say: "Here you should come the delegates as if they were ambassadors. I appreciate your consideration. I'd also like the delegates to come as ambassadors here, but now the Catalan Republic... so we haven't made it yet. We'll get there, huh? And at that time, then, they'll be considered ambassadors and everything that involves their responsibilities. I insist, I am appearing, whenever I am asked to attend, and, therefore, I continue to ask, and if Parliament asks us, we will have no problem with who I am from the department. Listen'm, the reports of the Spanish Government, it must be made clear that they are not binding – they are not binding. Make a report that's precept, but it's not binding, because the law defines it that way. Therefore, the offices, the delegations of the Government of Catalonia abroad, the Government of Catalonia, and do not – do not – agree with the Spanish Government or with the ministry of return. I don't think so, why do we have all the skills, huh? , to open these offices. The only thing that needs to be respected is the law. You always talk about respecting the law, so the only one who respects the law. And the law says these offices are legal and can be established. And the Law of External Action of the Parliament of Catalonia, which was approved here, so stipulates, and is not recurred. Therefore, let us act within the framework of legality, but also of the framework of necessity: it is necessary that we take external action, as for example you have very clearly in the Government of Andalusia. The Government of Andalusia has delegations in the same name as those of Catalonia, among which one in Mexico, one in the Maghreb, eh? I mean, in places too very similar, and they invest about 24_million euros in their action, which triples – triples – the cost of Catalan delegations, that is, it costs three times more. Catalonia invests 6_million_i_mig euros in its delegations, and the return is forty-two euros per capita; in the case of Andalusian delegations it is twenty-one euros per capita. And then you see me and you tell me that the delegations we open from Catalonia are not cheats, that it's a waste. But what malfeasance do you see? Compare the results of one another and the results of the other, which you have not abandoned. You do not consider them unnecessary, nor superfluous, nor an unnecessary expense to Andalucia; but in change here it is. Why? Why are we defaming ourselves? Listen, the Spanish government during the Borrell stage was dedicated to following up our delegates, from the work we did outside; he said, the same Minister Borrell, who spent a third of his time fighting independence. Home, this is a political action. We don't do that. We work in position, to multiply all those investments that are fan, to explain what the country's situation is, to explain that this is a country that is advancing, a country that is progressing in economic terms and that obviously also wants to be a just country and a free country. Of course we're explaining it, it's logical we're explaining it. Miri, "self-destructive? You say our delegations and outside action are self-destructive? Catalunya doesn't hurt Spain, the Government of Catalonia is not dedicated to mistalking of the Spanish Government. And when you quote this report about political prisoners in Spain and Turkey, let's point out that it is a report that is being pushed by the Council of Europe, in which you have deputies, is being pushed... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We respect the Council of Europe and the European institutions and the person they have appointed because you make this report. You have deputies at the Council of Europe. Do they not consider it an honorable institution, which obviously has to devote itself to doing those searches and to capturing that information that it considers necessary? It is that in the end the conclusion that it can be derived from this report, as from other reports made to the United Nations, or as the International Commission of Jurists has done, or as the International Federation of Human Rights has done, is that what hurts Spain, on many occasions, is the same Spanish Government. And in the PP stage we don't say, because the U of October images didn't do well in Spain, because the situation of political prisoners and political exiles doesn't do well in Spain. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We devote ourselves to acting in a positive way and to explaining the reality, never to acting against anyone, we act in favor of Catalonia. Do you share it or do you not share it? I have the hope that yes, that I shared that this action in position is necessary...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.91.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.92.0	...aside from being legal and legitimate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-07-4804.93.0	Thank you. After this intervention, there are no points in the order of the day. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
