ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Vagina sit on your scons, please. [[General debate on the management of residences for large and disabled people during the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[255-00011/12]] We will then proceed to the presentation and position on the resolution proposals subsequent to the general debate on the management of residences for large people and people with disabilities during the Covid-19 pandemic. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the order of statements and of voting on motions for resolutions shall be the order of submission to the Register. At the end of the speeches, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. The deadline for the telematic vote will end at three-quarters of eleven. For the defence of the motions for resolutions tabled, the groups and sub-groups of Parliament have the word "for five minutes" respectively. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.2.0	Good morning, all of you. We would like to begin the intervention with a thank you to the company and to the companies, some of them or some of the relatives of victims of the residences of great people, who are now concentrating on the Ciutadella Park and the door of this Parliament. If we have made this monogram and we are developing a commission of inquiry, they owe it to them and to them in two ways: to be able to respond to a whole series of uncertainties, but also to have acted as purposeful social movements, because that is the policy on the street that can also be passed on to the institution. We would like to make a global explanation of what are basically the set of motions for resolutions that we are bringing to this monographic plenary, and that, in a matter of fifty-four, fifty-six minutes, is going to vote in this plenary. First measures or group of measures: those that refer to issues of urgency, which should already be approved. And, therefore, we argue that from an architectural and physical point of view, there is also a need for residences; for another band, there is also a need for health care to be guaranteed by the public health system, because we have seen a great resignation of those who make private management out of residences – essential issue – and, thirdly, to guarantee workers and workers – and we are thinking above all of assistants and managerial assistants – a salary, a salary of 1,200_euros per fourteen payments, because we think that they are minimum for any worker or worker. That said, we also set up a whole series of measures, not of urgency, but if you needed in the short term, within the private management system, we want to remember, in which we do not believe. That's right, as we're not sectarians, one thing is that we don't believe it, and another thing is that we don't make a political proposal for what we have today. And the first thing we raise is the need to respond to the lists of hope that currently exist; the phone question, that no one stays out when they are making a petition. Second place, too, that we can effectively control this private management. And what we're putting in place is that the departures from the condition have as essential clauses 1,200_euros, a definition of what is the minimum health care service, a definition of what is the food, and with these elements, if they don't complete it, you can quickly and immediately extinguish the contract for failure of an essential clause. We also plant as a phonetic issue in the system if you need to see the construction of other spaces to be able to make this performance effective. And so, a whole series of measures that we think will also respond to this expression of private management. We have to insist, and they're clauses that... or they're references that appear in our resolution proposals, that we make proposals in a model that we don't believe in. Yes, we also make a proposal in the form of a motion for a resolution, so we think it is the solution to the effects of being able to guarantee a public service of quality of residences, both of large people and of people with some disability. And for us this happens, and we define it expressly in a motion for a resolution, to initiate an internalization process, and therefore to go to the public management of the residences. And let's explain when and how. When it will be, in any case, when vagina finishing the contracts. But let us also say another thing: if there is now the same private management that is incomplete and that which is incomplete are clauses that can be considered essential, immediate extinction, and, moreover, that the Public Administration is filing a claim for damages and damages. It can't be that they absolutely do what they want. And, lastly, obviously, throughout this journey, to accompany with a vision that, with a country perspective, we must begin to plan what would be this great network, which has not taken place in forty years, of residents of large people and of residents for people with disabilities, of public ownership, of public management, of the joint territory. He left me a later motion for a resolution, which is what he refers to in the municipal sphere. I have to acknowledge, as the honourable Member – and I have been made to see Mrs Naomi on the Street – that, perhaps, even more so, it is a motion for a resolution that in her description does not have the technical quality that we always call for in the group of parliamentary groups when they present motions or proposals for resolutions. Still, the will was – or is – that there may be, in any case, a possibility to agree between local authorities and the Government of Catalonia a transfer of ownership, agreed, as well as a necessary transfer of the assumption. And these are our proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.4.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Also add to the recognition and gratitude made by Mr Vidal Aragonese to the people who are at the door of Parliament, protesting, claiming their rights. And so, from here, from Parliament, we have been able to offer this monographic plenary and later the commission of inquiry. And let's hope, then, that it's where they can express everything they consider opportune. Two general findings. The first, for which you have to see the model. Reading the motions for resolutions from the rest of the parties, from parliamentary groups, I think we should say that we are not so far away. That is to say, from the point of view of the model, we all agree very much in what must be the parameters that set up a new care model of the future. There are some differences, logical and obvious, but I'm saying it because it might be good..., and the best favor we can do at the city council is to try to come to terms with it, or the one left in the legislature or the other, about who should be the model and execute it. So this is a pocket that we have left, because, I insist, I don't think we're that far away. For another band, I also found lack of concreteness in some of the proposals, which I thought could be good and refer to the elements of urgency that we would have to carry out in the proper months in the event of a resurgence. There have been many motions for resolutions with this lack of concreteness, generalizations, well-intentioned, but it is hard to know exactly what we are voting for or who is the concreteness that we are putting on the table. But, well, this is a responsibility of each parliamentary group, and I understand that everyone has done it the best possible way. On the proposals of the PSC, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. We have made our model proposal, which was already explained to the plenary the other day, which, I insist, coincides with some of those that have already been presented; but we also want to do and we have made reference to the conditions of the workers and of the workers, proposing an increase in staff; extending economic gratification to the professionals of the social services, to all those professionals that have worked during the Covid and that have not been contemplated in these gratifications, and that we also consider that it is a difficult comparison, because their task, therefore, has been functional, among other things, so that everything may come out of the best possible way, and, naturally, also an urgent increase in the number of people who have carried them to an increase in the number of workers, as well as in the number of workers. On home care services, we believe that there will be a 20_per_cent increase in non-professional caregiver services; it is essential, if we want to make the prevention task, and what cannot be done is that, in two assumptions followed, the year 2017 and this 2020, this game has been significantly reduced. And, for another band, resume the valuations of degree of dependence. In Catalonia, there are some territories where these values of degree of dependence are taken back. In some cases, it is done telematically, even with all the good will; but not at the conjunction of the Catalan territory. And therefore we believe that there must be a clear instruction, to say: "We are going to value people who have a degree of dependence, so that they can choose, among other things, the services that correspond to them and that there is no other chance, to see an increase in the list of people who are waiting, either to be valued, or to be on the job. I think we have been one of the few parliamentary groups that has put forward proposals for a resolution in relation to the day centres. We have talked a little about day centres, because during this pandemic the vast majority of them have shut down, not to mention all, and that these people who were in the day centre were going home and, in the best of cases, they had a home assistance service. They say in the best of cases, because there could not be home care for everyone; because the effects are the ones that are and logically those people who have a harder dependency situation have been prioritized. But day centers are a substantial element of our system of protection, too, and of attention to the great people. And, therefore, what we want is that there is a compromise from Parliament that urges the government to increase the modules. In these moments, an hour of day center is worth the same as an hour of travelling to Barcelona : 2,5_euros. This can't be – this can't be. At 2.5_euros the hour can't – or can't – make those who have to donate the service the gift with a certain quality. Because, in addition, in the day centres – and we also ask this – there may be people with a determined degree of dependence and others with a higher degree, and therefore attention is not the same for everyone. And here we should try to establish that these modules grow in a general way, but also in function of which is the profile of the person we are looking at, because, if not, they don't come up with the numbers, and they will never come out. From the point of view of the urgent measures, we have not wanted to make any concrete that we seem to be of fundamental importance. In the first place, two thousand new services linked to residence. I insist, now we have a problem, we'll have a few months from now, if fortunately the pandemic has passed, and it's the occupation of the residential environment and it's the list of hope that will grow. The best way, for us, is to build directly managed public residence spaces. But that's not in six months or four. And, therefore, the best way to occupy the places that at these times will be empty, because this is what the Covid requires, as the Government's plan says, and that, therefore, they must remain empty for if there is a rebound, and to occupy those that were already empty before the pandemic, that we have five thousand places of residence in Catalonia empty, is through services linked to residence, because the citizens can occupy them with a reasonable price. A thousand professionals in the residential area, in the exclusively residential area. It is well that the primary, therefore, also increases and such, but, in the residential area, and if possible, permanent, that it is not only for a time of Covid. Ensure that individual protection teams and PCRs and disinfections can be at the residences. We offer three months, if I don't remember, of provisioning. A thousand nine places of public residence, actually. They must be able to make places of public residence. Because one thing happens to us: there are places, cities, towns, in Catalonia, where the private investment will not arrive. And if the private investment doesn't come up, then, because the private can build and exploit a third-year residence, even if it's with concerted places, if we don't, from the public, maybe these people will be left without the service of residence and they will have to move many kilometers to hold it. Therefore, cal, especially in those territories that lack residential resources, be able to build from the public, residences to ensure care. We're talking about inspection and information, too. We're asking for a change in inspection regulations. I've already explained the past Tuesday: so we agree that it's what we have to inspect, as we have to value, and, indeed, we also ask for an increase in the inspection professionals so that they can get to all the residences, to all the inspections that we consider appropriate. And to improve and protocol an information system between residents, their family members and their caregivers, beyond that each of the residents can do so in the way you see fit, but there has to be a minimum information protocol and this must be completed. And, in this sense, we have residences that have done very well, very well, and others that have not. And, therefore, it cannot be that, depending on the residence where our family member is, we have one information or another; we have to have a minimum information, which, moreover, with the new technologies, I think can be done well. Incorporating Greetings from the Residences. This is another of the elements that we've all talked about and that there's also a force for coincidence in this. Some would do it one way or another... but we've all seen..., and the counselor, plus, she's done it in the final part of this Covid, and I think we share that she's been a lot better than primary care can get into the residences; so let's make this system permanent. We will have achieved something that we all ask for and that we have seen that has good results. Therefore, we want residences with a minimum sanitary equipment and professionals who know how to serve these equipment. It's so clear and obvious. Therefore, I believe that it can be put in a relatively fast way. And finally, in the last block, let's say, proposals, we talk about the third sector. The system of protection in Catalonia and our social policies are largely thanks to the third sector. And this has been a country bet for many years now that it has worked very well for us; that, in addition, it also makes a difference with other territories of the Spanish conjunction that do not have the fabric of the third sector that we have here, professionalized, with a certain power..., in addition, it contributes from the point of view of a very important Catalan gross domestic product. So, we're talking professional organizations that make a phone book there, even, where they don't arrive, let's just say, public actions, right? So, what we have to try to do is take care of them, and what we ask is to pay it back to what you say. And, besides, in the situation we're in. And neither are we talking about the economic quantities that are inexhaustible. Because, in addition, in many cases there are annual economic quantities, which each year must be able to pay. And in a few moments, so, like this, you have to make an increment. And, therefore, we ask, please, that the entities, NGOs, the disability sector, for which it does to the debtors, should be left to zero. A new file to the program contract to the joints. Now the gatherings are justifying those expenses that have been incurred during the Covid, extraordinary, so as to communicate them to the Generality, so that the expenses that have been incurred can be made effective. Perfect. But this expenditure will continue in the next few months in order to cope with the social and health crisis. So, the fastest way to do it... And here we have made a correction of our mistakes; thanks, too, to the Councils of the Republic Group. We say: "By decree. No; so it seems that by decree no, because it could still be slower. Then make me feel the right way, but do it, because it's important. And, finally, all that you have to see with attention in the services of people with disabilities, who have also suffered in a special way from this crisis, especially those who have special work centres, who have had to paralyze their activity; that, moreover, we find ourselves, for this period of Covid, at a time when the Sectoral Conference of Work is to meet in the proper weeks, and, therefore, here there has been a downside. Some have made ERTEs, others have had to suspend servers. And, therefore, for what it has to do with social and labour protection, it must be able to take care of itself. And, finally, therefore, we presented – after the speech we made the other day, the presentation of our motives – the failure to manage the councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Family. I think they have to take responsibility when things go wrong. And what we're doing is proposing this Parliament vote on this reprobation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs. Glòria Freixa has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.6.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning, everyone. First of all, today I would like to make my best record for Jordi's parents, for the father of Ferran, for the mother of Iñaki, for the mother of Gemma and Nuria, and for all those who have left us these days in such harsh circumstances. Thus, we must also thank all the citizens of Catalonia, who have shown their most solid face and who, at a time when we need to add efforts, are already through the organization of visits, the organization of tailors such as the cosiders of Grace, the volunteers of the Council for the Republic, the CDRs, they have also organized themselves to bring material and scale to residents and workers of the residences. Without all of them, that would have been a lot harder. And, especially, thanks to the workers of the welfare department, of Salut and to our president, who, on the most painful days they lived in this country's residences, devoted all his efforts with weekly meetings with all employers to help get out of this crisis. Also to parliamentary groups, because I know that all of us – all of us – have been on the side, also, of the people, listening – which is very important, listening – listening, listening to their needs, trying to mediate, trying to find solutions to the difficult situation. And above all to the Joan, to the Bet; to all those directors and workers of residences who worked tirelessly day by day, day and night, to find a way out before the lack of resources and the material of those first days. The president couldn't say better; we left our hair on it. There has been a huge effort of twenty-four hours a day to get out of that first moment of disconcerting and, in many cases, desperation. Because it was very clear to all of you, to all of the parliamentary groups: a pandemic is a situation of extreme gravity. And, as you yourselves have recognized, it has done the best it can. No effort has been spared to help, neither the Government nor the same citizenry. We know that it has affected the residences of all Europe. We know that this health crisis has also shown the weaknesses of a system that, in ancient times, as many of you have already exposed here, now you have to rethink. But above all, aware of the weaknesses of the system, we are willing to add efforts because this is not repeated again. And in this sense I think that all the proposals of the parliamentary groups of this chamber are a little bit much. All the groups demanded the first day that it was a paused, calm and sincere debate, and I think we did it and I think we should all be congratulated for having found this point of view. Now, all the models that are planted, that in many cases are the ones that we would want for our peers, for our opinions, for our own, are not alone, need a solid financing, and we all know it. And we also know the resources that this government has to deal with. If we do not want to speak out in the wind, if we believe it sincerely, I believe that all the groups of this chamber should be willing to approve the proposal that the groups that support the government make for a fairer financing, that the Catalans are paid the debt that the Spanish government has with us. One thing is that we are already starting from an unfair financing, and the other is that above all it is not satisfied with the payments already compromised by the Spanish State. I don't think you can deny that this 50/50 that was to be maintained and that it didn't work, that it ended up being 85_percent support by the Generality for only 15 of the Spanish State, and that every year is less, it's a situation that we can't support. The debt is clear: 3,649_million euros has stopped contributing the State until this 2019; repeated incompliments that we do not feel denounced by the groups of this chamber. I see, if it's clear, that even this time and again the Spanish government has made an instant proposal to complete with the percentage of funding granted between Catalonia and Spain according to the Law of Dependence. I think we're on the right track, which is the first time I feel them claiming a debt that hurts everyone and every Catalan. Maybe the eyes are open. Maybe it's a first step. Maybe they'll end up complaining at our side about education, security, and so many other areas where we expect them. They may now find that this is not just a hardship for the independence groups and Catalans who think of independence; they may now see that this hardship is for all of you, for your friends, for your parents, for you, and that this is social justice. Ask the commons and the Socialist Party, too, because this petition is not a whim, you know, it was serious, and especially now, because, in order to cope with this crisis, to get to work on the residential model that you yourself are planting, we also need you. And we expect you to feel clearly and loudly your view in Madrid because Catalonia rebi to what is left to you. I'm talking about models. I see many coincidences between the models that you are planting, between the most admired models at European level, such as the Nordic models, where the residences gather more widely, where in many cases they are small residences, medicalized, because, listen, no one wants to leave their home, no one. There are studies that show that only a 4_per_cent– only a 4_per_cent– of people voluntarily decide to go to a residence to spend their last days. Therefore, we don't want hospitals for our opinions and for our parents, we want to know where they can be well cared for, where they can feel at home. I suppose we've all visited a residence at some point in our lives, and they're surprised to see garden areas, playrooms, and even televisions programmed to watch football matches. And most of the time these rooms are empty, because they have explained it very well these days: the average age of notices entering residences is eighty-five years, and their health conditions are more likely to be precarious. So we're a long way from that model that inspired the residences in a principle, when the opinions that were left alone might decide to spend their last days in a residence to share with other people, to enjoy this stage of the end without having to worry about anything. All this makes us think, and it makes us think a lot. But, as I said, no somiate models that we plant are possible, no hope for the future, without adequate funding. The Nordic model is going backwards. Why? Because the amount of people up to this age and the entries that you assume to keep this idyllic model don't fit the reality. Imagine how we do it; we're far away, we're far away, and we don't even have the support of all of you to get there. We have to adapt to the current situation, we have to work, we want to work, we will work, and we hope to find them all to finish it. And, finally, I would also like to devote a few moments to talking about the many statements that have been made in this Parliament unjustly on the past Tuesday, because when Ciutadans told us "we have left our elders alone, we have failed them, I would like to remind them that, further than things have not been easy or managed, it has perhaps been perfect, the efforts have also been groaning, immense, to get out of this situation. And talking to talk without looking at one always ends up feeling sorry. Martín Durán, who is the president of the Federation of Majors' Organizations of Andalusia, said to them: "The Board is not acting transparently on this matter. The Workers' Committees have repeatedly denounced the occultism of the situation in Andalusia. I to the People's Party. It does not seem to me correct the criticisms of the management that was made last week taking into account who governs the Community of Madrid. We accept help and recommendations, but it would be good if the fessin's got to where they have real government power. We're not looking for culprits, but we're definitely advocates of transparency in managing it. I, in this painful crisis, still more. The Spanish government has requested data from autonomous communities on repeated occasions; it has been very difficult to keep them, and when they finally arrive, surprise: they have not been published. They haven't published yet. Maybe it's because, when they know, they won't want to come out here with accusations, looking for headlines, because they might be embarrassed. To thank, therefore, the Catalan Government for the information transparency it has had with all the citizens in managing this crisis and to give once more thanks to the directors and workers of the residents of Catalonia, which, if anything we can say with a great headline, is that they have given everything to me. And, finally, I asked for forgiveness; I asked for forgiveness of all those people who have suffered for everything where they did not arrive with proper management. It won't happen again. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, it is the turn of Mrs Yolanda López. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.8.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning to all of you. Just as some representatives of the parliamentary groups who have preceded me, we sympathize with the families of the residents who are now demonstrating in front of Parliament, just as we want to express our deepest condolences to the Members and Members of Parliament who have lost a family member in this crisis. Today we are putting an end to a plenary which, as Jessica Albiach, president of my parliamentary group, said on Tuesday, has certainly been one of the most important plenary sessions that have been held in recent years in this parliamentary seat, dealing with one of the fundamental issues that erupted during the toughest months that we have experienced in this crisis of the coronavirus and by which we play the role of strengthening the welfare state of the coming years; a plenary session that has served to reaffirm some issues as has been the evidence of the Government of Catalonia's inability to deal with the crisis of the Covid-19 in the residences. The Government of Catalonia, and especially the Department of Social Afers, did not manage the situation of the crisis of the Covid-19 in the residences during the first weeks of the pandemic, both in the lack of anticipation and reaction to prevent the virus from spreading in the residences, and in the lack of health management once the virus was within them. And this has a political responsibility, and that is why today both the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and we defend the reprobation of the management of the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials i Família, Chakir El Homrani, as the maximum responsible for the services of dependence and personal autonomy. Another important issue that we draw as the conclusion of this plenary session is that we cannot forget that the virus remains active, that we have not ended this crisis of the coronavirus, that there is not yet a vaccine, that we do not yet have a vaccine to eliminate it, and that, therefore, we need to be cautious and that there is an effective management to prevent resurgences like those that have appeared these days from reliving the dramatic situations that we have experienced in recent months. And to do that, we need measures now. The Government cannot again allow itself to be slow and inaction in the management of residences, so we need an urgent shock plan, as we have proposed from Catalonia in Comú Puem, for the new rebounds to catch us prepared and with the maximum protection of our elders. On the other hand, a very important issue is that a new model of residences is urgently needed, that of caring for dependent people, the quality of their services and the ability to cope with diverse situations, and we must be demanding in this regard. And it is on this premise that we have put forward in our motions for resolutions a clear and firm proposal on the change of model. And it will also be under this premise that we will refrain from voting in favour of the resolutions that have been tabled here today by some parliamentary groups in which there is a lack of clarity, courage and commitment to move towards a change of model. The proposals put forward by Junts per Cat, the People's Party and Citizens are unclear. You are not clear with the ownership of management, which is the basis on which to change the model. Therefore, do not expect us to be your accomplices to cover up reality, and that is that you do not bet on a model change. They already like this one, be clear, tell the truth; they have no intention of changing the model of residences. From Catalunya to Comú Pomem we have very clear the way forward, so we have been demanding for a very long time. The outsourcing of health care cannot be continued. One cannot say, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, one cannot speak of a change of model without talking about management, which is what you do in your motion for a resolution number 4 or as the People's Party does in its proposal number 6. It is time to put an end to the harmful conditions in which they work. We cannot talk about working conditions and not about wages. That is why we shall abstain in the motion for a resolution No. 9 by the People's Party or No. 4 by the People's Party, because you could bring forward proposals... which are really correct but, as I say to you, not brave and not concrete. To stop the precariousness goes by talking about decent wages, and if you do not intend to talk about them, it is that you do not intend to change this precarious model. We also vote no to the citizens' motion for a resolution No. 5, because you are putting forward a direct attack on the competences of Catalonia's autonomy, specifically in paragraph 2, when you ask the Government to urge the Government of Spain to draw up a white paper that makes a diagnosis of the situation and lays the foundations for the configuration of a national care system, as a system that defines a catalogue of services and that brings together in an integrated way all the centres, services and resources for public use, to meet the needs of the care of the whole population. To the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, tell them that we are going to vote yes to their proposals, but I suppose you know well that, apart from being little concrete and quite simple, you are proposing things that, after five years of managing the department in the Government of Catalonia, you have not done. It's five years. And, truth is, it's quite worrying, because you can draw two conclusions: that you don't know how to manage or that you just do propaganda and little more. It would not be wrong for them to begin to apply what they say and defend. On the motion for a resolution No 6 of the groups supporting the Government, it is true that we have had approximations on the conciliation model, but the reality is that in this motion for a resolution you do not make anything clear, but quite the contrary, it is quite confusing, and we will therefore see what the Councillor El Homrani will say when he makes the presentation of his proposal, hoping that it will go more in line with what you have been defending so far on the conciliation model and not in line with the motion for a resolution. We will vote in favour of all the resolutions of the CUP and the PSC. Finally, we regret that some parliamentary groups did not want to take advantage of this plenary in order to be able to make corrections on the model they are defending, and that their ineffectiveness has been demonstrated, and also that they have missed this opportunity to make courageous and concrete proposals on the changes required by the model of residences in Catalonia. It is true that we are moving a little further today, but honestly we are also looking forward to the Government's compliance with the motions for resolutions we are adopting here today. From Catalonia in Comú Puermos, we will remain firm to our principles, we will continue to prioritize and decide that it is necessary to open a new stage on the model of residences where the dignity of the people, the workers and the professionals is guaranteed, being aware that this is a key piece for strengthening our state of well-being, so that we never again leave our elderly unprotected or leave out a fundamental pillar of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi's Member of Parliament has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.10.0	Good morning, everyone. At this point no one can deny that this government acted late and badly in the management of the pandemic in the residences. The councillorship of Afers Socials was plunged into paralysis and opacity for too long; a time that was lost and, therefore, would have been invaluable in saving lives. We will talk about all this at length and in the committee of inquiry, but today we are here to propose immediate solutions to prevent residences from going back to the same fate in the coming months. It's not easy for me to do this surgery. Before I started or this pandemic didn't start, I had two grandmothers alive, now I only have one left. I am part of those thousands and thousands of Catalans who have lost a loved one in a residence; many of them, as has been said, are at the door of this Parliament, to whom, therefore, I want to transfer all my support and empathy. From my life experience I would like to move you or share with you the pain of the elderly people who have experienced all this Covid horror in the residences, often without understanding the scope of what was going on or why their anguish of seeing fellows and friends disappear from the residence, and the fear of being them next. I also want to share the anguish of families of the fear of receiving that phone call, so I would announce that you would never see your family member alive again, the mourning and the farewells that we have not been able to make. The last time I saw my grandmother alive was on an Instagram live that she did the residency every morning, and that's why I personally want to thank all those residences that have done well, all those workers that have left their skin. Unfortunately... [[Greetings.]] Unfortunately, we have not all had that luck, to say the least, as Mr Raúl Moreno has already said; unfortunately, there are too many cases in which family members have spent even more than fifteen days without having heard from their family members. We will also discuss this in the committee of inquiry. And in this plenary we will have the opportunity to adopt, therefore, one of the measures that Citizens have also presented to improve communication with family members and to open a channel of dialogue and participation between family members and residences. The effort of the workers to accompany our elders, we ask that it be rewarded by extending this extraordinary gratification to all, regardless of the ownership of the centre, and also that it can be extended to the workers of the home care service so that there are no workers of the first and second sectors. Despite some bad decisions, some actions or omissions of this government, I have to recognize them that I have no grudge; really the feeling that prevails lately in my mood is despair, despair for preserving the life of the other grandmother that remains with me alive, despair also for the political use of this pandemic to re-emphasize independence. I ask you, please, not to use this pandemic or its victims to sustain your political project and divide and divide and divide, because it is a lack of respect to those who are still crying the loss of a family member. It's not all right, gentlemen of Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya. I also despair that now Esquerra uses the euphemism of taking refuge in public when dozens of citizens' proposals have been laid down to build residences and public resources to care for dependence on the excuse that there has been no money, but, of course, for other things there has been. You have a very bad memory, but we are here to remind you, and in our proposals we are going to ask for the umpteenth time that both the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Spain put the piles and allocate enough budget to reduce waiting lists. The Deputy Fort was surprised that Citizens asked the Government of Spain for better funding of the Dependency Act in all autonomous communities. This is nothing new, we have already done it in the pacts for reconstruction in the Congress of Deputies, and, in fact, in my first intervention in this house, in the Parliament of Catalonia, it already does..., in the last legislature, in the first appearance, when Mrs Bassa, because, as a councillor, we held her hand, I myself held her hand to say that I could count on us to help ask the Government of Spain for better funding for all the autonomous communities, and all I got was laughter. But there it is. Citizens have been demanding for a long time that more resources be allocated to provide quality care for the elderly, to ensure decent working conditions for those who care for them, to reduce waiting lists, and, above all, to recognize the social value of care tasks, betting on a fairer sharing of these tasks. I was also desperate in my seat last week when I was listening to the president of En Comú Puem reir, with Citizens reaching out to the government to save lives and jobs. What does not make me any grace is that the most responsible of the residences at national level has been disappeared in combat, as if history were not with him; it does not make me any grace that when it comes to his own are not so demanding and do not ask for a reprobation from Mr. Churches, who also deserves it, and, I admit, neither does it make me any grace..., personally, eh? It does not do me any grace to reach out to a government presided over by a lord who has left in writing who considers people like me, therefore, mad beasts, and who at no time has asked for apologies or who has made the amago to retract himself. But do you know what's going on? That whether Mr. Torras is wrong or not acts to protect the citizens, we all sink with him. And I still have a grandmother alive and I could never forgive myself for not doing everything possible to make this Government or any other government take the necessary steps to preserve the health and life of any citizen at risk. I don't think it's time to create political instability with electoral calculations, because what we have to..., right now is time to save lives. I think it has been regrettable the lack of institutional loyalty of different governments by blaming each other for the lack of protective material rather than working in coordination to achieve it, as citizens did. That is, while the different governments were fighting, at my grandmother's residence the relatives and neighbors would start making the masks, because there was, desperately, no while we were witnessing the unfortunate spectacle that they were giving us those who ruled us. And I think we all have to do self-criticism. I believe that citizenship, in general, has been up to it, but politics has not been up to it. In Citizens during all these months we have met with entities and affected. We gave the Councillor a document with proposals to deal with this crisis of the Covid; realistic and viable proposals that we have expanded and presented in this plenary, to preserve the rights and dignity of the elderly. Let no one stay out of health care. We ask for a preventive plan prior to the contingency plan announced by the Government, because before taking action in case the virus enters a residence, we must take action to prevent the virus from entering! That is, prevention before the Covid, as my colleague Lorraine Roldán said, prevention before the Covid is the most effective weapon in residences. So let's collect protective material, test detection, expand staffing, improve coordination between administrations, ensure information to family members, and increase clean-up and disinfection tasks. We have not wanted to forget either the elderly people who do not live in the residences, that many of them have died alone in their homes without receiving a single visit from health personnel. We have tabled a motion for a resolution specifically for them, to combat this unwanted loneliness and to make available to them different resources and accompaniment. We want to announce that today we are not going to vote against any of the proposals that have been put forward in this plenary, against any of them. We will, of course, make some abstentions, in those proposals in which we do not share the form, but the substance, or in which we recognise the good intention behind it. I want to end this intervention with a memory of those who are not, of all those who are crying to them. I share your pain, your anger, your impotence at the arbitrary and unjust effects of this cruel disease. I understand the despair that can be felt in the face of decisions that have been made, or by which they have not been made. I want to move my commitment and that of my parliamentary group, Citizens, in the search for the truth in the Committee of Inquiry into Residences, and we will be very belligerent with what was not done well and we will come to the end so that this sad story cannot be repeated again. And I also reaffirm our commitment to the hand extended to all Catalans to continue working and pressing different governments to take measures to save lives and to dignify the memory of our elders. I don't care if some try to make a mockery, we won't get into that game. I think this kind of crisis brings out the best and the worst of people. Citizens made a decision, which is to put aside everything that could separate us from the rest of the parliamentary forces to make a common front in the preservation of life, which is what matters most right now. So, despite who weighs it, we're going to follow that line because that's how Citizens understand useful politics. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it now has the word MP Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies. Well, I would also like to begin by devoting my first words to conveying my condolences and the condolences of my entire parliamentary group to all those people and relatives who have lost some esteem in this pandemic. I have never tired of saying and claiming the value of the great people, and I will never stop doing it. Those of you who know me, you know I've done it every time I've been able and when I've talked so many times about social life as about health care. Those people who have made it possible with a lot of effort to the welfare system that we have today and that we need to continue to improve, the ones who fought the most for all and all are the ones who have lost the most now; above all the people who had a residence like their own. And this in evidence is two things: that we have to protect the most vulnerable and we have to be aware of the weaknesses of the model we have. We don't learn from what we're born of, our great people, and sometimes we don't value them enough, or what they deserve. And I can claim them also in their later stages of life, and that we keep the bird and the yachts in the center of all our policies and interventions. And yes, also to the residences, those spaces that must be the home of our opinions and avies. Some are where people and their needs must be given priority, never – never – the gain that can be taken by managers. Yes, I think I have to say: we're too used to feeling that prices have to be pushed, but not to feeling that the bird is the center of our attention. Covid reminded us that we are vulnerable, that we need each other, social fabric, cooperation, solidarity, the applause of the eight and the fact that we have put in the best of the state of welfare the defense of that public. As my friend and dear friend Raül Romeva says: precisely because we want to learn from, from all sides, the pandemic has to be the initiator of the revolt of the common good. No country, no society of the world was prepared to face a pandemic of this size. No government, no France, no Italy, no Spanish State, nor the Nordic countries, which are similar to the model we want to follow. As a matter of fact, the mortality was similar to the whole affair. All of us – all of us – have failed in one way or another; the administrations, the entities... Because the model has been built between all of us, and now we need to reflect, and a reflection to build one better and again for all of us. Deputy Moreno, as his own Minister Illa said : "Everyone was late, not just Spain. It should have been done more in advance. In fact, Mrs Ribas, as Vice-President Pablo Iglesias asked: "We were able to measure what was on us? Well, of course not. I suppose we'd agree with that. It has a little humility, like its political leaders in Madrid. As did Councilman El Homrani the day he gave the explanations. What's clear is that the virus... we don't know how it works. And we know that according to what the studies and experts gave us, and all the interventions taken by the governments, which have taken the entities, which have taken the administrations, have been based on the decisions taken by the experts. Entities. I would like to say that for us, and for the citizens of Catalonia, the entities are important, because they have shown us once and for all, historically, during the pandemic, that they have always been for the better of the social service system, a system based on quality, proximity and equity, which is close to citizenship and its needs. Social issues need stronger governance from the public sphere to help better coordinate all systems, public-social cooperation; the role of the social sector in our country is very important. As well, there is good coordination and strong governance in the public sphere to provide better public service. The key is public leadership and cooperation with other organisations and citizens, such as the empowered community. Let's talk about the anti-Florentine law, let's do it, a law that all of you worked with entities and what entities also supported, and that, besides, one of the objectives that you were pursuing was to establish good conditions of government contracts to serve people, which you refused – I remember them in case they got away with it. Our goal is to go to a model where our great people are in the center. And you, in your motions for resolutions, talk about the need for inspection and control by the government of the residences. That's what he does, and he doesn't do it without warning. Now, we want to be more useful to citizens and their real needs. And this will only be possible if we continue to deploy the decentralisation and territorial reorganisation of service units to people in the department. I think we've often forgotten who our great people care about, and I've told you an occupation technique that has been working for the past seven years with those women who voluntarily wanted to train to work for the residences, in occupational training. And I can assure them that they do so on a service and on a voluntary basis. Many are immigrant women who have agreed to go to the first line of fire during this pandemic. They are just as important as health workers, we have to put them at the same level. For this reason, we have a motion for a resolution that the only one who pursues is to dignify his work, but also to make visible the fevers of his working conditions. And the other motion for a resolution is one that demands a residential model that we want for our country. And this happens, first, to recognize the social service system as the foundational pillar of the welfare state and its contribution to cohesion and equal opportunities. And we must be brave and honest: how much are we willing to invest in our welfare system? I think that this is a responsibility of everyone here today, because they depend on us, depending on what we think we must have – at the cost of the assumptions – the welfare system. What we want is to go to a model of care centered on the people you put in for the zero-kilometer aging – as the counselor has said a lot of times – which boosts home care or integrates social and health care, as the Councillor El Homrani and the Councillor have announced with the creation of a public agency, a space that must also count on the visit of entities and experts. We need resources, and we all know that. That's why I'm asking you... Deputy Moreno, Congresswoman Ribas, since you're ruling in Madrid, I don't know if you know what the date of the 3,648_million euros you give to dependent people will be. We think that with this money we will be able to give compliments to many of the points of your financing resolution proposal. Because we have proposed to trade them, but you have decided that no, that you prefer not to do it with us. Well, we... Finally, I'd like to say something. Congresswoman Ribas, you announced in the communication media, before you heard or heard the councilman here, your reprobation. We consider this to be very disloyal. And it didn't change either... huh? I mean, he didn't take the point either. We believe that the counselors were very sincere in their speech in their debate and very empathetic in political management during the pandemic, and also very brave, because here they dared to place those points that could have been improved. And I think this is brave and honest and, above all, empathy. I, to finish – and finish [[the speaker laughs]] – I believe that today's debate is our great people, our great people in the residences, and I believe that the only way to protect our great people, the great people of this country, is to stop partisanship, to make a common front and to create a future for the great people, a better future and a model of quality, in which you are at the centre of all the attention and intervention of our great people. Thank you very much, and I hope that this debate that we have done today can do more sincerely and that we are putting ourselves to work and not to think about partyism that so much, as the truth, as the new Member of Parliament, has deceived me from parliamentarianism. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.14.0	Thank you, President. The management of the pandemic, of the Covid, by the Government of the Generalitat has been disastrous, we all know this, and the recognition of errors also implies that... the necessary sincerity that the moment requires. If, in general terms, the chaos, the improvisation, the lack of criteria – when not, often, contradictory – have been the constant tonic – and proof of this is the recent confinement of the Segrià –, in the case of the residences they have meant a real odyssey for the centers, for the older residents, but also for their workers and for the families, only in the face of a completely unprecedented health crisis, which we do not deny, dealing with a lack of means, with a governmental desire; the effective discrimination that has been made and the exclusion of the health care system to the elderly of seventy-five years are a reality, and all this, therefore, has had consequences. And the consequences are the worsening of the consequences of coronavirus especially on the most fragile people, on the residents of these geriatric centers. Having said that, I think it is time to be generous, to move away from partyism, to try to add efforts, and therefore, despite this description that I have made corresponding to the reality that we have suffered in Catalonia, we will focus all our efforts on improving, on preparing ourselves for the present, but also for the future. During the pandemic there were basically no clear instructions, adequate protocols, material, coordination of the residential system with the caregiver, and for this we propose the following: we propose to adequately equip the budgets of a contingency plan – you announced it, to us it seems little money –; to strengthen the measures of increase of beds and free places for a new resurgence; moreover to ensure the provision of protection material, not only for workers, but also for residents, because the key is the non-propagation of the virus; to strengthen the home care system, but also to create a specific program of individualized care of urgency that can be made effective just in the residential centers, and that can be done if we donate, we minimally medicalize those residences. All this without forgetting that we have to recognize and improve the conditions of workers in the sector... yes, also working, gentlemen of Podemos, also working. But also by offering them more training, which has often also caused them great difficulties, the lack of awareness of the pandemic and the lack of training. We know that we need to improve in the medium term, and that is why we are also proposing improvements to the model. If we are clear about the model, we are not going to criminalize the private offer of residential centers and geriatrics, gentlemen of Podemos, we are absolutely clear. And you know why? First, because we are not dogmatic; second, because we listen to the sector – it seems that you let yourselves be led by ideological prejudices and do not listen to them – and third, by a clear reading of reality: only 19_per_cent of the centers have been intervened, which means, if we are not apriorists, that the system in general has reacted to the magnitude of the tragedy. Deficiencies? Yes, and for that we are here, to improve those shortcomings, but not to point to the private sector as responsible for the magnitude of this tragedy. How can we improve that? Well, by improving, by offering more public residences. See? . Public............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We are aware: public. But also increasing the ratio of hierogulturists, signing a new Catalan convention on residences. And all this can only be tackled if we increase the budget line by EUR 300 million. You will say that it is a lot; we tell you that in two years it can be done, it lacks political will, but it can be done. Look, it can't be that the elderly were abandoned to their fate, and that's what happened. Now we know what we're up against, they're no longer worth the excuses, we already know. So, gentlemen of the Government – and I believe that the opposition is also on it – let us focus all our efforts on saving lives now, but also on improving life and the system so that in the future the farewell of those who have decided to be and spend their last days in a residence will be better. Because, in the end, learning from mistakes is an obligation in politics and I think we owe it to our elders.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. [[Pause.]] As long as they remember that they have to be in the seats they have assigned; if not, then we will have problems at the time of voting. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. I understand it's everybody. We shall therefore vote, first of all, on the motions for resolutions tabled for parliamentary groups and sub-groups following the order for submission to the register, in accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure and, finally, on the two compromise proposals that have been put forward. Before the advent of the fact that for this plenary session seventy-seven Members and Members have delegated their vote, they have joined the telematic vote and thirty-nine Members and Members will vote in person. Let's vote first on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. Let's start with the first of these. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Didn't it work, Congresswoman? You're sure you're close to him, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We're looking at it now. [[Long break.]] All right, theoretically it's settled. Therefore, we again vote on the proposal for resolution No. 1 of the CUP - Crida Constituent. The vote begins. This proposal was rejected by 12 votes to 86, with 36 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 12 votes to 4, with 112 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 12 votes to 21, with 101 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. The resolution was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 7. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 94 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 52 votes to 82 – 64 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with 47 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents. And we vote at 10. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 48 votes in favour, 65 against – 47 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents – and 21 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. Let's vote number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. And we vote on number three. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. Let's vote number four. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7 with the built-in error correction, which refers to the withdrawal of points 3, 4 and 6 of the resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 94 votes in favour – 76 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents – against 40 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 8 with the built-in error correction, which affects point 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. I am guessing that motions for resolutions 9 and 10 have been negotiated and we will vote for them at the end. So let us now vote on the package of motions for resolutions tabled for the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group. We are voting, first of all, on the motion for a resolution number 1. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 126 votes in favour – 108 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents – against, 8 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. It was adopted by 126 votes in favour, against and eight abstentions. And let's now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Motion for a resolution No 1 has therefore been dealt with, so we will also vote on it at the end. And we therefore vote on number 2. The vote begins. It was approved by 98 votes to 80 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents, against 36 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Motion for a resolution No. 4 has also been dealt with and, therefore, we will also vote on it at the end. Let's now vote for number five. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 69 against—correspondents to 51 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics—36 abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We vote on resolution No. 8 with the built-in error correction, which affects points 3 and 6 of the proposal. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote for number 2 with the built-in error correction, which affects your number 2 point. The vote begins. It was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is, unanimously. Let us now vote on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against—correspondents to 51 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics—no abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 61 votes to 73. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 73, with 21 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 57 votes in favour, against and 77 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 7 was adopted by 126 votes to none, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now at 8. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting number 9 with the built-in error correction, which affects your point number 4. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 126 votes to none, with 8 abstentions. And now we vote on number 10 with the built-in error correction, which affects the last two points of the proposal. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions – correspondents to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics. We now vote on the motions for resolutions submitted jointly for the Republican Parliamentary Group and for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 95 votes in favour, with 39 abstentions. And we vote on number two. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let's vote number three. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. It was adopted by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. We shall now vote on resolution No. 6. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by 86 votes in favour – correspondents to 68 of face-to-face and delegates and 18 of telematics – 12 against, 36 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we vote on number 8. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting number 9. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 126 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 11 was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 12. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we vote on number 13. The vote begins. Approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on number 14. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 51 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents, 21 against, 44 abstentions. We're voting now at 15. The vote begins. It was approved by 73 votes to 55 in favour, 25 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting now at 16. The vote begins. It was adopted by 117 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. In this vote there was a tie to 65 votes: 65 yes, 65 nos – correspondents to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics – 4 abstentions. So let's go back to a second vote. The vote begins. The same vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, let us leave this motion for a resolution for a third vote at the end, when we open a special turn to do so. Let's move on to the next motion for a resolution, which is number two. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 122 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 122 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 65 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution 6 with the built-in error correction that affects your point number 2. The vote begins. It has been approved by 90 votes in favour – correspondents to 72 face-to-face and delegates and 18 telematics – against 44 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 7. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to four, with 65 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 9. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes in favour, 65 against – 47 face-to-face and delegates and 18 telematics correspondents – with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the compromise proposals. We vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 10 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar and the proposal for resolution No. 1 of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem. The vote begins. In this motion for a resolution there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against – 47 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents – 4 abstentions. We vote, therefore, a second time. The vote begins. There was again the same tie of 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. So let's leave it at the end, as we say, that we open a specific turn to vote. Let us now vote on the compromise proposal between the proposals for Resolution No. 9 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar and the proposal for Resolution No. 4 of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem. The vote begins. There was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against – 47 delegates and face-to-face and 18 telematics correspondents – 4 abstentions. Therefore, therefore, let us return to the vote. The vote begins. The same vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. We will now open a 15-minute recess, so as to open this return in order to be able to vote, also telematically, in those three motions for resolutions – the two compromises and the motion for resolution 1 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia – in which there has been a pact. So, we're doing the 15-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.16.0	All right. We shall therefore vote again on the three motions for resolutions in which a double vote had taken place. I vote in the first place, again, the motion for resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. The same vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, the motion for a resolution lapses. Let us now vote on the two compromise motions for resolutions. In the first place, we vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 10 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress and the proposal for resolution No. 1 of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem. Vote. The vote begins. [[The secretary then intervenes without using the microphone.]] Excuse me. No, it's just that this compromise resolution proposal had been pre-readed, and I didn't... I moved on. Therefore, ask – we will vote again – the secretary, Mr Pérez, who reads it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.17.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. « Transactional resolution proposal: the Parliament of Catalonia rejects the management of the councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Chakir El Homrani, as the most responsible of the services of dependence and personal autonomy, for the lack of forecast and reaction before the crisis of the coronavirus to the residents of the great people and for the difficult consequences that the mismanagement carried out in the first weeks of the pandemic has had.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-10-5704.18.0	Now yes, let us vote on this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. Again, there was also the same tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, this motion for a resolution is rejected. I finally vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution No. 9 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress and the proposal for resolution No. 4 of the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem. The vote begins. Similarly, there was the same tie again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against – 47 delegates and face-to-face correspondents and 18 telematics – 4 abstentions. Therefore, this compromise resolution proposal is rejected. There are no more proposals to vote, there are no more items on the agenda; therefore, the sitting rises. Thank you.
