ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. [[Proposal for the creation law of the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights (totality debate)]] [[202-00078/12]] We resume the session with the agenda item, which corresponds to the totality of the proposed law of creation of the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights. In accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall start this debate entirely with the intervention of one representative of each group and proposed parliamentary sub-groups, for a maximum of fifteen minutes each of the groups, and seven minutes and a half per sub-group. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. Also, thank the people who may be following this debate through the media offered by the Parliament of Catalonia for their attention. The truth is that, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, we think this is an important debate. Even though it may be only a first step, with the creation of this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights..., because, in the background, today we are in the debate of the totality, the debate that could be said of admission to the process of parliamentary initiative; and, therefore, there is still the legislative process that you need to make this proposal of law. And, besides, he didn't feel like he'd have to: we'll probably find ourselves at the end of the legislature. And, therefore, at some point it will take the initiative back, but we think it is important to take this first step. And that is why we were very much in agreement with the rest of the groups proposing this initiative to the plenary, before the plenary, for their consideration by the group of Members and the members of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups. Because this, which is an initiative that is already a few years ago from civil society and the academic world..., an initiative to which the parliamentary groups and the Government of the Catalonian Government of students responded, in a study session, in a parliamentary session in which the assembly of the parliamentary arch or the total practice of the parliamentary arch committed itself to launching competitive initiatives or aimed at the creation of this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights. And this was also a compromise acquired by Parliament. Therefore, this impulse of civil society I think you already say something respect the years of reflection and struggle that is behind the creation of a center like this. And then I'll go back to the bottom of the assumption. But, formally, I would like to explain the course of the initiative. Because, as I say, there was this compromise of almost the totality of the parliamentary arch, as well as the government. There were, then, two renewals of this compromise – in the form, first, of a resolution adopted in the plenary of the Parliament, and then of a motion approved also in the plenary of the Parliament – which insisted on this. The year 2016, the resolution, the year 2019, the motion, insist on the creation of the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights. And it's true – and I think it's also to be said – that the existing Strategic Cooperation Platform foresees the creation of this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights. But that was a long time ago at the end of this path. In these four years, four years and years, in which the entities of civil society, and also from the academic field, were pressured by the fact that this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights was created, it is certain that the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, for the reasons that it is – because there have been titular successes, also, at the head of the department, and, in fact, there have been different governments–, therefore, has not been able to bring to Parliament the news of the creation of this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights. Finally, therefore, the entities, because we cannot attribute the material authorship of the initiative to us, whatever we have done, from parliamentary groups, our observations and proposals..., but from the entities of organised civil society this proposal of law has been promoted. A law proposal that, from our parliamentary group, we consider – as the group that subscribes to it – that contains the requirements necessary to be able to advance in its legislative process. That, because of its origin and the way it is promoted, they cannot strictly consider us. We wouldn't do it in the sense of assigning it to ourselves, or in the sense of giving up the fact that in the legislative process we bring our points of view and what we think or think we could contribute to the better of the final product, would we? , of a better Centre Català d'Empresa i Drets Humans. But in any case, we do think that it is necessary to take this step that we are asking the chamber today, that it is that it is allowed to process and initiate its procedure, its legislative processing. In short, when I told them before I did a reflection on the background..., I will try not to extend'mmolt and not to exhaust time, because I think it counts with a broad consensus to the chamber, the initiative. But the truth is that we understand that neither the governments nor the legislative chambers of the countries that count on their economy, their social and economic trafficking, with companies, with companies that, while still transnational, have the capacity to make investments and affect, with them, at times, social, labour rights, the environment and even all the rights of the original peoples..., have the obligation, therefore, to regulate it in some way. In fact, in 2014, the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations adopted Resolution 26/9, for the elaboration of an international legally binding instrument on transnational and other enterprises respecting human rights. And we consider that what we need to do, even if this is no longer a tangible reality, is to align internal orders with those objectives that are proposed at the international level. And we trust that, later than now, they will settle down. And this proposal, this initiative to create a Catalan Centre for Business and Human Rights goes on this line, right? We do not think that it is necessary, to say so, to censor the fact that there are investments by Catalan companies or that there is a trade from Catalonia to foreign it. What must be very curative and very vigilant is that there is no contradiction in the public policies of the Government of Catalonia, in this case, because it is that we are dealing with, when, for a band, with all external action, of cooperation in the development that it deploys, of promotion of the pa, respect for human rights and sustainable human development, it makes a whole series of policies and makes certain efforts; and, for the other band, it might be that, if it is not very vigilant and is not very careful, it does not inspect so far, therefore, the policies of promotion of the internationalization of Catalan enterprises, or other policies, let us say, of the promotion of Catalan enterprises abroad, can be found with others. Hence the principle of coherence of public policies, which is contained in various provisions of our order. Therefore, we believe that this is an initiative that is consistent with these objectives that there is a coherence of public policies in the field of external action. And that, obviously, then, is a step forward. I say this, companies, Catalans and transnationals, companies of any kind, when they invest, as the logic of our mode of production is, let us say, the maximization of the benefit in the minimum possible time and without other considerations of social, labour or environmental type..., and these considerations are necessary to contain the orders, regulations, those of the recipient countries of the investments, but also international regulation, and also those of the countries, let us tell us, where these investments originate. These investments, therefore, are likely to harm the rights of indigenous peoples, for example, because they do not consult extractive operations of natural resources, water resources, for example, or mining resources; they are likely to violate labour and human rights. And, therefore, from this point of view, and I'm not referring only to the extractive activities, also the productive ones, huh? But in any case, we think it's very important that this Catalan Business Centre and Human Rights can start working. In the background, what are we talking about? We are talking about the creation of a public body, an entity under public law, which is accountable to civil society, to the Parliament and to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which joins the Department of Foreign Affairs, and which has as its purpose the study, evaluation, control and regulatory innovation in this area, in this field of which we have been talking. With the aim, as I said, of guaranteeing a public and private Catalan external action which is a reference in the international arena. This may be ambition, but in any case, it is a reference in the field of respect for human rights, international law and international instruments for respect for human rights. And there's a series of functions that define the law. The law has thirteen articles, three transitory dispositions. It's a law, let's say, relatively simple creation of this organism. But it does include a series of functions and competencies, among which they are preventing and alerting, in relation to those external activities of entrepreneurs operating in Catalonia that may lead to a possible violation of human rights, the promotion of peace and sustainable human development, investigation, inspection and follow-up of complaints formulated for these possible violations. Complaints that can be referred to the centre, either by persons or communities directly affected or by entities and social organizations. This centre may require companies to provide the information necessary for the clarification of the reported facts. And, as a consequence of this, it is also envisaged, among the functions of the centre, that the power to sanction enterprises that do not respond, or do not respond, in an inadequate or inadequate way, to the requirements of the centre. Therefore, it is not so much a sanctioning power that responds directly to the fact that it imputes itself, but rather to the fact that it does not provide the information or documentation that is required from the centre. Also, among the functions, there is to draw up proposals that guarantee inclusion by the Catalonian Public Administration of human rights-based clauses; the development of binding instructions that require inclusion in support processes and accompanying the internationalization of enterprises, transparency criteria and human rights guarantees; the advice and formulation of proposals and recommendations to Parliament, the Government, and also to other administrative bodies; the preparation of an annual report of activities, and the impetus for regulatory innovation in the field, i.e., proposals, let us say, of the law. And also, fully consistent with this, get old so that the competent administrations apply and develop these recommendations and resolutions emanating from the center, as well as take on other tasks that are directed to you by the law. The relief from the organization, structure and ordinary operation of the center that is provided for in the regulations, because, certainly, there is no great novelty. I mean, it's a very classic formulation, from this point of view. And, certainly, participated in civil society, which in our order is not an innovation either. We have cases with the ICPI or other bodies that already have this structure. And, therefore, the stables of this, nor that it is to fulfill with the promise not to exhaust the time. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.4.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, president. We, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, consider that today is also a historic day in the Parliament of Catalonia. It's a historic day up there with a certain delay, and we're not fooling each other. The creation of the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights is a long-standing duty of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and also of this Parliament. It has already been said that the first time that this Parliament explicitly approved, and unanimously, the creation of a Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights was on November 3, 2016. Come on, it's been four years. Again, it was approved in a motion of April 11, 2019, Moció 78/XII. To all and every one of the appearances of the different Foreign Affairs Councillors that we have held at the length of this legislature, from our group we have been asked and asked what the situation was and at what level was this agreement and this commitment to create this Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights. Normally what we got was broad, slightly clear, concise answers, right? Counselor Maragall came to tell us that there was already a scrap that had already been working. Counselor Bosch, then, told us that this dump was Company and that it was Company that had blocked it. And with Counselor Solé we couldn't really talk, but he also told us that it was a topic. So, it's a topic where we're late. But, finally, we're making a debate that's a little bit more than the creation of this center is a reality, even though it's at the end of this legislature. And we're at this point in the debate, we're at this point in the creation of the Catalan Business Centre and Human Rights not thank the government, nor do I think thanks to parliamentary groups and the political party. We are at this point in thanking civil society organisations and entities working on development and human rights issues in Catalonia. They have followed those who have put resources to it; they have followed those who have put people to work there; they have followed those who have put ideas to it, those who have led this proposal of law that we are here defending now parliamentary groups. Elles, through the Business Group and Human Rights of Lafede, of the Catalan Table for Colombia. And, if I may, I will list all the entities that are among this group, because I believe that it is necessary and important to start by thanking the work they have done and to truly recognize them the property and ownership of this law proposal that we defend. As I say, the Català Group of Enterprise and Human Rights is made up of fifteen entities, which are two second level plataforms. For a band, Lafede. cat, Organizations for Global Justice. For another, the Catalan Table for Peace and Human Rights in Colombia. There are also experts from the Transnational Institute, the Autonomous University of Barcelona, the University of Barcelona, the University of Girona, the University of Rovira and Virgili, the University of the Basque Country and fifteen entities, as well as deiem, which are Alliance for Solidarity, Alternative, Intercanvi amb Pobles Indígenes, Amnesty International Catalonia, Centre Delàs, CooperAcció, Entrepobles, Fundació Pau i Solidaridad, Justícia Alimentària Global, Justícia i Pau, Novact, Observatori DESC, Observatori del Deute en la Globalització, Setem, Suds, and, with the observer entity, the International Pau Brigades in Catalonia. As you can see, it's a large group, it's an important group, which applies many of the organizations that work most in Catalonia and internationally in the defense of human rights. Therefore, it is a proposal that has to be thought of, that there is strategy and that there is justification – political, technical and legal. That is why we are proud to have been able to sign this proposal from civil society. And why is the creation and urgency of this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights necessary? Catalonia is a country of solidarity, and it has always followed. Since the 1994 camp for 0.7. It's a country full of rich and diverse organized fabric, all over the territory. More concentration in Barcelona, but throughout the territory we find strong names of solidarity, larger, smaller, medium-sized entities involved in development cooperation projects, which organise campaigns to defend human rights, which support those countries that are at war, in conflict, in violation. It's a rich social fabric in the construction of the pau, and that's what we also have many of the tools that this government has in order to be able to do its external action, such as the Catalan Council for the Promotion of the Pau or, as has already been said, the CIIP, or the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation, all of which is the result of a law, a law that is actually also the result of the demand for these organizations. The Development Cooperation Act of 2001, which we consider to be the main instrument of the Generality for external action, especially from the year 2004 to 2010, when there was a real, strategic bet to develop a transformative public cooperation policy and with the necessary resources. But, as we all know, and it's no secret, it was one of the main things that suffered most from the resources of the Government of Artur Mas and the Government of Convergence and the Government of Austerity. This law we are talking about in 2001, already stated that it was to arrive at 0.7_percent of the Generalitat's tickets destined for official development aid in 2010. We're very far away, we're practically at 0.4 – now I'm going. It's a historical claim, as we say, since the 94th year camp. Said years later, so, as we say, we're very far away. The year that was the highest percentage was 2010, with 0.43. After the talk it was such that practically the whole policy of cooperation was dismantled, from official help to development, and, practically, the Catalan Agency of Cooperation, with an ERE that took more than half of its staff, almost fifty people. We believe that an effort is now being made to recover presumptively the levels of cooperation to development. We have put it, for example, as one of the priorities at the time of the talks that were given as a result of the assumptions approved this 2020. We believe that the government's scenario and agreement to arrive at 0.7_per_cent 2030 could be improved and could be advanced, but it is an agreement that the government has made with entities and we will age for it to be fulfilled. But it's only for the sake of allocating more resources to it every time if we don't bet, as has already been said, because of the coherence of politics, that is to say, with one hand we don't do evil all that with the other hand we're trying to contribute to improving. If the remainder of the remaining 99,3_per_cent does not maintain these principles of coherence of the Generality's political action, it will only be used to reach 0,7_per_cent. If we allocate resources from official aid to development to protect human rights defenders, but from another department we contract and buy products and serve companies that violate these human rights, such as companies that may be operating in Colombia, such as the Catalan TSB group, which is the first Spanish maritime port terminal operator operating at the port of Buenaventura, and which has already clearly been seen to be linked between the privatisation of this port and an increase in the violence in this area of Colombia. If we make action plans against climate emergence, but we hire companies that have complaints on the part of indigenous peoples to violate their environmental rights and their cultural rights, then we wouldn't be settling anything. If we make a bet for electric energy as an alternative to fossil fuels, however, we do not take into account the violations of rights and environmental violations that are given in those countries that are producing disputes, or the strategic and political interferences that are there in countries that are producing disputes, such as Bolivia, so we will not be advancing anything. If we allocate resources to international support programmes to the Palestinian people or to Catalan NGOs working with the Palestinian people to help their displaced and refugee populations and to put an end to the conflict that already exists in years and decades that are being painted, but after Action, which is an area linked to the Government of Catalonia, the Department of Enterprise, is promoting commercial missions to strengthen cooperation between Catalan and Israeli cybersecurity companies, therefore, we are not doing anything else, nor is it helping. This is not policy coherence. Or the large number of entrepreneurs operating in Catalonia and benefiting precisely from the Israeli occupation regime in Palestine. I think all this information that I'm giving them can be found wider, more worked out, on the alertadh web. Org; also by Lafede, the Business Group and Human Rights, and I recommend that they enter it because it is precisely the work that entities are doing and that should be done by this Catalan Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights, with public resources and public policies. And that's what's raised with this proposal of the law: working from this center for an effective policy coherence strategy, which is not a more paper, a more document, or a more protocol, but having resources and political will; putting in for public purchasing mechanisms, which are old because it's not good and you serve with companies that may be violating human rights to other countries. That's why we also need to know who these companies are that may be doing these violations, and that's why we need an autonomous centre, an independent centre, with resources that depend on it, that is, the Department of External Action, as for example, the ICPI, but there is no direct political link, but there is one where the autonomy of its action is guaranteed. And that's one of the questions that in the governance part of the proposed law that is raised is very old, and it's to guarantee this autonomy from any business interest or any political interest to affect the outcome and the work that this center can do. The functions are not going to detail them, Congressman Pedret has done it before. I think they're also on the bill's proposal document, but it seemed important to us that they can say here. We highlight, above all, this capacity to follow up and evaluate the impact; that it has this capacity to re-examine and investigate complaints that it is a fan, to report, and, above all, this capacity to punish those who do not give the information, and more than there is actually a clear mechanism for the Government of Catalonia to take action and to respond to the resolutions issued by this centre. Or, not even what we need is a center that does very well-worked, well-argued reports, that answers these complaints, that investigates them, but that after these reports is stuck on a web and does not have an impact on what we say, the strategy of coherence of policies of the Government of Catalonia. And we have other examples at the international level. We have, for example, the example of France, don't we? , which is a French law on due diligence. There are debate processes similar to this one in Germany, in Switzerland, there is the international initiative to move towards a binding treaty. We believe that what Catalonia is doing now is putting itself in the grip of these initials, and also, as has been said, we are finishing the legislature. We probably can't finish the debate on this law that begins today's debate, but we also felt that it was important to have this debate before the end of the legislature and, above all, that we take advantage of all the groups that sign it, and perhaps some others that think about it in the face of the next legislature, to compromise that if this proposal lapses because it ends the legislature before it can be approved in this Parliament, that there really is a compromise of all groups that is one of the first initials that we register in the next legislature, maintaining and respecting the text that the entities propose, and then in the next legislature that we can do the debate, and that the creation of the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights is now a reality21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.6.0	Thank you, President. Well, it seems to us that it is evidence that it should be shared that the economic activities of large corporations can lead to serious violations of human rights. And this is not a hypothesis, it is an evidence, unfortunately, accompanied by objective and dramatic data from the world, especially in contexts of conflict or in relation to the exploitation of natural resources in the context of fragile ecosystems and unequal and impoverished social contexts, in which enterprises involve promoting institutional and democratic fever. And it seems to me that it's important to point this out. It is not only about situations that arise in institutionally poor contexts, but also about entrepreneurs who dedicate resources, who invest, so that these institutional areas of these countries and territories continue to be weak so as to have a greater capacity to act and so as to maximize their business benefits through actions that effectively take advantage of this mark of institutional fever, will violate human and environmental rights. Looks like it's important to point this out. Above all, the states find it difficult to avoid and punish violations of human rights arising from the economic activities of large enterprises, especially those of transnational types that act in countries, as we have said before, in this context of institutional weakness. But we also need to make it clear that they have been complicit in them; they are complicit in the performance of the companies that are linked to them so as to maximize the negotiations of these companies that violate human and environmental rights. An obvious and clean case is that of the Spanish State with the sale of weapons. It is an accomplice to the violation of human rights in many parts of the world, and, in some contexts, in a particularly dramatic way. It is for this reason that in 2014 the United Nations Human Rights Council approved, as you know, Resolution 26/9, for the elaboration of an international legally binding instrument on transnational and other enterprises respecting human rights. For what it does to the legislation that we want to bring forward from this moment on, from now on, it is important to note that it gives that its corporate company with transnational activity is every once less determining, when in the present law we call the words " Catalan companies we refer not only to companies with their own in Catalonia, but to all those who have some kind of connection with the Catalan territory in any of its activities. Therefore, we are talking about a wide range of companies and corporations. Well, as the spokesman who preceded me has already pointed out, unfortunately, we must note that this problem and that this objective, which we propose with this law, has not been a priority either of the governments of the Generality, nor, unfortunately, of the majority of this Parliament. Certainly, we must make self-criticism and recognize that it is the entities, that it is the NGOs, that it is the civil society, the academic world – I will not make the list again, has already made it the deputy Susanna Segovia..., but all our gratitude and congratulations to the Catalan Business Group and Human Rights for the tenacity, interest and effort in their task promoting this initiative. Effectively, on April 11, 2019, the Parliament's Plenary approves Motion 78/XII, in which it reasserts its unanimous commitment to the creation of this centre. And, in this sense, we want to put on the table our concern, our concern, for this neglect, negligence or lack of motivation that the governments of the Generality have historically had on this issue, but also for the lack of interest and motivation of this Parliament, and especially of the parliamentary groups that today do not support this initiative. Clearly, we don't want to think that they don't support it because they already agree that business activity needs to involve violation of human and environmental rights, that this is part of what they like to say externalities, that it is part of the business and that it is to be assumed as normal. Let us hope that you are not trying to naturalize human rights violations as an insecure and necessary logic of economic activity. Or we don't want to suppose naivety or innocence – that it couldn't be more than evil, we say – to pretend that the market has the ability, huh? , has the ability to self-regulate so that these violations do not occur. They will have to explain to us, in any case, because, otherwise, we do not understand why there is no greater involvement or priority in this issue. Therefore, as a result, the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights has to be set up as a public body, independent, with legal personality – effectively, as it was said – in its own right, and as an entity of public law with full autonomy and independence that is accountable to civil society, Parliament and the Government of Catalonia. Certainly, he was already playing, it was his turn to arrive at this moment, and let us celebrate that this debate in the Parliament of Catalonia gives light green and gives start seriously to this process. While we are talking about this, while we are trying to push this initiative forward, we know that for some time now, for example, and only to put forward some examples which are significant and which, as Congresswoman Susanna Segovia has said, can find on the website of the promoters, workers from Zara and Mango denounce the persecution and trade union repression of these enterprises in various territories, such as Myanmar; they cause murders of 13_percent of environmental activists in the world, and another 18_percent are victims of rape; there are constant violations of social and labour rights in the mining, technical, civil, agrarian, forestry and community sectors, taking advantage of the context of Covid-19, which has encouraged this multiplication of activities in the field of mining. I mean, we could make a very long list of what's going on while we still don't have this center here that, if not, assumes the responsibility of our country to have this control activity. And I want to insist: we believe that this centre should not only be a study centre, a research centre, and that it should report and recommend it, it should be a control centre and, therefore, that it has the capacity to be an inspector and a sanctioner, that it has the capacity to report communications and to promote or facilitate complaints to national and international institutions that agree. Obviously, it is also very important – and I finish, President – to prevent the Catalan public contract from counting on these companies. Once a company is denounced, the Public Administration does not have to hire a service, effectively. And, on the other hand, obviously, it is also very important that we link this program with that of human and environmental rights defenders. Congratulations to the entities and our commitment to give continuity and culmination to this project in this legislature and in the following. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Adriana Delgado has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.8.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, counselors, workers. First of all, in sum, therefore, to this acknowledgment and recognition to the representatives of the various entities. I would especially like to quote Lafede and the Table for Peace in Colombia, but they are others who have done this continuous and constant work in this proposal for the creation of a study center, for the evaluation and control of Catalan companies or with activity in Catalonia that work abroad because they are old for the compliment of human rights, because, unfortunately, and they have already commented earlier on the companies, so there are great companies, there are great corporations that threaten and violate these rights and there are necessary mechanisms for controlling this type. For this reason, I also reiterate the importance, therefore, of the debate and of this step that we are taking in Parliament today. I would like to recall that both Parliament and the Government, and above all the Foreign Affairs Department's hand, have engaged on various occasions with this objective, giving response to this mobilization and petition by civil society. That's how they led it, but it's also true that some actions have taken place. As a minimum here, and I feel there, so we started talking to the entities on this subject on June 2016 on a day when all – all – the parliamentary groups agreed to study its creation, and we managed, at the end of a few months, to agree on a motion for a resolution. There have also been later agreements, left we have joined all of them, this proposal and the previous ones, in this case with PSC, Joints, commons and the UPC, because our commitment is firm and explicit for human rights in all spheres. And, therefore, whenever it is dealt with, whenever this issue has been dealt with in Parliament, so, we have been, we are and there will be in the future. It is a proposal, as we say, that needs to be worked on, especially for these final moments of the legislature, but the compromise is that this, therefore, is moving forward. In the different interventions on the creation of this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights I have always commented that when we ask that it is completed in our home, we must also ask that it is completed in other places, and that we must demand that companies and governments remain respectful of human rights, labour rights and the environment, with diversity, with the sovereignty of the people, with no tax evasion or fraud. We all know cases of transnational corporations that have acted with impunity in countries where there are inequalities, impoverished countries, in many cases, therefore, with bilateral conflicts, with exploited natural resources, and which have been involved in environmental catastrophes and against human rights. Therefore, this proposal for a law must, in short, seek the coherence that we have expressed on different occasions in our policies of cooperation and human rights and in the internationalization of Catalan companies that have no negative impacts, therefore, on the outside. Obviously, what we are once again asking for from the entities working on these issues is that there is no legal impunity and that we are going further, we are taking a step further, that we are creating, therefore, binding regulations, control and repair mechanisms, as it would be, in this concrete case, that of this centre. But I insist that we do not start from scratch, that we have already worked and that we work in various actions on the internationalization of companies and compliments of human rights, as in fact the very preliminary of the proposed law. We have the Law of Foreign Action, which already includes themes of internationalization and respect for human rights, the Law of Development Cooperation, the various plans of development cooperation, also the collaboration-cooperation between the General Directorate of Cooperation and the Agency Action. In fact, a decade of ethical conduct was drawn up for Catalan companies carrying out economic activities abroad only a few months ago. Therefore, throughout this journey, I would like to recall and defend the work done in this area of the Department of External Action, and especially for Councillor Raül Romeva, now unjustly undertaken, in the elaboration of an integral strategy of enterprise and human rights that has been discussed with entities, with NGOs, has been discussed with business sectors, chambers of commerce, also with parliamentary groups, and has advanced, was prepared, was advanced, and enclosed, among other elements, the forecast of the tasks that will enable us to determine and deploy this center of study and evaluation of the impacts of the companies abroad. He also worked in a code of protection of human rights and gender equality for the internationalization responsible for Catalan companies. And the Parliament has also organized various days so that we can learn about national and international experiences about enterprise and human rights of personalities, therefore, of the academic, social and legal field. All this work was also put to rest in its moment, it was put to rest for 155. And we also need to remember that it was very complicated to set up the current legislature – and, of course, I refer again to the Romeva Councillor – with outstanding absences. In any case, I can keep moving forward, so I can keep moving forward with the forecast, so I can move forward, because we have remembered, therefore, these situations of these companies that violate human rights. Even the difficulties, the political leaders, therefore, would say above all of the Department of External Action, obviously, but also of Enterprise, must take these proposals prepared at the technical level, discuss them politically and address the issue in a global way and with international standards, approving, as we have always defended from the Esquerra, a strategy of enterprises and human rights with concrete measures that serve as a mark for subsequent development, and that also includes the creation of this centre, a public body, independent, partners that has to be held accountable to civil society, Parliament and the Government. We would also like to point out – I think Segovia's company has done this – that what this centre actually refers to is this capacity for specific complaints and complaints, that those collections directly affected by companies can go to this centre and that it can start a process of investigation and dialogue, and that, moreover, it has this sanctioning capacity when companies do not provide all the information required by the Administration. Therefore, yes, we create the Centre d'Empresa e Drets Humanes, but we must go beyond the existence of this instrument, as happens in the most advanced countries, which have a strategy, a national action plan or a law of enterprise and human rights, as the Romeva Councillor had worked. Such policies must place us as a referent country on the international stage in the promotion of defence and respect for the pau, human rights and sustainable development, the international right to work and international environmental standards. Therefore, we work on this national strategy of enterprise and human rights, which at the time of putting it into practice also has a real and effective application. That is why we are moving forward with this parliamentary procedure so that this centre can become real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc of Dalmases has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. We are once again saying that Catalonia is a country of rights, that we are referring to public institutions, but we are doing so above all thanks to an organised civil society that is the spearhead of the defence of rights. Because, despite the history, the repression continued at the social, political and economic levels – certainly, it does not stop..., we want to make a parenthesis to denounce again the abnormality and aberration that means the disqualification of President Torra. We say that, despite this repression and this history of continued repression, organised civil society has continued to do an indispensable job of substitution, not shut down in itself, open to the world. And, therefore, this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights is a new trunk of this country of rights that we want. Therefore, first of all, many thanks to all the people, to all the organizations that have made it possible since organised civil society. Today, once again, this Parliament seeks to be obedient, obeying the requests and proposals made to it by the Catalan society. And, to do so, you know that we pay a high price; that I ask President Forcadell, that I ask President Puigdemont, that they suffer exile and jail precisely to maintain this obedience. We think it's a step, what we're doing today, in the right direction, in the right direction. Because this organised civil society identifies us with the country. It also identifies us as a business city with the capacity to reach economic and business agreements around the world. In times of political, economic and social difficulty as we live, that entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives, and everyone who makes this country run, that's good news. Also now. And, in this sense, linking business and human rights is not a toll, it is a value added to our businesses, to our entrepreneurs and to our entrepreneurs. After the vast majority do things well, they do their job well and they have this recognition and they can also add to this will to form part of a country that makes the right one a mark of explanation inside and outside. Because everything we do must be in love with this conception. Outside the democracy playground, outside the human rights playground, there is no game, no game, no politics, no economics, no social. But I also want us to start this parliamentary process... I have bad news, and it is that, like all the regulations that this Parliament needs, it will have a spasm of Damocles on top, which is the state's repressive apparatus, which goes from the locksmiths to the Constitutional Court. I do not know what the government of commons and socialists will do with this initiative. I do know what he's doing now, and it's usually disobeying all those international norms in relation to the defense and promotion of human rights. Neither formal and fully consolidated international agreements like those of arms trafficking – after which I will make an express mention – do not complete them. It would be interesting, therefore, that in the area of human rights – we call on this Government to do so, but that each government claims it to the governments where it forms part – there is coherence in policies. For example: is it possible today to make a great defense of this Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights and to make these proclamations in favor of human rights and to form part of a government that has increased repression and punitive actions at the southern border? Is it compatible to defend human rights today when it is announced this morning that the government re-imposes foreign detention centres, which are illegal detention centres? What political forces were committed to shutting down, but they said: "It is only we who are together that can do nothing; and now that they are government neither can we do anything? Is that compatible? Is it possible to defend this centre and to be in a government that has increased repression and punitive actions at the southern border, we say? Is it compatible with having built – not the previous government, this one – a border to the south with a tank that makes a_meter more than the one Trump wanted with Mexico? In a context of continuous violation of social rights, civil rights, political rights, economic rights in the Spanish State, it makes us because what we are doing today, which is very good news, I insist, and which is a step forward, distract us from the difficult situation of human rights in the Spanish State, and that is what we want them to reflect on today. In this Spanish State, rappers are condemned to sing and say truths as cantires, as is the case with Valtònyc; activists like Adri are condemned or held in unwarranted preventive detention in Dani Gallardo; universities are now being persecuted, examples are being given, those things that they say are only going through dictatorship; and a president is being persecuted and disabled to defend freedom of expression and opinion... And we are calmly having a session in Parliament while we have President Forcadell convicted and the rest of the Bureau, pending a hearing. It's not an empty toilet. I tell them with absolute sadness and disappointment. What are they doing? What's going on with human rights in the Spanish State? Do we really seem to be moving forward in the knowledge and recognition and promotion of human rights from the Parliament of Catalonia and seeing that we are not aware of the democratic and human rights crisis that the Spanish Government is currently leading? We are concerned to treat human rights in winged compartments, because they must still be communicating vessels. In Greece, Alba Daurada is a criminal organization, while in the Spanish State, common and socialist governments– and Esquerra and Ciutadans seem to be barallin to see who gives them the most support– while the extreme right marks the state's course, while his role in particular prosecutions in political trials, in complicity with the police, the courts and the Civil Guard and his prosecution, continues to be starred, continues to be starred in democracy. What are they doing with a prosecutor's office that follows the dictatorships of the far right? Shut up. What are they doing blaming the victim, President Torra, and not pointing out the demophobic organizations that support the essential democratic principles and the people who defend them? A news of yesterday in a country where the debt already exceeds the country's GDP – from the Prisa group, eh? –: « The largest contract in the history of the army shields the Spanish military industry. The subtitle is still better: « The agreement of the Dragon vehicle leaves open the final price, but guarantees the benefit to the companies. We add this to the 350 armours they bought in the middle of the crisis and the increase of seven thousand soldiers for the army in the middle of the pandemic. Explain to me how they account for this formula of accompanying Catalan companies to their work abroad, which mostly do, and do well, with news of housing, veils and accounts for any modern conception no longer of human rights, but of external commercial action and day-to-day political management. I began by saying that this was a country of rights, that it was long before the recovery of its own institutions in this country, that it continued to feel it and that it continues to feel it now. That the stake for rights and democracy is so strong, that we have half the government in exile and half the jail, precisely to defend these rights. That, despite everything, we are not focusing on our struggle, because we know that the struggle for human rights is a global struggle. There's either everyone and there's no right for anyone. If today we congratulate ourselves on this initiative, it is because it breaks the dynamic that there are some areas and some kind of organization that are responsible for vetting human rights. It's false, it's a common cause, it's shared and it has to be transversal. That there is the world of the economy, the world of the enterprise is positive, and, therefore, we all have to congratulate ourselves on this initiative, because when it does not happen, when it is not transversal, when it is not run away, it becomes an uncomfortable reality. And I skated, and I skated every day. Many will remember that to the External Action Commission when we receive visits from organisations defending the human rights of Europe or any part of the world, some Members, and not precisely the block of 155, settle when at the end of the meeting, that we see that it is as positive and as profitable as possible, that we remember that it is a false normality, that they see when they come to this Parliament, when they arrive at this Parliament, and you tell them: "You must know the normality that we live in, you must know what happens to the President of this Parliament, you must know what happens to the President of this country. So some Members and Members say to us: "Can't you do that in private afterwards? What do you want me to do when we get visitors? It's the one that's causing trouble. Well, yes, it does cause discomfort. Fix it. What do I mean, with all this? That as we have always done to Junts for Catalonia, we commit ourselves to facilitate the parliamentary process and to do the good work that we do to ensure the proper functioning of the Centre d'Empresa e Drets Humans. We'll talk about the name, because it seems to us that it's the Catalan center. Obviously, it's the Catalan Centre for Business and Human Rights. And that we would like the same groups that today will support and bring in the pits of this adventure to stop piling up and profile when there are issues that affect centrally and hard the democratic quality of Spanish institutions. Can you imagine that the political forces that support the Government of Erdogan of Turkey are celebrating in a Turkish centre of enterprise and human rights? A lot of this way, huh? So they are very wrong, very much if they think that the quality of Turkish democracy, of respect for human rights in Turkey differs greatly from the Spanish State. Yesterday, Clara put the three shames on the Spanish representatives in Brussels and said: "Turkey is Spain's main partner. Stop selling illegal weapons to Turkey. Today, today, Armenian civilians and Turkish civilians are being murdered with arms sales made by the Spanish State in Turkey. I'll hang on to it, and please. We ask you what I am, what you decided to do to the Spanish government, that you are holding up this sale of weapons that is causing the civilian population to die in Armenia and Kurdistan today. It is not about making empty speeches, it is about compromising 'as well as a peaceful resolution of conflicts. Stop being active agents of violent solutions and military solutions that always end up causing patience and civilian deaths. In fact, it's already happening with political leaders in Hungary. Turkey has often mentioned Spanish repression against Catalonia if the European Union has once timidly mentioned human rights. Despite all this, we are still preserving and defending the highly migratory sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. Despite all this, we continue to welcome debates and agreements like today's ones as it could be a country that, beyond the acronyms, has agreed that human rights are the playing field that we cannot cross, that there is no politics in democracy without human rights in its individual and collective dimension. For all this, long life and good work the Catalan Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights. And with a few seconds left for me, and with Barcelona, today that we are talking about justice and human rights, I want to make a warning in favor of anti-fessistic memory and in memory of all the deportations and victims of Nazism. Stolpersteine are small lanyards created by German artist Gunter Demnig in memory of the victims of Nazism. It's a place where a victim of Nazism lived. Today the Democratic Memorial itself will install some of these calls in Esparreguera and Santa Perpetua de Mogoda. We have two commemorative calls dedicated to Francesc Boix, the photographer of Mauthausen, and President Companies. Inexplicably, the Barcelona Assembly three years ago has put an end to its co-location. In Europe this is done only by direct or controlled assemblies for the extreme right. You ask, socialists and commons, who came out of this list and before October 15th, as President Tora asked – he still has a week – to do, this act of reparation and historical justice with Francesc Boix and President Companies. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to defend the totality presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.12.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. We defend this amendment as a whole to this proposal for a law being aware that it will not be able to prosper, but we believe it is important to be able to justify the reasons why we believe that this initiative should fall, and basically there are three. First of all, because it really hides a perverse end from the political point of view, because behind the creation of the so-called Centre Català d'Empresa i Drets Humans, a new political administrative body with action in both the public and private spheres... As I say, behind this body there is a perverse end, because it clearly sees what is intended with it, which is to control the activities of Catalan companies operating abroad, as well as the activities of foreign companies operating in Catalonia. This is the real goal. Another thing is that we want to disguise ourselves in order to make believe that Catalan public and private external action is a reference in the international sphere in respect of human rights, but in reality what is behind, I insist, is this controlling and sanctioning desire that characterizes so much separatism. Not to mention what you will understand, when it comes to the case, so it means 'infringing human rights', because in this concept you want to bring in everything that interests you, and we already know all that interests you. There are no developments in that regard. Furthermore, we believe that the proposed law presents an unrealistic view of things. As I said earlier, it is worrying that this role should be given to the new body, which is to control the activity of Catalan companies abroad, as well as that of foreign companies in Catalonia. But besides worrying, it is clearly contrary to the territoriality of the rules, because believing that Catalonia has the capacity to investigate the activity of companies abroad is totally out of reality – something, by the way, quite common in parliamentary groups that support the Government. But it is quite surprising that the Socialist Party of Catalonia has enthusiastically joined this proposal. Because, I insist, this proposal of law is promoted by the independenceist groups, who in their fiction consider Catalonia to be an international actor more, for, it enters into logic, but it is very surprising that the PSC, the party that currently governs in Spain – surprise, I insist – that not only supports the initiative, but promotes it, because in reality the creation of this new center to what it aspires is to become one more instrument of the imagined foreign policy of the Catalan government. Secondly, we are presenting this amendment in its entirety because the background to this proposal for a law is profoundly unfair. And it is unfair because what it suggests is that foreign companies located in Catalonia or Catalan companies abroad systematically violate human rights, and that is not true. There may be isolated cases, but it is the exception to the rule. And, in any case, for the cases in which these human rights violations occur, there are already binding legal instruments in Catalonia without having to resort to this proposed law, for example, the Constitution or international conventions ratified by the Spanish State. This proposal for a law is therefore absolutely unnecessary to combat this aspect. Finally, we are presenting this amendment as a whole because we have to mention, again, the priorities that some parliamentary groups have. And I think they're still confused. I do not know if you have learned that there is a virus out there that is causing a serious public health problem, which is having a brutal impact on people's daily lives as a result of the economic and social crisis that we have on top. But you pretend to legislate as if nothing was going on there, and the truth is that we are amazed that if at such a serious time as the one we are living you have not had the sensitivity to put an initiative like this in the drawer, we don't think you can ever do it, and you will continue to legislate and rule only for your own, as if people's lives there were not suffering drastic changes. Look, that some parliamentary groups bet on reorienting the priorities of the Government and public spending, reoriented also to the fight against the pandemic and the economic and social crisis, we already knew, no matter how much we asked the opposition groups, or some of them, we knew that they were not going to do so, let alone suppressing that policy of creating superfluous and expensive political administrative bodies that are merely processing; but that, in the midst of the pandemic, they are daring to increase this structure leads us to the conclusion that you, some of you, of the parliamentary groups, are a lost cause. And that is why we regret once again, deeply, that the PSC has joined this initiative, because, I insist, it is an initiative that is disguised for the defence of human rights, but that, really, what it hides is a new process, a process and a process. And with us it has not slipped, and that is why we are presenting this amendment to the whole, because it would really have to go not to the drawer, but to the trunk of the lost objects. Thank you very much, Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Susana Beltrán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.14.0	Thank you. This law..., before a while ago she said: "This is the fruit of the impulse of Catalan civil society, which for many years has been working on this subject. But, just as the Republican Left Member referred to this as starting in 2016 with seminars, the Citizens' Group has been present and has also been present, talking to all these drivers of this law about human rights and business, and has also been present to give their voice, and has also been present to debate, which we are also doing now, and to give this voice, which is not the same as the view that the groups of this Parliament are giving support to this law. And certainly many of the things I'm going to say are things I've also said, especially in the last meetings we had with the drivers of this law. It does me the effect that this law goes against businesses. And I give you a public reflection, don't I? You're out of your mind. Entrepreneurs, don't they have rights? Business workers, don't they have rights? Right to continue with his work, right to which he is not put in danger, at risk his work. And, sometimes, it gives the feeling, as this law is written, that... Deputy Dalmases also, from Junts per Catalunya, said: « Catalonia is of rights. But it seems that some have rights and others, no. Entrepreneurs don't have rights? Don't the workers have rights? So there's no presence here, there's no presence here. And you, in general, haven't done anything. This, which is presented today, wants to be a law, but it lacks all the guarantees to be a law. Invents a concept of « Catalan company which, if I may say so, is a colonizing concept. "The Catalan company is the ones that operate in Catalonia, the ones that have investments, it is to say, any one that can or can have the concept of « Catalan company with extraterritorial effects, with extraterritorial effects, it is to say, they want to create a center with the capacity to sanction enterprises that have their own in Catalonia, but what they only have investments or that they only have activity, it is to say, to sanction all enterprises of the world, practically, that has some influence here in Catalonia, it is to say, with extraterritorial effects, with effects more than Spain. I'm not going anywhere! And with this you do not see that here there is something that does not work, thinking precisely about the respect of human rights. There's also a very clear interference in the interiors of other countries, isn't there? The fact of being able to sanction companies working in other countries, this can cause international conflicts, this can cause diplomatic conflicts. This doesn't have to alienate anyone. In fact, there are already examples in the world where diplomatic conflicts have occurred precisely because of this. So we want to create a centre that will help to deepen all these diplomatic conflicts? But isn't it about protecting human rights? Or is it still a matter of deepening the conflict, the confrontation? In this I say to you, it is pending – and also, when we have had meetings, I asked the civil society that is pushing this – an international legal instrument, which will certainly take the form of an international treaty, because it will certainly not be a decision of the United Nations Security Council. And you have every sense that there's, uh, an international deal. Why? So, in an international treaty, first of all, we would agree with the concept of "business" that we are referring to, we would agree with whom are the principles and regulations that we want to apply, the scope of territorial action and, from here on, we would be able to break down or implement everything that the countries have wanted to agree, precisely, to protect human rights in accordance with the activity of some companies. But not here. Here in Catalonia we want to start backwards. We want to start the house on the roof. The deputy of the commons said: « Catalunya wants to be an engine, or it wants to be a front, but it wants to be a front of what? Starting the house on the roof? Without having an international deal where there are rules as important as the applicable law, what is the concept of enterprise, what are the decisions that will be taken in the state because civil society and other actors can work in the defense of human rights in relation to the business activity? That they don't see it, that this will be the result of conflict? Surely it will not be the result of conflict because this, quite clearly, is illegal and will not come too far in time to see the light, but I give you a higher view of it beyond its legality. It is that if the object of this law is to protect human rights, it is not only not succeeding, but that the rights of the entrepreneurs, the rights of the workers, are being unprotected, and neither will the people, those people, who see that because of the activity of some companies – which, obviously, are – can't enforce their rights. This last proposal the law doesn't get it. It does, in fact, this law, to the Catalan law of external action, but it does not do anything at all in the matter of trade, at all in economic matters, at European law. All this... isn't there any European trade regulations, economics, that you also have to say something about respect? There's absolutely nothing to be said. And, above all, or else, there is one thing that is totally contrary to the defence of human rights, and it is that it is a public center that wants to impose sanctions on companies, on businesses. Penalties with proceedings that are not the procedures that are provided for in the judicial organs, judicial proceedings where the accused have all the guarantees for their defence. And you want to supplant the task of the courts – all of you – the judicial proceedings where there are all these guarantees of defense of the possible defendants..., you want to supplant it for an administered organ, for a public right organ. Is that a defense of human rights? I ask, is that a defense of human rights? I don't think so. I think this is about violating human rights, and some very concrete people. In this law there are no rules that fix this procedure in order to be able to accuse certain companies. They can tell me: "Well, that's what we regulate in the regulation, but it seems to me that they are sufficiently important for the consequences, for the negative effects that can have everything folded. Only an accusation to a businessman can have consequences. These procedures must be confidential. Beyond the fact that we absolutely do not agree that a centre, therefore, can impose sanctions, but these procedures must be confidential until there is a resolution. I didn't come here. The procedure itself must be transparent. Who are the rules to be followed by these procedures? Let's handle it all ourselves and between four, so, let's say what it's got to be? I don't think so. I don't think that's in favor of protecting human rights. This is what you say: the Business Centre and Human Rights must be a centre that enjoys independence. This centre, as predicted, does not enjoy independence, from the end of the way. The governing board of this centre, based on a proposal from the Development Cooperation Council, has represented members of the different departments of the Government of Catalonia. But what independence is this? Admitted to the Department of External Action. What independence is this? Because it is not possible to subscribe, for example, to the Parliament of Catalonia, where are all representatives of the city of Catalonia. Why should it be, exactly, the government, or what depends on the government? Presupposition of the Generality. Basically, it's a center that provides the premise of the Generality. What independence will this body have? And, on the other hand, it turns out that businesses can make donations or contribute money. That is to say, we assume that the Generality's money will be used to provide independence, but in change, money that can come from businesses, that's not, that's why we exclude it because it doesn't guarantee independence. What follows is that, quite clearly, neither the companies or associations in defense of the companies are represented in this center nor, moreover, are they allowed to give their parent. There's no independence. And then, of course, they can't help it. Another body more when it has not been proposed to address the situation that we are, in detail, releasing resources for other departments of the same Government of the Government of Catalonia, which are asking for it long ago, and the Department of External Action is systematically, and now, above, we want to create another body, with a Department of Transparency that you already know, know what I think, of transparency, has little. And another organism more than escaped Parliament's control? I'm just worried about it. And I'm telling you the truth: I'm anxious. So, it's a bigger body, with more money, that won't be used to protect the rights and that over will escape the control of the representatives of Catalonia's citizens. It is true that we have put all the good will to want to be there, in all the debates, since they started, with associations of civil society. And we have been able to give our view and we will continue to give our view, but first, we do not believe that this should be a law. We do not believe that a centre that does not have the guarantees of a judicial process should have the capacity to impose sanctions. We do not believe that the people who are to join this Gaudeixin independence body, even though they are chosen from different sectors, and therefore also on the proposal of the parliamentary groups. Neither will independence be achieved; independence I can imagine, therefore, with the courts, that all oppose and do not depend on the body, the party, absolutely nothing. And, in addition, they compete for their merits. A center of these features won't hold it. And I can't help but think about the debate that we had with the Board of Governors of the International Institute for the Pau, and that many of the people there are now – I won't say many people, but some people – we ask them for merit, for merit, to occupy these places, and that they were appointed on the proposal of some parties. We don't agree. If it really wants to guarantee independence, it has to be demonstrated, and in this way it is not demonstrated, in this way what we are pursuing is this dynamic of creating organizations dependent on public money that will not help resolve human rights, which will be the source of conflict, because as long as there is no international deal – I am no longer saying internal rules of the countries, but international rules – will be the result of conflict. And this is the reason why we have presented the whole thing. We will continue to debate with you, with all of you, political parties, and also with civil society. And many of these points, if in the end you decide to throw them away, we will be against them. This is the debate. This is the debate of ideas. And that also implies respect for the human rights of everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on the papers presented will be tomorrow at midday, together with the rest of the votes scheduled for sale. [[Question to the Government on the occupation of habitats]] [[300-00301/12]] The eighth point of the order of the day is the inquiry to the Government on the occupation of housing, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.16.0	Thank you, Vice President. In the last few months, the focus has been on housing, the media and political focus has been put on housing, but it is clear that this is not a new issue, it is not a reality that has emerged, for example, after the pandemic, but it is a phenomenon that has been going on for a long time and has not been resolved. Socialists two and a half years ago we asked from Parliament's Faristol that the government, councillor, actués, and do from different backgrounds, because then we understood that this was a very sensitive, very complex issue, and that it has different cares, and that it has different perspectives. But your government, counselor, wasn't doing anything when our group asked for it at that time, and it hasn't done anything for these two years. We have already said this once: you have looked at the other side with the occupations, because you knew that while the families occupied floors you did not have them living on the street and lowered the pressure on them over the months of emergence. But this way of acting has consequences, and they are to make it worse, on the one hand, the situation of families and, above all, to create the feeling of impunity, of those who see that the occupation is a business, those who break the doors, that change the bread, and that in the end come the keys to families that have no choice but to occupy, and also those who see in the unemployment a business, that there is also. Because this is also one of the cares of the occupation, that of the mafias who do business. And there's another, the delinquents, whether it's an organized structure or not, that they occupy to dedicate the immobiles to criminal activities – drug trafficking, prostitution... And it is obvious that these activities generate conflict in buildings, in barrels, in cities. And some will tell us that this is smaller, that it has become magnified, and that some will use it as a trigger to make a populist speech and on many occasions almost xenophobic. And it's true, some fans, and we have to report it. I from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance this whole settlement. Now, can anyone think that there is no problem associated with housing occupations? We don't think so, even though it's true that there's someone who puts a good eye and doesn't want to see the reality that happens to so many barrels of our cities. For us, it is almost as damaging to those who maintain a position like the other, criminalizing occupations or undermining their distorting effect on the coexistence of barrels. The occupations affect the large cities in a very special way, but they also affect smaller cities, such as those of Mataró, Salt, in which they tell us that the assembly counts about a thousand floors– a thousand floors– occupied, or that of the Seu d'Urgell, for example, to put some examples. And they will allow me to engage in a concrete case, in Tarragona, to exemplify the distortion that the occupation produces in the coexistence and life of the veins and veins of the barrels. In Tarragona, in Campclar's barrio, they occupied a few basses, and connection to the fire escape on the part of the occupants caused a fire to the building. The result? So that the vehicles had to be dislocated, they were re-located in the middle of the pandemic in a camp, because there seemed to be no other option, but it is that in the same block of Campclar there are six buildings that have no gas – yes – because the irregular connections of the occupants have damaged the installation. We reported it in July, when they were already carrying eight months without gas, and today they are still the same. Certainly, counselor, a good part of these floors of these buildings are from the Catalan agency of housing, which neither controls its state, nor ages because they are not occupied, nor facilitates solutions to the owners, who are very humble families of the barrier. Therefore, occupation is not a minor problem. It hardly affects coexistence in buildings in which it is produced and it hardly affects coexistence in the city barrels. You have to find a solution. We asked him two years ago, and they didn't do anything, they kept looking at it from one side to the other. And they can tell us that this is a phenomenon that is produced in all of Spain, and it's true, but the data tells us that Catalonia has a higher percentage than the rest of the Spanish State. In fact, Catalonia has more than half of the total number of cases that are produced in Spain. And you've done nothing. And, look, we are convinced that there are two determining factors at the time that the occupations are produced. On the one hand, empty habitats, especially of great tenors; without empty habitats there would be no occupied habitats. The latest data say that in the register created in 2015 there are 27,558 empty habitats that carry more than two years. Therefore, counselor, something has not done well. If a register is created, it is created a tax that is supposed to encourage the great owners, through penalty, to put the habitats on the market and even then it is not achieved, something is not going well. Maybe it's that there's no clear will to focus on these great tenors because they stop having empty habitats. And this is a key element, because if we look at the complaints and the conflicts that are generated by the occupations, we see that the large crane comes from dwellings of great estates that were not in use. The percentage of usual housing occupations of a particular individual is very small, and also smaller than that of second residences. And, in addition, these cases, with the current legislation and the latest instructions from the Attorney General of the State and the Ministry of the Interior at the joint office of Spain, improve the recovery of the habitats. And, therefore, the great bulk of the occupations and the problems are those that affect the housings, the immobiles of great lords, which is often removed from their real estate park and it is found that they do not have to go beyond the Administration, in this case it should be the Government of which you form part, that forces them to become involved. Secondly, the other key and socially destructive factor is the need for family housing. Beyond the occupations that use the floors or premises occupied for their criminal activities, we find ourselves with the mafias that negotiate with the need for housing of people, families, who have no other recourse than the occupation. The need generates business, and in this way, the inaction of this government has not been and is not responsible. Because of the need for housing, the residential vulnerability of families, is combated with public housing policies and with resources. I, look, you, of resources for habitating, more quickly few. If policy priorities are measured by the resources measured by the Government allocated to them, it is clear that housing for this Government is not a priority. And let's not call it socialists, that. I'm told the dice. From the data of the presuppositions and the consolidated assumptions, in Catalonia 2019 was allocated still no. 194_million euros to the housing policies. 2010 allocated EUR 437 million; a substantial difference. In Catalonia the investment in housing is 33,1€ per inhabitant. We're under the Spanish middle in the reverse. Actually, we're in the community sisena for the cua. Unfortunately, we are already getting used to being at the top in masses, especially those that mean a social expense. And the last one: Incasòl 2018 made eight habitats and 2019 made twenty-two. Thirty social housings made for Incasòl in two years. These are the data that support her management, her management, her advisor, and that of the government to which she belongs, in habitation. Do you really believe that with these data you can combat the need for housing of so many families who see the different economic crises that have occurred and that today they still have the hardest problems facing Covid? Obviously, with these data it is completely impossible to cope no longer with the housing emergency, but with the needs of many people, of many collections, for example the youngest collection, that sees the possibilities for obtaining or accessing a housing, and that end up occupying. And before all this, of the needy of families, of the situations provoked by occupations, there are the joints; the joints, which are often found alone; the joints on which it is carried out too often the solution of problems that are the competence of the Generality. We saw a few days ago in an interview with TV3 like councilman Sàmper, before the images of a launch, said that who had failed was the local administration, so as not to provide a social habitation the family. Councillor Calvet, explain it to councillor Sàmper, because maybe it's because a few days ago he's a councillor, who has the competence and who has the responsibility in housing is the Generality. And this competence must be exercised. They can't go on running out of competition. Look, the occupation is a reality that worries, and a lot, the gatherings, because they are the ones who see the consequences that it causes in the coexistence of the barrels. And for this reason, coordination between the Generality and the assemblies, to fight for the eradication of social and social conflict that involves the occupation of immovables and all the heterogeneity of the mafia around it, to fight against empty habitats of great affections – as we have said, without empty habitats there would be no occupied habitats – and to promote effective housing policies. And that means increasing the resources allocated to it, also involving the private sector in its execution. Mirin, this legislature will be finished, there will be a few weeks left. This government is done. And if we make a final assessment of what it meant in housing, the result is very poor. The figures show this, but above all it shows the social reality: people without a home, empty floors, occupations that damage the coexistence of the barrel, legislation that has driven this government and that is not effective... Definitely, Catalonia needs a change. It requires a government that governments, which I also managed well in housing; a government that has housing as one of its priorities, allocating resources to it, devoting political vocation to it, because we have already seen that this government does not have one thing or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Damià Calvet, now has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.18.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputies, deputies. Member of the Commission, you're going to do everything: with the public promotion, with the presumption, with the legislature... And it does it in a very uncontextual way, as they get used to from their group. Because, of course, ignoring once again the fiscal deficit or ignoring once again the resources that the Government of the State allocates to housing policies, which must be transferred to the Government of the Generality in order to make better housing policies, is, in short, a trap, honourable Member, a trap. And this trap you repeat, and then you know it hard, you and other groups, that I repeat, too, that we cannot decontextualize. And that's it – that's it – as we get to a point where we have to dissect a little everything that he said, because, I insist, he pulled it all out, right? You, in fact, asked about the problem of illegal occupation of housing and the government's action in this matter. I cannot begin in any other way than to observe a reality, which is that we believe that it is already partial and distant from the reality that it is not recognized that in the management of the problems of illegal occupations, the Generalitat is not the only one that has a paper, but that it is fundamental both the attitude of the Government of the State and that of the assemblies. I think it would be very useful to set aside an integral plan for dealing with the occupation on the part of the Generality without the Government of the State and the Congress of the Deputies taking more ambitious measures – yes, more ambitious – allowing a more clear and more forceful standard framework to address the problem more effectively to those who do work from the proximity. And it is also paradoxical for us to throw at us an integral plan on occupation in which the Generalitat is only co-ordinate with the assemblies. What it is to go beyond coordination and move decisively towards co-responsibility – to co-responsibility – and to shared assumption of functions and strategies, technical, human and economic resources also to manage a complex problem. The first thing that should be taken into account is that the problem of occupations has a double dimension. On one side, it has implications – you said it, and I recognise it – in the vein of coexistence, in the sense of insecurity in housing buildings and in the barrels and cities where it is produced, and, on the other, it has a social aspect that we cannot forget, because after many occupations there are situations of social vulnerability that we need to deal with with with the need for care, with the necessary follow-up, with the need for sensitivity. We are concerned that the group of the PSC, which makes this question, expressed itself in one of the motions for a resolution presented to the general policy debate a few weeks ago, which stated, I quote, that "it is clear that the Government is unwilling to fight against empty and occupied habitats, a crisis to which it has not dedicated any resources or policies to do so, with this approach, which is what you reiterate with this question. The pusher group for this proposal and today's inquiry shows that there may be two reasons for this. I guessed him two reasons, and the two of them were just as worrying. On the one hand, the willingness to use a problem of coexistence and social vulnerability for party purposes, yes? Or an absolute disconnection of the government's long-term actions in relation to empty habitats and occupations, which, if you want me to tell you the truth, is equally troubling; one and the other. And again, also, I think it translates, despite you coming in another way, an incomprehensible oblivion about the squandering involvement of many joints, some joints, some governed by its political strength, in relation to the problem of empty housing, occupations and situations of emergency in residential exclusion. And when we get to this point, I think there are some key questions that have been raised about empty habitats and occupied habitats that are manifesting the falsehood of the statement about a supposed failure of the Generality to deal with the problem. First of all, the Government of Catalonia is a pioneer – it is a pioneer – in the application of a tax on empty habitats, which it keeps active and which allows us to obtain an average of more than 10 million euros per year, which has logically gone down, because we have achieved the effect that you denied, that it is that the great owners warn with this tax a serious warning so that these habitats can be made available to the market. Of the 18 million that we had initially charged, now we are in a middle of more than 10, but in any case, it has decreased. It is intended entirely for habitating policies. Tell me who's doing this to me. Say'm which other autonomous community..., if the state government, the most progressive government in history you encapsulate, has done something similar. Tell me who else did this. Two, the Government of Catalonia has promoted Law 4/16 and Decree 17/19, recently approved – well, the disembarkation of the past year – which represent an important advent in the fight against empty habitats, driving the option of temporary expropriation when they do not fulfill their social function. Say this to me. You say, "You don't do anything. So look, I just told him two things we pioneers in. Say this to me. Who else can't even get away with it? In the third place, the Government has resolutely promoted, with some uncompared amounts in another autonomous community, the exercise of tanteig and retraction to expand the public park. With past dill data – past dill data, huh? – the Generality has already exercised the right over 2,895 habitats, per import more than EUR 150_million. Adjuncts had, of course, made with 779 dwellings for an import of 44_million. Who else did this? Say, the more he did, the more he did. When you say: « The Generalitat does nothing, say'much more has promoted measures such as tanteig and retraction, with these figures, 2,800 habitats, 150_million euros. Clearly, you, when you say that we don't do anything, this is to be compared to something. Tell me if the government of the state or any autonomous community that is governed by its political group has done similar things, with empty habitats, or with temporary expropriation, or with taneig and retraction. And if I insist on tanteig is because from the government we understand that expanding the social housing stock is an important strategy to fight against occupations. The housing of large estates that are acquired is used to solve residential exclusion situations that could result – could result – in illegal housing occupations. At this point, I again take advantage of a prec to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because we find that while the Generality – now giving it the figures – has made an important effort to expand the public housing park – in fact, to the cities there is more problem of empty and occupied housing, some important joints governed by its political group have not been at the height. We don't have time to put forward examples that make it clear, maybe it's others who don't do enough to fight the problem of empty floors and occupations caused by situations of social vulnerability, which aren't solved by lack of public floors. And they're asked to help in that sense. We follow with the key questions. In five places, the Government of the Generality gave support to the modification of the Civil Court Act, approved at the Congress, in 2018, so that the processes of housing denunciations of small owners, social entities and public administrations could be accelerated. And at this point I want to remember that the initiative did not count on the support of the PSOE – it did not count on the support of the PSOE. Therefore, you are asking me here in the Faristol things that after you do not collect, I suppose that for partisan reasons, and therefore, suddenly, there is this special interest in the problem of occupations, when in Madrid you have not acted, neither before nor now, to facilitate the protection of the small owners and the social housing of the administrations, and also of the entities of the Third Sector. They didn't do it, for so much that now he's disfressing his intervention in the Faristol that we're the ones who don't do anything. Empty, right-of-tonment and retraction housings to this modification of the Civil Entitlement Law. If, however, the Government of the Generality gives support, we give support to the proposal of the Council of the Catalan Advocate on the need to amend the Criminal Court Law because in the criminal court the judge orders the dislocation of an occupied habitat if forty-eight hours after being denounced the occupants cannot demonstrate any contractual relationship. And what do you think? We've already expressed this support. You here go to the cliff and ask us what we think of everything that refers to the subject we are dealing with and tell us and denounce us that we do nothing. Well, we, from the start, everything we've explained... also this reunion with this position of the Catalan Counsel. Tell me what you think. Another aspect, Decree 17/19– before I mentioned it, but I repeat it – is that of urgent actions. It is a protection mechanism for people and families in situations of accredited social vulnerability who occupy dwellings of great warmth. But the Socialist Parliamentary Group did not support, at the time of the passage of Decree 17/19, the social logue binding on cases of illegal occupiers with accredited vulnerability, and, certainly, we have doubts – we have many doubts – about their position in relation to the approach of the social face of the occupations; of their interventions and of their actions I have many doubts. You didn't give a lift to this point. That's right, or that's what I want to see. The Government warns that we, like the Government, cannot be as alone with the recent instruction of the Public Prosecutor's Office to expedite relocations in the event of an occupation of a dwelling. Settle down, huh? , that the prosecution has to ask the court that it is disalotgi immediately. It's not a matter of the legislature, it's not a matter of the executive, but there can certainly be more recovery from the executive of the state government. And I end up with one last point, noting that the Generality is one of the most affected by the problem of occupations, as it affects many cases of the months of emergence and many cases of the habitats given to financial entities, and that is why we make the whole set of policies that previously mentioned it. Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, has the new word the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.20.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, counselor, you've gone back to what you do all the time, which is to get pilots out. You have told us that we have come down with this question, and that, moreover, this is a common practice of our group, but you also always repeat the same strategy, which is: "We have no responsibility for the king, who has responsibility for the government of the State or for the assemblies, who are not on the rise. It's pretty big, huh? , say that some gatherings that are on the front line and that each day will face the harsh reality of many and many people you say they are not on the rise; it is very difficult. And, look, I was just saying that I had doubts about our social approach to occupations. So, miri, not tingui, doubtful. In any case, they can give us the benefit of the doubt. We can't give you this benefit of the doubt, because the data is who it is. Data in housing, of the resources allocated to it, and also data in social investment, in general. We're at the top of all the communities in the Spanish State. Therefore, we have no doubt about you. And, look, we don't want to make a supporter of problems and conflicts of coexistence – we have said it here and we have repeated it –; now, to put it on the table and ask you to explain it to respect your actions and the actions of this government precisely of the occupations, that is not to make it a supporter, it is to do our job, which is, in any case, to follow the work that it does or, in this case, that we believe it doesn't do the government. And it could be... you said that we might have a misrepresentation of what the government is doing. Listen'm, it could be. Look, we're all limited, we can all make mistakes, and maybe we don't know each other. But it is the social reality that clearly sets us above, the social reality of so many families that have long been inscribed at the table of emergency and that do not find a solution, that have to be occupied, and the reality of so many buildings, of so many locals, of so many floors that are occupied by mafias or that are occupied by criminal organizations and that use them to delinquent and that produce these problems. And made a very clear reference to a case of Tarragona. Miri, we are following this integral plan for the approach of the occupation, and we are following it from various points of view, because we believe, as we have said, that it has a broad, diverse approach from a social point of view, facilitating housing for those people who need it and actually converting the months of emergence into a useful instrument. And not just that, but they're monitoring these people so they can get over the situation, social support, and especially at these moments of pandemic. And we must remind you that we approved in this very Chamber a proposal of our own, a motion of this group, of the Socialist Group, in which it is demanded that you help the loguer for the affected for the Covid..., it is back to open the term, it is complemented with an extra contribution for which it was necessary, and you have not yet made it. And, obviously, you also have to focus from a point of view of security, it's obvious. And that means, on the one hand, that the Mossos have clear protocols of action throughout the territory, but it also means coordination with the forces and bodies of security through the local joints of security. And in the third, too, in the third place we think it's about justice. The joint work of the Administration of the Generality with the Administration of Justice can be that it is more efficient, it can make us more efficient at the time of acting, especially against the mafias. And all this can't work, all this cross-cutting plan can't work if it doesn't take a picture of the reality of the country, of the reality in the realm of occupations. And that's why we ask you to use some of the instruments that are in this Decree 17/2009, which is the coordination between the assemblies and the Government of the Generality, because it is agreed and the assemblies count with the resources to be able to actually make a plan, a picture of how the country is on the issue of occupied habitats, to know in which state it is found, who are its owners, and that would also allow us to act against empty habitats. Counselor, no more pilots, no more responsibility to others, no more competition, no more action and government, even for the few months left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, to answer the reply, counsel Damià Calvet has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.22.0	Thank you, Vice President. My honourable Member, it is true, you have asked me to comply with the situation of the Campclar floors. And I have to tell you, we're not the only owners. And from the Catalan agency of housing we are promoting Community agreements to solve the problem of gas sub-administration. So clear. And you asked us to apply the coordination mechanisms of 17/19, which I reiterate that you did not vote; a little contradiction that we ask to apply forcefully what you said on 17/19 when you did not harvest it. More quickly they fought dialectically. And I want to announce a novelty, huh? A novelty, that is that the Government of Catalonia has assumed the commitment to co-finance inspections of two thousand empty habitats at forty-five cities during its own six-month period. And, therefore, what we have offered, we are offering to the assemblies of these forty-five municipalities agreed to cost the half of the cost of the inspection – go to 50-50, co-responsibility; three hundred of the six-cents_euros – of the empty habitats, to help the assemblies to start the correspondents issuing sanctioning or temporary expropriation, which is provided for in Decree 17/19, which you did not vote for. But we do, huh? 17/19 we apply it and, moreover, we have these facilities. I mean, let's apply to what the law decree provides, which, I insist, you didn't vote. Therefore, a positive novelty, in relation to what you ask, requires. Added to everything I have already explained, that the Government of the Generalitat does, in comparison with the Government of the State or other autonomous communities. Therefore – and with this, we say, concrete explanation of what has asked me of Campclar or of this novelty, which is of collaboration with the assemblies – I ask you, honourable Member, to help us. Help us, from the parliamentary group, to, for example, the cities – especially the metropolitan ones – that have mayors and mayors of their political group firmly apostate for the storm and for the retraction as a mechanism to expand social housing and respond to the case of residential exclusion, preventing those affected from resorting to the option of illegal occupation. Therefore, help us to have those figures I gave you before– 2800, 150_million versus 700, 44_million– increase, and increase significantly. If we make the list and put names and surnames to these municipalities that haven't been enough for this way yet, then I would actually see why I was referring to the strength that I made to the principle of my intervention. I ask you to help us. I would also ask you to help us in the proposal, to give acknowledgment to the proposal of the Catalan lawyer, to modify the Lecrim, and that the illegal occupation of housing of small owners, social entities and administrations have a firm judicial response in less than forty-eight hours. Help us with this; help us to get this where we need to get to. I would also ask you to help – as you are so concerned about the occupations and empty habitats – to get the involvement of the assemblies on government, so that this co-financing of the habitat inspections that I have announced as new, that we will start to apply in the 17/19 deployment, of this one that you did not reap. From the answer to this question, we can draw a clear conclusion on the reasons for this question. If I don't respond and we don't get results, surely the motivation was, as I said, therefore, clearly partisan and opportunistic. Help us that the government can expand the size of what it already does in terms of empty housing and occupations and we will see that the motivation for the inquiry was indeed real and of social concern for this area. We believe that if you, in your parliamentary office, commit yourselves to making the assemblies where they govern decisively for the tempteig, that if you support with us the proposal to modify the Lecrim, and that if you help us to make the governing assemblies for the PSC say yes to the co-financing of inspections, we will have taken a step forward that will justify this debate today. Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the Day of Dyslexia]] [[401-00041/12]] Before we continue with the agenda, we will proceed to read the institutional statement that all parliamentary groups have approved in relation to Dyslexia Day. Now ask the secretary first, Mr. Eusebi Campdepadrós, who reads this statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.24.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the Day of Dyslexia. October 8th is Dyslexia Day, an invisible disorder affecting 10_per_cent of the world's population. The Parliament of Catalonia joins the visibility task of this disorder so that detection and corresponding action are still early, essential to avoid the school failure associated with this neurobiological disorder when it is not detected in time. For this reason, the Parliament of Catalonia sympathizes with this cause, joins the campaign for dyslexia, and gives support to the petition submitted to the United Nations so that October 8th will be the International Day of Dislexia. Palau del Parlament, October 8, 2020. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Campdepadrós. [[Asking the Government about the Presuppositional Management of Hard Rock's Project]] [[300-00304/12]] We continue now with the new point of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the presuppositional management of the Hard Rock project, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose the inquiry, has the word Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.26.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning, Counselor. The first one we wanted to say was that this inquiry wasn't for you, was it? I want to be honest about this. We didn't know that you handled the government's supposition, that we wanted to make an inquiry about Hard Rock's supposition management... so we didn't know that you handled the government's supposition management. Or maybe it's that the door is opened by Mr. Tremosa and not Vice President Aragonès, isn't it? We have the feeling that, with Hard Rock, Vice President Pere Aragonès falls in love, huh? He does not want to give his face before the Parliament of Catalonia in which is the construction of the largest casino in Europe. And it seems that this doesn't go with him or with Esquerra Republicana, that makes you see that this doesn't know anything and that it doesn't form part of the government, doesn't it? There is one who has the strategy of intelligent confrontation and it seems that Mr Pere Aragonès and Esquerra Republicana have the strategy of intelligent silence. I mean, let's see that they don't know anything about Hard Rock Cafe and that they don't know anything about the biggest casino project in Europe. I also want to remember that the past 15 generation, that is to say, more than two months ago, approved the joint appearance, in this case, of the councillor of Territory and the vice president and councillor of Economy, in any case, to give explanations on the conditions of purchase of the land of Hard Rock. It is said, deut_mesos– deut_mesos– that this Parliament approved that Vice-President Aragonès had to give his face, so he had to give the relevant explanations about, in this case, also, as we say, the conditions under which the sale process of Hard Rock Cafe was produced. So, it's time for Vice President Aragones to jump in, huh? And he says vice president Aragones is looking for excuses for not giving explanations in this Parliament. Let's hope that the week you see, that there will finally be this joint appearance between Mr. Calvet and Mr. Aragonès, so we don't have a new surprise and love one more time, after, in this case, the Counsellor of Territori. And enter, in this case, the content of the inquiry. Miri: You already know that we have very different country models. I'd say antagonists, huh? But, well, I think, at least, it's nice that, unlike Republican Left, you give your face. Take the debate. We can have a debate, I would say democratic, in which, well, we have a position, you have a country model. But I think it's fair to recognize that, as a matter of fact, you're making a face and not like the vice president, so you're messing around and making it look like it's not with him, right? We have a model that we think is different from this government. Also with the product model. I mean, I think you're making a bet for a wrong product model. And we understand that Hard Rock's example is the clearest, right? And it's true that in this Marx brothers' cabin species that the Government of the Generality has become, therefore, Vice President Aragones has taken over the role of the Marx brothers' mute, but more than that, it's a bat bull species that the Government has become, isn't it? The first thing I want to highlight is what we're talking about, that's to say, what the Hard Rock project represents. That it is a model of tourism that is absolutely obsolete, ancient, that it is to bet again for the tourism of sun and platja, but, at once, add to it, in this case, the one that represents the game, or the one that represents the largest casino in Europe, right? We understand that this project is an aberration from an absolute environmental point of view. What are we talking about? There are 1,200 black butts, more than a hundred tableaus, two hotels, an unusual swimming pool, a large shopping centre. That's what Hard Rock is. And this is the bet of the Government of the Generality, of the Aragonese-Three Government, to boost the economy, huh? This is the big bet, the Twitter gang, the Business Councilor, the Economy Councilor, and also, obviously, the Territorial Councilor, isn't it? But we understand that Catalonia's bet should be the ecological transition, the research, the science bet, the digital economy bet, and not a project that ultimately needed – because I want to remember where we came from – with, first, Hard Rock; well, now Hard Rock, before BCN World; but all this was due to Eurovegas' failed project. And that the Generality, before the risk that this project might go to Madrid, took the issue of BCN World out of hand and then, Hard Rock Cafe. But what I don't understand is what this project is for if, in the end, what should be the priority of this government is to re-launch industry and protect the industrial sector, at a time when the economic transition is necessary, right? And, besides, I think the government has said some real things or, I'd say, all of a sudden, you lie about this project. I think he lied, and I know it's hard to say, but he lied to the Territorial Councillor, he lied to the President, or, in this case, to the Generality, Mr. Torra, and he lied to the President in office, Mr. Aragonès. Because they said this wouldn't cost a public euro. And besides, they've always explained that this would happen in an act. Then, the sale process of Hard Rock, said, from the Generality to "the Box and the sale of the Box to the Generality would be produced in a single act, and that, moreover, 120_million would go in and 120_million would go out. And that, for all we know, won't be so, huh? We'll talk about it now. In fact, when I asked him, already on June 2019, I told him, in a question that I asked you, that they were playing Monopoly with Catalan and Catalan money, and that they were playing roulette with Catalan and Catalan resources. And we understand that time has given us reason, and that, in the end, what has happened is that the government has become an addict to this project, that it wants to throw it in front of petitions that I ask, huh? And you were talking about it... and I quote literally, huh? , the phrase that you said to me: "You make a film, a conspiracy theory, of interests of the Box, when there is nothing more far from reality. A movie? Well, I think there's already a movie, that it's a love movie between the government of the generality and the box. Because, in the end, what we're talking about is an operation where the great benefit is the Box. And you have always said that there would be no additional cost and there would be no public investment in the project. And that, under the conditions approved by the government on March 3, this cannot be guaranteed. And I'll give it back to you now, won't I? Why do I ask? Is that right? And that'd be nice to know, too. The government approved, on March 3, the conditions that have been published in the different newspapers, from the agreement between Hard Rock, "the Caixa and the Government of the Generalitat through the Incasòl, yes or no? And the whole government approved it. Because what's wrong..., also the gift a council: don't let the Republican Left drag them to death. But, anyway, this was approved by the whole government, yes or no? So the answer is yes, because it forms part of the agreements of government, which I will refer to later, which they did not explain to the press release. The second question that I ask you is: is it true or is it not true that the Generalitat has to advance 120_million euros, but it only recovers 24 and, in any case, at the end of June 2022 would it recover the remaining 96_million euros? What do you mean, the general's going to the bank to buy some land from a bank? Then we become, in this case, "hard rock lender". What's the money for this? Through Incasòl? Is it through Incasòl's dating engagements? Will this jeopardize the ability of Incasól to promote social life in Catalonia? To boost industrial policy through the purchase of industrial soil in Catalonia, yes or no? That's what we want to know, of course. Is it true or is it not true that the Generality, if there is a judicial appeal of the former landowners and the judgment is favourable, will assume the compensation that may arise from this judicial judgment? Is that true or not? If it's true, as the conditions say, you can't say that this won't cost any European public, because you don't know that. The fourth question: is it true or is it not true that the Generality is obliged, for two years, to buy land from Hard Rock? That is to say, we would have bought them from the Box, and in any case we would have to eat the land, if the urban plan is changed. That's what happened, by the way. That is to say, if you had signed the contract with Hard Rock on the conditions that were approved on March 3, you had eaten and the Catalans and Catalans would have given 120_million euros to the Box and we had eaten our land because Hard Rock had returned us. Is that true or not? According to the conditions, it's true. I mean, they're posted to the generality's web page. I, in the end, would also like to know who negotiated this wonderful contract. Was it you? Was it the Incasole? Did you know about the economy? Because I seem to see that Economy doesn't know anything about it. Didn't the Department of Economics know about these conditions? So, I, in any case, also don't know how to give advice, but that's what I told him: don't eat this brown. Now, I understand that Mr. Aragones does not have time to give explanations because his election campaign does not pass to give explanations of Hard Rock Cafe, but you also want to be a candidate for the Generality. So, in any case, explain whether this has been negotiated jointly, as I believe, that this has been negotiated jointly by the Department of Territories with the Department of Economy, and, as much as the Republican Left Carrier tomorrow explains to the Government, this is a joint work, not a brown man, or, in any case, an explanation as he has been, isn't it? Then, on the second side, I'll ask him what's going on with the TSJ, but I end up with a reflection. Isn't it time you let him be? If with the feeling of the TSJ, even with the conditions that are coming up..., isn't it time to stop playing Monopoly, stop playing roulette with the resources of Catalans and Catalans and bet on what is really needed? It's like, well, you can be the ones in the game tables and you can be the ones in the casinos. We believe that the players are electric drums and the bet for the ecological transition and for the protection of the industry in Catalonia. But anyway, I say to you, as a democratic point of view, we demand that in these months of inter-internship and government practically in operation, with some elections at the door, you do not sign the contract with Hard Rock Cafe, and less with the conditions that have been published, and that you approved March 3, solidly, I understand, the whole government, and not just a part of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to give the answer to the inquiry, has the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.28.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputies, deputies. Mr. Congressman, the truth is I don't match people or anything. [[the timer riu]] With everything that meant his inquiry. And in the first place, let him say that no one tries to hang death on anyone, nor does anyone eat brown, because this is neither a dead nor a brown; he is well alive, this project. Neither is he a dead man nor is he a brown man, and therefore, so to speak, is not a pilot passing between departments and hiding him, but he has full force and is managed with light and stenographers, and is a project of the Government – of the Government. The questions are to the government and, therefore, I answer them; I have been able to answer them by Mr Pere Aragonès. In any case, the week is coming, if I am not mistaken, on the 15th we are both, in prayer, to give account before the Commission, the Joint Committee of Territories and the Economy, it seems to me, if I am not mistaken, of all the complexity of this project. « Complexity, this is a key word. It's a complex project, like so many others – like so many others. Jo, geez, as far as you don't... you'd be missing more, wouldn't you? That I don't respect it, that you don't... go, don't understand it, don't share it, but many others do. In the first place, this Parliament – in the first place, this Parliament – let us make it clear. This whole project emanates from a law that passed this Parliament by a majority, and therefore the Government is applying to what is available to the law. Throughout the development of this project, the international casino competition, the urban director's plan or all the action being taken by the Incasól – which I will now refer to – is complete with the mandate of this Parliament. It was approved, the law, here in this Parliament. It's the law, if I'm not mistaken, 6/14. The year 2014, after one, go, long negotiations and the whole parliamentary process. I was on Councillor Recoder's team at that time, and I had to, including, come here to Parliament on various occasions to talk to parliamentary groups, and approved it by a majority, so enough. And therefore, this project is not an invention of this government or of the previous government, no, no, it is a product of the mandate of this Parliament, of Law 6/2014. What's that Law 6/14 doing? Develop an earlier law, which is, if I'm not mistaken, 2/89. What did Law 2/89 do? And, therefore, I'm not getting too long in time, but to justify it. So he created the recreation and tourism center, the recreation and tourism center of Vila-seca and Salou. The law also allowed to create another tourist recreation center in the north, huh? , from Barcelona to the north, but in any case, it developed only to the south, which was from Barcelona to the south, to Vila-seca i Salou. That is to say, from the eighties, materialized finally with the opening of Port Aventura in the year 92, the Government of the Generalitat, with the agents of the territory, with the socioeconomic agents, to develop a certain model of tourism in a certain territorial area. Why? Because... Home, it's obvious, that we have to make the energy transition and raise industry and face all the economic complexities we have with the country, but also count on tourism. Tourism is a normal part of ours, saysim, "economic combo and finance, eh? We have a high percentage of GDP based on tourism, and according to the fonts sometimes it is spoken between 12 and 15_per_cent. And is tourism the same? No, tourism isn't the same. Tourism, at the same time, has all the complexity of various targets, different locations, different characteristics. One of the aspects of tourism that we don't have enough dimension in Catalonia is all that makes reference to convention tourism, what's it say, huh? And, therefore, the Government of the Generality thought that what it had created in the 1980s, the tourist recreation centre, like almost the only sector of economic activity completely specialized in the country, 825_hectares dedicated to tourism – recreation and tourism center – can also fit in with what is an evolution of a certain type of tourism, which is this of the conventions. Therefore, a diverse economic model of the country, we do not have a monoculture with one or other theme, a model of diverse tourism, a specialized territory based on one law, the 89, and with another law, the 6/14, and what do we do? So concentrate-there, yeah, concentrate-inversions. If you're talking to me about... no, this project, with what size and place anywhere in the country... man, this would have to go through, say, a lot of planning, but it's exactly where you think you can, following the planning, fit this project, it's in a place that we specialize in tourism. Therefore, yes, I answer to a country model, which we certainly do not share, but I answer to a model – to a model – in which the complexity and everything that is to have elements that is counterposed and that, in the end, add to the economic dynamism, the generation of occupation of all types and, therefore, the maintenance and increase of the welfare state, so this project forms part of this whole vision. It forms part of this whole vision, with all normality, and emanates, I insist, from a law of Parliament. Therefore, we are very convinced of what we are doing. And I let'mafegate them one thing: you talked about the gene of this Hard Rock project coming from the Eurovegas; the Eurovegas project started with the tripartite – it started with the tripartite. Mr. Adelson came to see the tripartite government and started a whole series of negotiations, from a territorial and economic point of view. And then the government of President Mas – I was part of the team of Councillor Recoder – collected it and managed it, and, finally, therefore, it came down to the project that we have today, which I think fits much better with the model that we set for us in the year 89 – after this law of the 14th – which was to specialise a territory in recreational and touristic uses. And here we have not only the law, but the casino competition, with light and stenographers, which has won Hard Rock, a board of directors, with light and stenographers, which has passed all the public information processes. He has made submissions, which we have resolved, that he has made two initial approvals, which he has finally been approved. Which now has a feeling, and when we speak about the feeling, because the feeling only closes the director plan, against what has been explained. But in any case, we can talk about it now or at the 15th. And, indeed, then here there was also an important role that is of Incasolo. What's Incase? The Incase exists since the year 80 and has always done the same, also when it has been managed by the tripartite, and you from the Environment and Habitat Department were part of this management. It may or may not please it, but the Incasól what it does is, with its proper foundations, buy, develop, sell, and have enough room to face conditions that remain of estimm, creating conditions for there to be investments like this – like this – and on many, many occasions the Incasól come to an end. And selling on terms is a natural action of the Incasól, because what the Incasól does is to put all its public capacity – it created the year 80 and has always been managed with the same criteria, also when managing the tripartite – because there can be these investments. And, moreover, it does so with criteria, with territorial criteria, with strategic criteria, gathering back to what emanates from Parliament, as the law to which it referred earlier. And the role of Incasòl, again light and tachographs. Yes, indeed, indeed. On the agreement of the March government, published, to which you have only been aware when a newspaper has published it, but it is from the March published, there is a series of erasers of minutes – erasers of minutes – in which they mark erasers of minutes, because until it goes to the notari it is not converted into minutes, in which they have finished and guaranteed. And, therefore, at these moments where are we? So working, like we can't do otherwise, every day practically, with people who are the private promoters of the Hard Rock project – which is not just Hard Rock, it has an alliance with more entrepreneurs – because that can be a reality. We want it to be a reality. There are detractors, indeed, but, in any case, they emanate, I insist, from a majority of this Parliament, and there are many people, for example, the assemblies of Vila-seca or Salou, the socio-economic agents of Camp de Tarragona or many socioeconomic agents at national level who have said: "Listen, continue with this project. Therefore, it is not time to let it be, nor much less; it is time to follow. Complex projects need perseverance, there are many projects in this country that have been implemented for decades, and we are ahead of a project that has this dimension of complexity that needs all the government's effort. All the economic reports that accompany the government agreements are these, economic reports that show that, in fact, there has been no presuppositional impact. And I repeat a phrase that we have said on more than one occasion, not just me, but also Vice President Aragonès and President Quim Torra, which is that there is no public euro destined for the development of this project. Thank you, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, the honourable Member, Mr David Cid, has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.30.0	Do you know why Eurovegas didn't do it? I'll explain why Eurovegas wasn't done: because Prat had a mayor who said Lluís Tejedor who said that Eurovegas wasn't going to do the Prat, and that it was going to protect Prat's agricultural park, and that Prat's aquifers couldn't be used to build the largest casino in Europe. That's why he didn't do Eurovegas, and that's why he went, in this case, to Camp Tarragona, obviously, where you say the mayors of Vila-seca and Salou are in favor of this project. But that's why we didn't do Eurovegas, because there was a different model of country and, in this case, also city, about which we wanted. Because you say, "You don't understand what this means, you don't understand the project. No, no, if I understand it perfectly. The problem is that when you talk, it doesn't talk about what it really is. Because you say, "No, it's the convention tourism. No, look, it's not the convention tour. We're... or we're some great convention tourism advocates. Barcelona is a city in front of congress tourism, which is a tourist of added value. Certainly, we presented a proposal to the general policy debate on a national pact and a national plan for sustainable tourism which you voted against. If we want to talk about tourism, that's not a convention tourism. Listen, we're talking about the biggest casino in Europe, a hundred gaming tables; or so, this is a model of tourism based on poker, blackjack, roulette and, as my avia says, slots, there are 1,200. That's Hard Rock. Explain it to me, or so on, as the least I can explain what they want to do at Camp Tarragona. And, look, if we want strategic investments at Camp Tarragona, and if Incasòl wants to play economic politics at Camp Tarragona, then we see in what way we do the train to Camp Tarragona, which is worth 80_million euros. And that would boost the mobility and the project of territories and bet that a great infrastructure of sustainable mobility we have at Camp Tarragona, and we don't turn Camp Tarragona into a model that I think is exhausted, that is of mass tourism, in addition to a climate-emergency context. We must continue to bet on the tourism monoculture, which, yes, represents 12_percent of GDP..., but are we seeing what has happened at a time like the present, of crisis and health emergence? It's that they have an economic model that will bring us to ruin. If what we have to do is protect the Penedès industry, do not build a casino macroproject at Camp de Tarragona, which, moreover, and the entities also say against ludopathy, which has many conditionings and many side effects so much addiction to the game as well as black dinner movement associated with the game's business. See, Macau is what Macau is. Do we want to convert the Camp de Tarragona into the Macau of southern Europe? Is that the model of the generality? That's what we're talking about. I'm looking, I'm sorry, huh? But the feeling of the TSJ is an unusual buffet. What you are literally saying is that free space and equipment are in the area of heavy accidents in the chemical industry. Well, then, someone was wrong to define the project, and so they have to refer to it, and as you are at least the same time saying that you will cheat one year, another time, this project – by luck, by fate you will cheat one year. What I hope is that in the end Hard Rock will end up going back, because if it's for you, we'll end up with a casino at Camp Tarragona asking for. And I feel it, but I think it's an unusual mistake. And, look, it's not true that this is not a public European cost, they can't guarantee it. You always said, and I think... and, besides, I reaffirm myself. So, there are statements in this Parliament that it was: they obstruct 120_millions and exit 120_millions, at the same time, and that this would not pose any risk to the Generality. He didn't answer me. Are the conditions the ones that were approved or not? Is it to say, Hard Rock has a clause that will allow him for two years to return the lands to the Generalitat, whether the urban master plan is changed or not, in this case, the urban improvement plans are approved? Yes or no? That's the key question. Is it the Generality that assumes the possible compensation, if there are judicial claims, and will have to pay them, in this case, the Generality, or not the Box or not Hard Rock? Yes or no? This, I'm sorry, but it's a "box" suit that's the one that's making this operation, and it's safe. They come to land at 100_million euros, the Generalitat assumes the risk of an operation that is because Hard Rock built the largest casino in southern Europe. And that's what this operation represents. And, listen, every time there are fewer people that you don't see clearly, because that's not what you approved or what you explained or said; the issue is the concrete conditions. And I insist on that. You've made them a tailor-made suit for the Box. I, miri, I'm going back to demand... with the least, too, right? I mean, in this legislature, I don't approve the sale process, because there can be another government that says that these conditions are unacceptable. I'm telling you, we think they're unacceptable. And I already know, that's to say, if you continue to feel the Counselor of Territories and Mr. Aragones continues to the government we will eat Hard Rock. But I'm not afraid of this government, am I? , from the Marx brothers' cabin, follow the government that we will have in our own legislature. And, therefore, I, to all those people who are against the Hard Rock Cafe, I say, they have a very clear vote, which is ours. And we'll do whatever we can to stop this project. I already know that if you continue, so, obviously, you will do this project, as the C-32 will do, as will everything you need in a climate-emergency context, which I believe is not the one that touches. And I say to him: more electric drums and less game tables, which is what Catalonia needs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. To finish, the word "Territori Councillor" is again written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.32.0	Thank you, Vice President. Congressman, more electric batteries and more tourism-related projects, projects of excellence like Hard Rock, sense of doubt, everything, we need everything, for economic reactivation, and always focusing economic reactivation with the prism of the Green Agenda, so we need all kinds of investments. This too, because it is an investment that will be located in a territory specialized in recreational and touristic uses, with everything that represents the incorporation also of elements of sustainability and energy efficiency, for example, with the use of water or with the use of energy, which we are working on. Therefore, this is an important project, with which the full Government will continue to work, on which you can continue to have the opinion you want and the political and partisan position you want, and to call on the vote from this position. Well, then the vote brings us where we go, huh? And so, yes, indeed, we collect this project, you don't, and, I don't know, we'll find ourselves in the polls, to hear us, right? All right, so that'll be it. Then we will really see in what is the correlation of forces in the municipalities and in the Camp of Tarragona where everyone remains. In any case, we note that this project actually has a lot of recollection and has a lot of complexity to pull it forward, I insist, like others on the length of the story. Because, if it was for you, it's that they would get rid of the Port Adventure map. If it were for you, you would do it – you would do it. So don't come to me now that you're against this project. You, if you could, would erase the CRT and erase Port Adventure, which is an unquestionable reality that has brought much added value to Camp Tarragona, and which is complemented by many other projects that we also draw from the government. Because you claim investments at Tarragona Camp and I want to remind you that, in parallel to us working on this Hard Rock project, so we are also collecting, with all the urban complicity, the area of logistic activities of the port of Tarragona. Certainly, this area of logistic activities incorporates a contradiction with a spring in order to be able to carry crucibles, crucibles that fit into the tourist offer of this area, believe that – technology is in our favor – doubtless, they will dock in electrified springs and use boats to minimize their carbon footprint. Therefore, you take a fixed photo, to say: "With the pandemic and with the climate emergency we have to put an end to everything. And I take a picture a little more dynamic, and I go to give or fifteen or twenty years and say: it's not about shutting down the activity, it's about decarbonizing the activity. I've been a little bit on the subject, but it was a debate that I find interesting and that we've kept on other occasions. Therefore, yes, this project also forms part of this strategy of having a diversified country and a country that seeks the environmental values that, sense of doubt, say, not only now that we are here, but for future generations and for the protection of the planet, we must constantly – constantly. Then you repeated, and it is almost an electoral slogan, that here we are making the casino... Listen, the world, say so, can be like you want or can be like it is in reality, and in the tourism of conventions, as in many other aspects, has been incorporated in a normal way, among others, that there are game rooms. But there is one in Barcelona. Listen, you're in Barcelona and now you're in Barcelona's convention tourism uniform, as if it were... Listen, so there's a casino in Barcelona. I don't know, start by doing something that respects the casino in Barcelona that there is, or in the creuers, in all and every one of the creuers that dock in Barcelona and that dock in Tarragona – there is also a casino, normally. And, I don't know, the world can be what you want, but the world is what it is, and, therefore, the offer that is made available to the people, because the world is what it is, incorporates normal elements, that have all the guarantees: guarantees respect your workers, eh? , because there has also been talk of conditions – escorts, therefore those that mark the labor regulations – or environmental guarantees, which I have just spoken about, or guarantees respect money laundering and respect addictions. The same law that was passed by this Parliament by most of us – and I remember that this project is collected in a law that emanates from this Parliament, we have neither invented it nor handled it from the manicure, nor is it a capritx, emanating from a law of the Parliament – incorporates elements of control of what is the money laundering, huh? , the money laundering, which has a lot of international observance, and also complementary measures to work against, obviously, addictions, which is a subject that we, like the government, have a lot of present, and which this project needs to collect. And respect the judgment of the High Court of Justice, you note that of the free spaces of the sector u. This is one of the twelve points that had the demand that GEPEC presented to us. Eleven have won, eleven refer to the figure of the director as the figure who develops the law emanating from this Parliament, and in one, all the favorable reports of Civil Protection, points to a theme that we resolve, because the project is alive and we will throw it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the poor child]] [[300-00300/12]] Let us now turn to the point of the order of the day, which is the question to the Government on the poor child, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar. In order to expose the inquiry, Congresswoman Beatriz Silva has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.34.0	Good morning, Counselor. MPs, MPs. In Catalonia there are children who have grown up under the effects of the 2008 economic crisis and who have now moved, without a parenthesis, to a pandemic. They will grow older and their entire childhood and adolescence will have passed under the effects of a continuous economic crisis. The Covid-19 has come to exacerbate situations of precariousness and poverty that affected a very large part of our childhood. Today there are more children living below the poverty line than there were last March, and those who were already living below the poverty line are much worse. Save the Children calculated a couple of months ago that the child poverty rate of 28.6_per_cent we had before the pandemic would be 34.6_per_cent if we did not take urgent and immediate measures to avoid the effects of the crisis resulting from the Covid-19. The latest figures from Idescat speak of 31_percent of child poverty in Catalonia and, if the predictions are met, by the end of the year we will have half_million children who do not have the minimum conditions to develop themselves, who cannot access opportunities that allow them to break the vicious cycle of reproduction of poverty that is transmitted from parents to children. The situation of single-maritime families is dramatic. According to a UNICEF report released a few days ago, 53.6_percent of single-maritime households in Catalonia live below the poverty line. In many of these households, boys and girls live in severe poverty. These are intolerable figures for a society like Catalonia, with a level of wealth proper to a developed country in Western Europe but with a level of child poverty equivalent to one of the poorest countries in the European Union. With this call we want to know what measures the Government of Catalonia is taking to prevent our children and adolescents from being the main victims of a crisis that is nothing more than a continuation of the deprivation situations they have been facing throughout their lives, deprivation situations that are explained by the fact that childhood has not been a priority for the governments of Catalonia in the last decade, which have cut health, education, social services, including child and family policies, which represent the only window that allows the most vulnerable children to leave poverty. Since Mr.Artur Mas boasted in 2011 that he would take the cuts beyond any other administration, without thinking that at that time there were already one_of_five children living below the poverty line, the situation has only made it worse. From the Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group we want to know what the Government has planned to do in relation to households in poverty, especially those in severe poverty. Before the pandemic there were 235,000 households in Catalonia in this situation. Counselor, do you have any estimate of the percentage in which this figure of 235,000 households has grown in these months? Has your Government made any public policy planning that will allow these families to leave severe poverty within a reasonable period of time? I have reviewed all the appearances since you are a counselor and you have never given us from here a correlation between the figures of the child population living in poverty and the impact of the policies that your Government deploys, the needs that cover its policies and those that remain uncovered. And I give you an example. Although there were 235,000 households in Catalonia in severe poverty prior to the pandemic, only 81,000 benefited from guaranteed income from citizenship; 65,5_per_cent remained out of it. We're talking about 154,000 homes. Can you tell me how children and adolescents in these homes live in severe poverty who do not have access to guaranteed income from citizenship? Because we're talking about families with income around 355 euros. A family that lives with 355_euros cannot feed properly or buy adequate clothes when the station changes, cannot cope with the payment of supplies; they live re-housed or in infra-housing. It's a limit situation. We had 154,000 families living in this limit situation without being able to access the guaranteed income of citizenship, but we know that the Covid-19 arrived and nothing was done to correct this situation. We know this because President Quim Torra acknowledged, on July 3, that applications for guaranteed citizenship income had grown by 95_per_cent between March and May, but the Government itself noted in a press release that the number of beneficiaries had increased by only 374; 374 compared to 154,000 households in severe poverty, without the only benefit they could access. Because even though this Parliament has approved it dozens of times, nothing has been done to implement a specific benefit per son or daughter in charge, nor to recover the only one that there was, that the Arthur Mas government has eliminated and that you have done nothing to reverse. I would like to give you another example, that of single-maritime families. According to the latest figures of the INE, Catalonia has 289,300 families in which there is only one adult in charge, which in the vast majority of cases is a woman. If 54_percent of these families are in poverty, as UNICEF tells us, the result is that we have 156,222 single-maritime households that have no way of meeting their needs in Catalonia. In a written reply you informed me that, if we calculated on a broad and flexible basis, a total of 8,078 single-maritime families were beneficiaries before the guaranteed income of citizenship pandemic. Counselor, taking into account his more optimistic calculation, the result is that we have 148,144 single-maritime families in poverty who do not receive guaranteed income from citizenship. Could you tell me what's going on with these families? Do we have an X-ray of the situation? How many children live in it? Does your Government have any plans to ensure that they can at some point meet their needs? What is the horizon that has been set? There is another old problem, and it is the access to food for the most vulnerable children, which is insufficient or unbalanced. Since the previous economic crisis, we have been carrying serious problems of child malnutrition, denounced by Third Sector entities and other agencies working with children. In 2011, the Survey of Living Conditions showed that 4_percent of children under the age of 16 in Catalonia did not have access to adequate or adequate food. In particular, fifty-thousand. Since then, governments have been announcing protocols that have never been deployed. When the legislature began we asked for the minutes of the meetings of the different groups that were created to implement the different protocols, and the only thing we received were three sheets, three sheets of the only three meetings that were held in all these years. What is the impression that a new Member like me has when she receives such a thing? In the midst of an economic crisis, the entities, the Syndic, the Survey of Living Conditions denounce severe deprivation of children's access to food, and no one takes it seriously for years. The only figure provided by the Government is 2015 at the request of my parliamentary group: 70,239 children and adolescents who did not eat properly. We're talking about that they don't eat meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, because their families can't afford it, or, worse, they go to bed hungry because they don't eat enough. My colleague Esther Niubó constantly remembers here that Constellera Rigau eliminated the dining grants in high school, and since then no government, nor hers, has been able to reverse one of the most tearing cuts of the last decade: to prevent the access of adolescents who have no resources to the possibility of eating at noon. In 2018, the Committee on Children adopted a motion for a resolution tabled by my parliamentary group to comply with the protocols and to account for cases in order to be able to take action, as laid down in the protocols themselves. But a year later his Government had done nothing, and sent a compliance check saying that they would not hand over the report or account for the boys and girls because they were already making sure that everyone ate. Just like that. Without concrete data on the affected child population, how the thousands and thousands of cases of malnutrition had been reversed. We are supposed to have faith and believe that you have invented a new way of making public policies without a diagnosis, even though in any administration the normal thing is that this is an indispensable first step. If there are no data or monitoring mechanisms, if we don't know who policies are directed to, what kind of public policies do we do in Catalonia, counselor? I am running out of time, but I would like to remind you that I am asking you about some very specific issues: 154,000 families in severe poverty who do not receive guaranteed income from citizenship or other benefits, 156,222 single-maritime households living below the poverty level who do not receive guaranteed income from citizenship or any other benefits. Does your Government have a plan to lower this figure? Have goals been set? What steps do you plan to take? One of the last times you spoke here of child poverty said that everything was going to increase employment, but the UNICEF report that came out a few days ago, and that analyses the data from Catalonia, says quite the opposite. When employment figures grow in Catalonia, child poverty remains the same. It's not a matter of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, there is now the word of the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.36.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, MP Silva. Let's get into one of the most complex, most important aspects of any society. With some figures that do not please us, neither Catalonia nor the Spanish State, that do not please us, with a reality that has to be addressed in a multifactorial way, because we will not take a global approach to what the risk of poor children and adolescents in our country means if we do not do so from a global perspective. A global perspective that this Government has promoted by setting an example with some things as simple as using UNICEF criteria at the time of assessing the assumptions surrounding child investment. So simple, we're the only ones that fem. And I think it allows you to have a global look and allows you to have an honest look. What you said, the diagnostic, is key, and as the diagnostic is key, it must be transparent with these data. We are sure that we will soon find that other governments will set an example in all areas, territorial areas, in the sphere of the State. We're not sure, we're not sure because it's the way to get a good diagnosis. In this sense, remind him that we have done one thing, and we have done it especially at the time of the pandemic and of all the affect that the pandemic has had, that it has an affect more than the health and the social environment: he has worked together around the diagnosis and around the proposals. The Children's Rights Watcher has never had such an intense functioning, with so much force, a space that is co-governance with entities, that is co-governance with other administrations, that it is co-governance with all agents, like the functioning he has had, the Children's Rights Watcher, during the pandemic. You have set me up with various concrete aspects, with data, with some data we believe, with different fonts, and this always has a methodological element. It may be an element that can help you take it, but when you find different background data, you have methodological problems. But I don't deny the major, not much less. One of the most important challenges we have as a society is the risk of child poverty, and in this we are working. I do want to tell you a question, about the end of your intervention. I don't agree. To plant that the poor child has nothing to do with the situations linked to work, to quality work, a quality work that in this country unfortunately cannot protect, because there is a regulation, with labor reforms that were not agreed in the framework of the social dialogue, labor reforms of the socialist party, of the People's Party that affect the quality of work, situating that has nothing to do with work, I tell you that there is no agreement. I think you have a lot to see with work; you have a lot to see with the working situation of families; you have a lot to see not only with occupation..., because I'm sure it can be simplified a lot, but when I talk about work I don't only talk about occupation, I talk about quality work; there's a lot to see. And I think we would be wrong without having this look, basically because of a question that I think is important to remember, and especially from certain ideological areas: public resources come, basically, from the returns of the work. Public policy resources come, basically, from the returns of workers' and workers' jobs. We certainly need to reflect on this and we need to generate a much more just tax system. But don't be aware of the importance... because it's because basically all public policies are doing with the effort and the support of the resources given by the workers of this country, I think it's a mistake and I think there's a lot to see. I share that we don't have a shared look at this. It's normal, we don't have to have a shared look, but I did want to do this and put it where I stand, and I think I'm growing a lot in that position. Quality work has a lot to see, with the situation. Because, in the end, you told me about family situations. You told me about single-parent families, which in a 90_per_cent are headed by women. Those single-parent families who have now, if their child has been in close contact with a child of the class who has been in good standing, have no reconciliation mechanisms. They don't have mechanisms to take care of their children. They have no mechanism to ensure a deure, which is the right to protect infants and to care for infants. You're looking forward to it. Wear three weeks of class. I don't know, maybe we'll have the proposal when the course is finished or maybe we'll go to the September exam. I don't know. But I can also remember, can't I? I also need to remind you, because you look at yourself if it affects you and look at you if it affects the environment. If you're in a situation of social vulnerability, we've done the job. It is already agreed with the federation and association a specific benefit in order to be able to ensure the ability to do these processes of isolation and confinement in the best conditions for those people who are in a situation of vulnerability. So do it, 'cause you do have to see it. You told me about the guaranteed rent. He seemed curious to me, because throughout his speech... I'll give him money from guaranteed income. Three years ago we had the minimum income of insertion, covered 68,000 people. Right now with guaranteed income we're not covering more than 141,000, so an increase of more than one hundred per cent; it has an import. We covered an element that was agreed in this Parliament, and that was agreed unanimously. In the deployment process, we went to a situation where we insured a hundred euros per child linked to the performance, and the appeal was completed and we already have it. With figures that have nothing to do with the minimum income of insertion or have nothing to do with the figures of the minimum vital income. Right now, 47_percent of the requests you are a guaranteed income fan finish well, and those that do not finish well are because they do not meet the criteria that were approved in law in this Parliament. 47_per_cent. And I am aware that it touched me to take a very complex situation, but when I arrived – for several reasons, I will not discuss them here – I was in a 9_per_cent. With minimum vital income we will suffer. And I know very clearly, and it will cost – it will cost – but right now only 1.4_percent of the guaranteed income beneficiaries have moved to the right of the minimum vital income. When we build something that is very positive, but which must help us in the principles of subsidiarity and complementarity, which are only 1.4_per_cent..., we are in one_month and a half at the time of being able to solve it. A week ago he modified the royal decree of the vital minimum income with a time to be able to settle six_months. I don't know if that's the best way to deal with poor situations. I'm conscious, huh? The guaranteed income is not meant to be survived. That's why we did the two-hundred-euro service, for situations of people..., 75_percent of people who were at ERTO, who didn't charge the benefit to what they had right. And in fifteen days we joined one hundred and a thousand families– basically, a very important, single parent percentage. And we do have plans. Now, 1.4 right now isn't what we thought it would be. And I don't think it's what he thought would be the same government as the state, and he accepted it, the minister. We'll have to improve it, because one of the things we're talking about is between the observer's area and what we're talking about between the secured income governance board's area – because guaranteed income has a government board with all the participation, unlike the minimum vital income, that the same unions are complaining that it was done without a powerful social dialogue – is that the margins that gave us the minimum vital income we need to use. And one of the proposals I have received from the observer is to look into the realm of child poverty. He's also found aspects around what we're doing. I, if you like, explain to you how we have tripled the leureus education assumption to ensure this right, which is also important; how we have worked on the theme of SIS currency tags and open centres, and also on education; how we have worked on a specific benefit to ensure during the summer any child who has feeding problems; how we have worked with social fabric, with public-social collaboration, to help specific families with children, with a suitable specification for Red Creed; how we are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.37.0	You're out of here, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.38.0	...also, in the period of renegotiation of the social services program contract, you serve us that I will now explain, and that I think they can be very, very necessary and interesting to face this challenge, that I think we have to do it among all and we have to place the co-responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.39.0	Ahabi, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.40.0	...and the cooperation of all administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.41.0	Thank you. For the reply, Mrs Beatriz Silva has the new word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.42.0	As a matter of fact, Councillor, you have not answered the question I have raised. He has come up here, he has explained some specific measures, without quantifying, which is always what he does, but I have asked him, since we are at the end of the legislature, to explain to me what his Government has plan to change this situation. These global figures, which you say, which recognise, if this plan exists, because if there is no plan, medium- and long-term planning, what we are doing are policies that consist only of putting on patches, which is this constant enumeration of ‘we give scholarships, we give.... We are talking about severe child poverty, child malnutrition, in a territory that has resources of its own in a rich region; there should be a plan. If we don't know how many boys and girls aren't eating, who are they, where they live, how can you send a compliance check that says you guarantee everyone is eating? How are public policies deployed if we do not know which population we are applying? How are monitoring mechanisms put in place if we do not carry out regular evaluations? In monitoring compliance with the resolutions in which we asked you to deploy at least one of the protocols on child malnutrition you said that it was not necessary to count cases because the care of children at risk was low, textual, "a comprehensive vision that addresses all deficiencies, not one by one. How can he claim that he provides comprehensive care on a case - by - case basis when they have 154,000 families in severe poverty who do not receive guaranteed income from citizenship, so they do not receive any benefit because there is no other? And if there is any other, explain to me how they live. Look, I have tried to list the times that this Parliament has approved in this legislature increase the share of GDP that Catalonia devotes to children's and family policies from 0.8_per_cent of GDP to 2.4_per_cent of the European average. It is something that comes out in every resolution and motion related to childhood, and always, always the formations that are part of the Government, including yours, vote in favour. They vote in favour, but then you send us a compliance check which says that this cannot be done because: one, Catalonia, by not being a state cannot say that it has a GDP, for this we do not have GDP ; two, because the European system of social protection statistics is not up to date, that is to say the European institutions are wrong, and three, because the budgetary impact would be very high, which is the real reason, they are not willing, nor Republican Esquerra nor Junts per Cat, to allocate 2.4_percent of Catalonia's GDP to children and family policies. And it also tells us, once again, here, that they will implement this new tool to measure the investment that UNICEF has provided to them, a tool that is not using anyone, as you yourself have just recognized, so we cannot compare with anything, it is not useful statistically, and that it does not serve anything if we do not allocate more resources for benefits that draw from poverty to those families where 31_per_cent of children live who do not have access to a minimum standard of living. We can measure investment in a thousand ways, but as long as resources remain the same – totally inadequate – the numbers of child poverty will remain the same or worse, because we now have a new economic crisis ahead of us that we do not know how it will end. I ask you, Counselor, if you really believe that the European statistical tool measuring child and family policies is not useful for Catalonia. Why do they vote in favour of this item? Why not explain from here what you have written and voted against? It is that five months after this compliance check arrived, his formation and his government partner, Junts per Cat, again voted in favour of the motion presented by my colleague Raúl Moreno on December 12: increasing the policies of children and families to 2,4_per_cent of the gross domestic product. How is this explained? The same applies to the deployment of the Children's Act, which has been waiting since 2010 for regulations and resources to be implemented. We're voting and voting they will, but they don't. This was on his own Pla de Govern. If they haven't deployed the Children's Act in ten years, it's because they don't want to deploy it. Why do they keep voting here saying they will? You have noted that the figures may have methodological problems, but, of course, the figures we are talking about come out in reports that UNICEF, Save the Children, Foessa..., because his Government is unable to provide a diagnosis of the situation on which to work, a diagnosis that this Parliament can legislate and that his Government can deploy effective public policies so that all the children of Catalonia finally have access to a dignified life. And now I'd ask you to try to answer me something I asked you today, counselor. What is the plan to end child poverty? What are the goals? What are the deadlines? Do you have them?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To finish this question, the words of the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.44.0	Congresswoman Silva, you're a regular, huh? I have this feeling and I assume you have it too. I think... as long as I don't think we have dialects, we have monolegs, we don't listen to each other. And I'm worried, when we make monologues and don't listen to each other; when we're very clear about what we're going to say, but we're not just able to listen and say, "Hey, I don't share that, yeah, but I'm really hooked up with the argument line. It's that, of course, you told me that we have to have a global plan on child poverty, where we don't have to take into account, because it's a mistake to take into account, the situation of the world of work. You told me that we don't have any diagnostics when we use a tool promoted for UNICEF, that it's innovative, that no one else is using. Now, he also uses UNICEF when he wants to criticize us. No, no, Or use it for everything or for anything. Not for what I want and for what I don't want. I'll give you that thought. You say to me: "We are a state, we are a country, with figures... So much. That is why some, legitimately, legitimately – legitimately and legitimately – want a republic. Because I remember that, and this is also agreed with all social entities. We have a deficit every year of €500_million in social policies, from when the transfer was made; €500_million. Imagine the margin we have. He says: "There is no other benefit except guaranteed income. Madam, please, if you rule in the State. If they've done something that I think is positive, that's the minimum vital income, but right now they don't get caught up in management, but I think it's positive. If I have appreciated it positively. Home, don't tell me there's nothing there. You're the one who doesn't listen to us. I, from here, you can argue. I said, we don't have the same look around the importance of work. I explained to him that we are working around the redefinition of guaranteed income. I also explained it. A 1.4, a 1.4. A 1.4. We've all been waiting a lot longer. We'll be patient. We'll help the maximum. But the reality is that. You say to me: "It is not that he explains concrete things to me. No, no, It is that it is concrete things that are voted in this Parliament. Because then I'm also looking at globals. I try to compare and say: see, the work that the Department of Education and the Department of Labour and Social Affairs did to ensure food during the summer to infants in situations of food risk or poor situation I will look at. I'll see if there are any other territories in the State that you're doing, that you've done this exercise that you asked us to do and that we've located and that we share, the only one that we didn't do in a way... that at the end was also negotiated. Fooder scholarships with the 2018 criteria, the course that started 2018, for a pandemic situation in 2020..., is not the same way. They have criteria that are sometimes not linked to poor situations and we want to extend it as much as possible. I looked at it, and I couldn't find it. And you represent a political force that has, legitimately and lawfully, a project all over the state. So in some areas they have this responsibility. Huh? , all the demand, it would be less. It's his job, to be demanding with the government. But also, from time to time, we remain demanding as we do when we are, because, if not, we will not explain it. In saying: "What is.... It's just that I think it's wrong not to think about overcoming situations of poor children without taking into account the central area, which in the end ensures the dignity of people. He told me about single-parent families when I raised the big problem that single-parent families have now. He didn't say anything. I don't have a problem with that. And he said to me: "No, these are stickers. No, no, It's that we're at a time of emergency and social emergency. So much for it. And there must be concrete and rapid responses. So long as we have a global project, but the global project was linked to something you told me you didn't share. It's all right, but I'm telling him I don't share it. And I think she's the wrong one. And I think she's a wrong person considering the background, because I've explained it to her, too. It's just that I've tried to explain to him how important it is that they have the linked resources of labor returns to do these public policies. And he says to me: "We are in a position to benefit at European level. It's that, unfortunately, we don't have all the resources that citizenship places for the most vulnerable people, which is the case. Because then they cheat on us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.45.0	Ahabi, counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.46.0	Because with the IRPF it is neither the 16_percent of the population, nor the 25_percent that generate the citizens, it is the 12_per_cent, because in social services we always have percentages that do not represent the whole population.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.47.0	You're out of here, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.48.0	And that ends up affecting our infants, it ends up affecting vulnerable people. And that too must be possible, Congresswoman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.49.0	[[The first vice president starts talking without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] Excuse me. [[Question to the Government on economic, business and social reactivation in relation to European funding programmes]] [[300-00303/12]] We continue to turn to the point of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on economic, business and social reactivation in relation to the European foundations programs, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose the inquiry, has the word deputy Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.50.0	Thank you, Vice President. Honourable councillor, deputies, deputies. Good morning. Well, let's think a little bit and ask the councillor for his opinion and his explanations on a subject that concerns us from the Commission of Enterprise, concerns us from the Commission of Economic Reactivation, concerns us, therefore, as deputies and deputies, and concerns us, too, in my case, as mayor of a village in the country, right? We're patenting a post-Covid crisis probably more intense than we predicted. Companies have not just normalized the situation. The situation of confinements that were produced and a little, therefore, the situation of the ERTOs does not progress as had been predicted. The impact of GDP is higher, too, than expected, and, therefore, it is still creating a climate of uncertainty. A crisis, moreover, that affects unequally different sectors of the economy and the business, huh? It's not the same food, it's not the same car, it's not the same night drive, for example, that today, so they're getting a whole bunch of cold water back on, huh? It's not the same in many others, the one that goes down and all the micro-sectors, so, the walkers, the firaries, the colognes, etcetera, and much more, isn't it? Pimes, autonomes, huh? – this is a country of peppers, a country of small and medium-sized enterprises and autonomies, Catalonia – what concerns them? They worry about downsizing orders, they worry about downsizing sales, they worry about liquidity, because they have to continue paying taxes, they have to continue paying the IRPF, they have to continue paying, so, quotes to the social security of autonomies, they also worry about morosity, and they also worry about the debt increase, huh? At last, therefore, in a recent survey, there were about 20_percent of small businesses that were set up and still close. Therefore, our economy is badly affected. And, so, we're worried about the measurements, huh? The other day, the Committee on Economic Reactivation, from the Promotion of Work and from Pimec, also alerted us and placed us on the table, how it can help the small and medium-sized company, how it can help this autonomous who creates jobs, which is a bressol of enterprises. So, for a band, no longer charging, huh? , no longer collecting contributions, no longer charging VAT, no longer charging the IRPF, company tax, taxes or bonus them. That's not what the State did, huh? Some meetings have done so, stop settling, therefore, taxes or defer payments. The State didn't do it, did it? In fact, the same month of March, the month of April they continued to collect these taxes. Neither will there be any reforms, no direct aid, subsidies; we give loans or back-ups, which have also been done, through the Institute of Official Credit. But this generates debt to businesses, and therefore it is certainly not possible to pull forward. And another formula is public investment, huh? , Keynesian politics. Therefore, the State, the Administration acts as a tractor and generates public investment that spills the entire business sector behind it, right? We could say that Spain is late, we're late to take action, huh? , respect other European countries that we have seen– Italia, Alemanya, France. Here the ERTOS, so, until the last moment, when we were about to arrive at the limit, there was no announcement of a new postponement. But it's still insufficient. There are many sectors, as we say, with various impacts. So they certainly require different solutions, too, huh? And we could say, then, that we go late and go badly. There is also uncertainty about the return of holidays, there is uncertainty about, therefore, people who are affected with children at home. It's still a little bit of uncertainty, huh? But while President Sanchez is taking pictures of IBEX 35, we don't see any photos of micro-enterprises, auto-enterprises, businesses, and that's what we're worried about. We are also concerned if these European foundations that yesterday, precisely, President Sánchez announced, therefore, with silverware and candy... really, until we get there? They'll also come up to deal with that structural handicap we're experiencing, huh? And that, besides, we don't say it ourselves, say it the same Foment of Work or say it the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, right? Promotion of the Work talked about up to 28,000_millions in inversion deficit in infrastructure. The chamber was talking about, in the last fifteen years, up to 45,000_million infrastructure deficits. And, therefore, this continues to worry us. But we are also concerned about concrete measures: the Plan of Estimation for the automotive and mobility sector, which the Government of the Xifrava Government itself in 263_millions in its own four or five years; or the National Pact for Industry, the Proper, which is already beginning to develop; or these external networks promoting the Catalan economy and business, which support internationalization and export; Action, which now appears to be in the spotlight; or Proacción's actions, of the Government of the Generality, of the Department of Enterprise, eh? , advancing with the support of digitalization, artificial intelligence, artificial vision, robotics, printing. How gifted are they? Will they be gifted enough? Or would we still be painting this deficit, as we say, that we have in Catalonia's financing? Or the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, too, sifrat, huh? , for Counselor Puigneró, to increase public reinvestment in research and development. He was also telling us that it took about 360 million euros for his own years, huh? Or also to acquit, in universities..., to reach, therefore, 0,8_percent of GDP. All this concerns us, we are concerned because yesterday, when President Sánchez announced, as we say, that he will have the key to the box of these 160,000_millions that will come, many of these issues so concrete that they affect or worry about businesses and peppers and self-government and universities, the researcher, this was not very clear. The one who did make it clear, that there would be no contribution to the regions or the autonomy, to the countries like ours, that who would have the key of the box serial Moncloa and the president, eh? He did talk about digital green economy, green segell, huh? But he didn't talk... he didn't get to those details that keep worrying people about the street. When you find some businessman, when you find some autonomist you ask: "Listen to me, all that is promised, will it arrive, to my box? Is it going to get to my liquidity? Or should I be forced to borrow another time with these endorsements of the ministry or with the credits? So, that's what we're worried about, this species of secrecy, this usual centralism, that goes on, huh? And, therefore, counselor, councillor Tremosa, we are concerned about these things, and we ask them concretely: do you believe that this conference of presidents and this co-governance, which was announced yesterday by Mr. Sánchez, are the best solution? Counselor Tremosa, project advances are to be presented. The first generation will enter the legislation for these reactivation plans. On April 30, 2021, all plans must have been presented. What are we going to do in Catalunya? What will the Government of the Generality do to obtain the maximum possible number of funds destined for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the local authorities, for trade in order to really reactivate the economy and generate jobs, thus stimulating consumption? What are we going to do with the government so that these funds are as profitable as possible and that it is not left in the arks of a State that normally carries our own taxation? How can Catalonian companies access these funds? What's it like to manage? The Generalitat has planned the creation of a support or processing office, as announced a few hours ago? And, therefore, counselor, if you want to explain to us the details, therefore, of these concerns, which are road concerns, concerns about the business fabric, which is the fabric that generates jobs without which it has not been consumed, without which the economy is able to sink. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mr. Ramon Tremosa, now has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.52.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. [[The councilman's in charge.]] I'm sorry, a little bit of... well, see, this is a very important question. I said today in an interview that this quarter that we have in front of us is the most important of the recent history of Catalonia. Because the European Union sets up a recovery fund of €140,000_million at the disposal of the Spanish State and with criteria, in principle, very marked and very conditioned on how these moneys are to be spent. And that, therefore, is a very good opportunity for our country, isn't it? This is an unusual fact, that is to say, I have been given years to the European Parliament if I came here on February 2020 and had wondered what options there were for such a plan as this to be financed with European debt issued jointly for all states would have said zero. Because this is consistent with all that Nordic countries have been doing for years: "No solidarity without responsibility. They call it socialist prime ministers, greens, from all over Europe. I've heard it for two years, and that's a very interesting element. Moreover, the European Union has deployed all its potential, an arsenal of instruments such as public and private debt purchases from the European Central Bank, such as the lines of the Sure and the Mede, created at 30 years to 0.1_per_cent interest, practically this is not a rescue or a credit, it is a long-term donation for a country that, well-inverted, this is a fantastic opportunity. And, in this sense, clearly, if we look at the history of the last twenty years, in the Catalan case, for example, when the public investment was distributed territorially, if we take the facts of the General Intervention of the State Administration, which they found in the newspapers published, we see that when the Spanish Government distributed money for the public investment Catalonia takes between 8 and 10 percent of the annual funds. Some of them, eat others, be nicer or more progress, or have an absolute majority or have a non-absolute majority. There's a fact, let's say, repeat and systematic, isn't there? On the other hand, if we look at the last twenty years, when the European Union has distributed money in competitive, open, transparent competitions, with clear conditions in different European programmes, Catalonia gains a percentage of these important funds. That is to say, Catalonia represents 1.5_percent of the population and GDP of the European Union twenty-seen and in the last twenty years it has taken between 3 and 4_percent of the different funds, already SME funds, Horizon 2020 funds, the funds of the European Research Council. This is due, basically, to Catalonia having a public-private infrastructure of multinational collaboration and enterprises, a network of 650,000 pimes, 8,900 multinationals, universities that make an important effort to transfer research to the enterprise. And, therefore, here is an infrastructure that allows when competition is open, transparent and marked by European rules of play, Catalonia here – in English it would say performing, I don't know how I would say it in Catalan – to evolve, compete successfully. And then here we will now have another shock between the State, which would like to do business as usual and the European Union, which would like it not to be a business as usual, in the sense of saying: we have to change, we have to ensure that these money really serves to recover the economy, to relaunch economic activity, to renew our industry and to continue being an industrial country. This is no longer just for Catalonia, also for other territories of southern Europe. Therefore, I think it is a great blessing, this European foundation above, and I think that in this Parliament we would all agree that the euro has been a very positive element, that the European Union has played a very important role, and not all the countries of southern Europe can say that. In Greece a few years ago there was-there was a reference that almost led the country out of the single currency. And I wouldn't want to imagine how this crisis would have been or 2010 in the case of Spain without the euro, without the single currency, without the European Central Bank, what impacts we wouldn't have had in terms of much worse economic crisis and finance, social, banking corralitos, daltaix in all spheres. So I put a lot of value to this opportunity and that's why a journalist asked me today: "Should the Generalitat go to Madrid on October 26th? I said yes, I said yes. We have an unusual situation, that we have a president that we don't have, but I understand that Catalonia, which is a leading territory in southern Europe on European soil, should be in this table. We'll see whether it's okay or not, because it's a decision the government has to make, we'll see in what terms or not. We would like to say, before the photograph is made, concrete agreements, that the Generalitat already has an office shared with the Spanish Government of negotiation, and that there is an effective participation not only of the Generalitat of Catalonia, but of other territories, in the generation of these projects, in the presentation of these projects, with information to the leaders of this project. That would be very interesting, because until now what we have is a Spanish government that tells us that it was the most progressive of history and the best of history, that there has been a single photograph taken with IBEX 35, and no photographs have been taken with either peppers or social agents to talk about these European foundations. The picture we've all seen. The bridegrooms, the escorts, Mr. Congressman. An act was made to ISE on the other day, and most of the speakers said: "We have to make sure that these 140,000_millions cannot be consumed by Spain because there are no plans for them. It's not my opinion, is it? This can be consulted online, there were the leading experts in the Spanish State and they had reason that there were not enough projects. Why? Because he's centered at the level of Moncloa. I talked to some people in the ministries, I had the feeling that they didn't have all the information either, just Moncloa and his office; maybe his vice president didn't have it either, that he knew about the newspapers, like so many other things. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So from this point of view, it's disturbing that we don't have any more information. And, in this sense, the Government of Catalonia has been doing so for weeks now, and different councils, not just the Council of Enterprise, it is encouraging employers, chambers of commerce, companies to present projects. Because we want to believe that there's gonna be a part of that money that's gonna get to the peppers. I went to Lleida to visit a company the past diver's. A company that exports designs of metro cars and industrial trains to the entire world of the world's leading operators. To break the story that Lleida only has barns and fruit. There's a lot of business ahead of us, too. And when I said to him: "Some lines of recycling or sustainability fit with the breadth you want to make? The entrepreneur said to me a nice phrase: "All my life I have gone to the rib; that is, all the projects that I have done before, the creation of the enterprise, the expansion of the enterprise, of new lines..., I have carried myself without any support. Are you telling me that now in Europe I can have support? This is fabulous for a country – and now I'm talking about Catalonia – where entrepreneurship has been the basis of economic progress; of peppers, basically. And, in this sense, as good as it is possible that many small and medium-sized enterprises, projects that can allow them to double the capacity, hire us licensed, we workers and workers..., that would be the best news we could have. And I'm not saying multinationals don't have to have paper. On the contrary, they're big companies; I'm not saying that. I'm not against multinationals having no paper. On the contrary, they have a tractor paper, and I know some cases of big multinationals – because they have come to introduce us – that will have a very clear redemptive effect on the Catalonian economy, because they will have to do it in collaboration with many small and medium-sized enterprises at different demarcations of Catalonia. That's a lot of good news, but there's also a part of it to go to small and medium-sized businesses. And that's basic for a country. Not only Catalonia, in other territories of the State there is also a great potency in small and medium-sized enterprises, and I think that, therefore, should be possible. In Germany and in other European countries from fifteen days ago, I'm sorry, since two months ago, there have already been lists of projects with names and surnames. And in federal countries regional governments have co-participated since the first moment in the management and preparation of these projects. And that wasn't the Spanish case. There was a government that could do things differently and it didn't. And that's a big deal, because we'd like to believe that some Spanish government can do things better, and, for the time being – sadly, in so many areas, and this is not one – for the time being, it sounds like music that comes to you from different bands of some ministries that want to work with the generality and with the businesses of Catalonia. For example, in the case of the Barcelona Supercomputing Center, very important. One of the main European centres in search of the last years of the European Commission. But at the time of truth there is no concrete answer, no concrete answer, and this we must return to the Spanish Government. So much good – also for the Spanish State, for its conjunction – this plan is a better quality and not the business as usual, unfortunately, that we know so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. I don't know if the congressman wants to use the line... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, [[Question to the Government on the situation of tourism]] [[300-00308/12]] Therefore, we turn to the next point of the order of the day, which is the dotze point, the inquiry to the Government on the situation of tourism, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.54.0	Yes, thank you very much. Well, before I begin to talk about the proposals that I will then become a young man, I would like to put on the table some data that I think are well known – but that never goes by to remind them – about the situation and the situation that the tourism sector has now seen, I have seen that it represents, according to the data giver, some talk about the 12_percent of GDP, others talk about the 11.6... in any case, a very considerable number of figures in Catalonia. We are talking about more than 700,000 people working directly or indirectly in the sector. So the truth is that we are talking about one of the most important sectors of the Catalan economy and of Spain's conjunct, and that we have seen ourselves in a situation – some situation – the months of June, July and August, of a fall of foreign visitors of 69_per_cent, June; 69.7, July, 69.9, August. If we're talking about tourists who are not hikers – who are obviously the ones who leave more resources – we're pushing the one given to 80,6. To put in a more concrete number, the last summer we had 6,900,000 tourists. Enguany, 972,000. Enguany has left 432_million euros, an 84,4_per_cent less than the previous year; 84,4. That is, an absolutely diabolical situation of one of the most important sectors of our economy. And what is this sector, beyond some positive words? The truth is that there has been unprecedented Swiss hostility, I repeat, I insist, in one of the strategic sectors of our economy. It is a popular tourism that has an ideological epithet in the city of Barcelona with a very concrete ideology, but that, unfortunately, in a way that is sometimes more conscious and other unconscious – which would be the word – has ended up moving to the group of rulers that has touched on us thanks, therefore, to have now itself in Catalonia, in Barcelona and in Spain. When he said he had an epithet in Barcelona, it was the whole "Tourists go homme" campaign, the idea that tourism is an aggression against equality, against the environment, against everything. Even with cases of targeting tourists, buses. That's, like, an authentic campaign of disdain from a phone sector. But then we find that in the case of the Government of Spain, during all this crisis... The Vice President of the Government of Spain said: "Whoever does not feel comfortable, do not open. From the Minister of Consumer Affairs: "Tourism is a low-value-added sector that needs to be replaced. Minister Ábalos: "It is an activity to sacrifice. And what happened to us in Catalonia? In Catalonia, to have to hold what we have to hold from the Government of Spain and the Government of Barcelona, which has passed to other joints, it turns out that the message « Spain kills us or « Spain robs us..., I would say that it is not the most likely to attract people from the rest of Spain, that it has always been a phonenal market of Catalan tourism but that enguany, with the current situation, is that it was the market. And it's true that he tried to disguise/ correct it with a correct campaign, which didn't exactly work for anything, because when you're wearing so much time teaching practically hate or less to your potential client, so obviously for a campaign that you're doing this doesn't work out. The truth is that while Catalan companies in the sector, direct or indirect – restaurateurs, hoteliers, loguers of all types, shops – are doing their job, they have found themselves in the worst moment of their history three governments of deep hostility: the Government of Spain, the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Barcelona. In the case of Barcelona in particular – we are talking about one of the most powerful tourist cities in the world – 1,350 bars and restaurants have taken place. The data recently presented by the Barcelona Restoration Gremi are telling. Well, before this scene we plant three sets of measures, which I will summarise in the time I remain, and then a question of attitude that we understand, with a new councillor, with a new councillor, which is important to highlight. First of all, in the political discourse, which is very important when we talk about perceptions and trying to seduce, to fight at once for all this attitude of phobic tourism. That is to say, it cannot be accepted that tourism is against innovation and that it is against added value. Obviously, there are parts of the tourism sector that have less innovation and less added value. But it turns out that our economy, if we think about enology, if we talk about restoration, turns out that we are capdavanters in innovation to the world. Therefore, it is not possible to say in such a frivolous way that the combination of the tourism sector has no added value or does not represent innovation. It will have to be specified and it will have to be much stricter, which, unfortunately, we found to be missing from the three governments to which I referred a while ago. On the other hand, when it comes to subs that cover part of the sector, because there are generalizations that they don't have any sense... obviously, these 700,000 people who work in the sector won't all of a day for another could be high-level scientists, and there's something they need to work on. It is not possible to make this frivolous speech that it is a sector that, with a few gains and a few seasonal months, etc., needs to be replaced. Home, it is obvious that if it is possible to improve these working conditions, therefore, fantastic. But before replacing, which is what some ideologies say in a frivolous way, I insist, they will have to look for these alternatives and consolidate what we already have. The second package of measures has to be seen with tax incentives and reductions. We, in its moment, when you directly pushed the tax on touristic establishments, put the cry to the cell. We ask and continue to maintain the exemption requirement for the years 2020 and 2021. You've been reacting to myths. We consider that both the adjournment and the freezing are clearly insufficient, and it is a demand of the sector. And it is not a question that I can put in question the finances of the Generality, for the « economic mountain of which it is concerned. So, here you have a lot to do. But not only that, but also at the bottom of the IRPF's autonomic tram. The same inheritance tax, which in family sectors such as this ends up having a very high incidence and which in Catalonia is a flattened, well, to the point of having increased in some cases by 1,714 times – I know it's thanks, the number – the economic quantity that some families have had to pay in the concept of inheritance tax. Third package. And I'm glad the advisor to the previous intervention didn't make it, because it's a matter of substance. Catalonia needs to be very active right now in the search for European foundations, because we are talking about projects of sustainability and innovation that, as I said a while ago, is not that they are not incompatible with tourism, it is that they are consubstantial to tourism as they are understood in Catalonia in the last few years, that we are captivating in all these matters. So, well, if I can develop it later on in his intervention... it's from the few things I've felt I have to say, therefore, that I celebrate and, in fact, courteousness does not take away the courage, which is said in these cases. And then I end up with an attitude issue. Look, Mr. Tremosa, I think it's going to be warm now except in government action, beyond the ideology that every one has. And why am I telling you that? I know he won't like this part, but I have to say it. I've known him for many years, haven't I? I was mayor of Tarragona Economic Promotion, and we met Terrassa in a debate. And I looked like a person with his ideas, you would tell my people in many cases, but I looked like an appointed person. I do not know what happened to you in the European Parliament, frankly. Because, of course, now you're looking at the Internet and not just the newspapers of the rest of Spain, it's about the "we of spam, the "king of fake news... It's about you bringing to the European Parliament Pepe's trembling to Messi as an act of identity hardship. It was able to carry an accompaniment from Mauricio Colmenero, of the Aida series, which is a fictional character. He was an acquittal as if he was a Martine the Facha or any of the characters in a comic book, wasn't he? , and he brought it to the European Parliament. Not content with that, you had to be corrected for former Belgian Prime Minister Di Rupo, who came to write, after a puddle of his..., he said: "A Spanish MEP approached me last night. He wanted to take a picture of me. Now he uses it for political purposes. I reaffirm my total opposition to Puigdemont's attitude. What I'm asking is that now that you have very serious government responsibilities, if I can get back to Mr. Tremosa that I met on Terrassa and forget about this later stage a little sketchy, so everyone will appreciate it. Because I think you're afraid so much between your hands right now, and it's not the time for this kind of practice, it's just being deeply rigorous in government action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, for the answer, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Coneixement, the Lord Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.56.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, we had a few minutes here to talk about tourism and I'll talk about tourism. You see, I don't have a vision of tourism, and I wrote it, because many years ago I made articles and books about economy, logistics, economic future, Mediterranean Corridor... Therefore, I... tourism has obvious negative externalities. Tourism generates, in some barrels, gentrification, generates massiveities not desired, it also attracts profiles, let's say, that they are not the best models that we can have, therefore, the tourism of eraser in some cases, and that they are not the best models, but, in change, I think that tourism is a fundamental factor, right? And now, moreover, we have had a stress test, unfortunately, very strong in terms of the great global pandemic that has allowed us to contemplate the situation of non-tourism. In economics, many times, and in social sciences, you make scenes and speculations about what would happen if we didn't have the euro? , how would the crisis of 2010 and 2020 be? Well, then, there's no empirical evidence. We see what happens in Argentina, what happens in Turkey and what happens in Estonia, huh? Mario Draghi, in a debate, said: « Estonia, today, is a more independent country than Turkey and Argentina thanks to the euro and the single currency. That's what he said to the European Parliament, because it gives it a relaxation and a tranquillity, and it can be dedicated to doing digital policies, social policies, and it's not about whether inflation jumps to 25_per_cent, I have to push the types of interest and then this creates a dalta down, right? So, therefore, I think tourism is a tractor sector of the economy. Why? Why does it have an impact on trade, on restoration; it also has an impact on the real estate sector, in part, and when we did not have tourism, especially in Barcelona city, we saw the difference between last year and this year, right? , and, therefore, this, in macroeconomic terms, is important. In addition, of course, tourism has given Barcelona some air connections that were impossible to imagine. Two years ago, Barcelona had, in 2010, 27_million passengers at the Prat airport. The February 2020 there were nearly 54_million passengers, and Barcelona appeared in the top 6 European, having duplicated traffic in two years – the only airport in Europe that did it – and, moreover, it was the third European city in flights between Europe, after Paris and London. In connections between Europe, it was the third city, and this is thanks to tourism. And it's more, after tourism comes the added value: wires and congresses. You talked about cooking and high-quality cuisine. He has also entered behind the flights donated by the tourist. All the lectures that doctors come to our universities from all over the world; the University of Barcelona, where I have been a teacher for 20 years, had two thousand master students from all over the world. Therefore, it is to say, without the air connections that tourism has provided, so Catalonia would not be what it is. Miri, I'm from the high mountain of the Pyrenees. I can give it data because I followed it and studied it. At Pallars Sobirá, the year 2019, 170,000 people took part in rafting. There's seven businesses, hundreds of jobs. The direct impact of rafting is 100_million euros, at Pallars Sobirá. So, I'm a tourist advocate, and I think it's an activity engine. There may be many examples, and in this sense, therefore, I will not be enlarged, because I also have a time, but it is to say, even at the high mountain, at the highest mountain in Catalonia, tourism is a source of opportunity. Today the advisor Puignero visits the Pont de Suert. The Pont de Suert has rejected, in the last few months, hundreds of people who have registered with it, and there are still hundreds of petitions waiting for optical fiber to register. I, who come from the High Pyrenees and who have seen fifty years of depopulation, this dissipation, when I met with the mayors and with entrepreneurs and with social agents and trade unionists, with the directors of Comú Can, I also saw that the eyes were shining in another way, because optical fiber is more important than the road. Because we've seen all those towns and houses and masses and pedans, everything we've seen comes back, can bloom again. Therefore, listen to me, I say this: in the person of this advisor there is a great sensitivity for the tourism sector, for the multiplier effects, which has not only given us, but can give even more in the future, and it is a central factor. You have used expressions such as « tourismfòbia, « apic entre ideològic in Barcelona. I will not say these questions, but I do see that there may have been a disdain for a sector which is of fundamental importance to me, and I therefore recognize that sometimes, quite frivolously, expressions have been said about the automotive sector, or from some other institution, or from other sectors of activity, which have said themselves with great joy, but now we have a situation of brutal crisis, and I think we need to make pinya. And in this sense I very much welcome, for example, that yesterday in this Parliament, by 128 votes, we rejected the message of In Comú We can against the most urgent process of the law of APEUs, and I think it is a very good sign that we give the whole chamber, that at such a complicated time as this is the chance to vote to give the most urgency to an economic promotion law of urban spaces, which, I understand, can be very necessary. And in this sense he will find in this council, so, open ears and will gain to arrive at agreements and to go quickly and to speed up and do things better than we have done them. Clar, now in concrete form: what has the Government of Catalonia done for the tourist crisis? You know that unlike the Basque Country and Navarre, the Generalitat de Catalunya does not collect either IRPF or VAT or special taxes, which are great tax figures, do you not? And that they would give a great deal of room for action. But, well, look, we, in agreement with the government of last Sunday, that it's from those news that you would like to see in the most outstanding newspaper, but that comes a short..., in the agreement of the government of last Tuesday we updated another time the tourist tax. And that's a petition that got us into the sector. The year 2019 the Generalitat entered 73_million for the tourist tax, and the business people came to us..., there was, from the first day I entered this council, the business people of the restoration, of the tourism said: "It is true that they are a money entered the past year and that we are the simple hotels managers of this tax, but it would go very well if you could keep them until 2021. Why? "Because if we have to ask for credit, as we have done now in July, to pay VAT and to pay the IRPF and to pay for companies, as we have to do, because the Spanish State, therefore, has not frozen the llogers, has not frozen activity moratoriums, as many other countries have done, and, therefore... So the Generality has done, and therefore, if all hotels and restaurants are to be raised to 2021 the tourist fee, you can already imagine the entrances that we will make this year. And 70 million, the Generality, stops them from getting involved because they understand that the priority is to save the peppers, that they arrive in the month of April of the year that sees, we hope that, if we don't have the vaccine, badly yet, we do have reliable texts that are quick and cheap enough to fill planes, fill the fires, fill restaurants, normalize many areas of activities that have been touched. I was on the Moto GP award two days ago. Clearly, there was no public, but there were three-thousand people among mechanics, restoration, journalists, in concrete spaces, and we did a pilot test that Oriol Mità now wants to do in the Apollo room, right? , a little... We came all day before, we made a PCR and we kept scrupulously distances, masks, gloves... So we did it this way: we went-there three_thousand people disbanded, we did the PCR, the next day they did the tests..., the Dorna people were delighted, say: "At the worst time of the pandemic year we keep the thread to work, and, listen, the year you see we might already be better than we are now. So, fantasistic. I'm already telling you that as a Business Advisor, to guarantee me this month of October, Formula 1 is essential, because if it's true that the Generality is making a great effort with Formula 1, we have economic reports of different institutions that say that the macroeconomic impact of this celebration of Formula 1's big prize is hundreds of millions of euros, that it has a great benefit in hotel sectors, restorers of vehicular markets, and that the public entrances that generate all this activity grow beyond the Generality's contribution to Formula 1. Therefore, this is a debate that we will soon hold with the Government, but my position as Business Advisor is to try to ensure the continuity of an event that does not only place us on the world map of Formula 1, but that has a great macroeconomic impact on different regions, the band that there are a lot of people following it to Catalonia. Therefore, in this sense, in the measure of our possibilities... You were asking for fiscal measures, so, this measures the fem and not with joy, because you understand that there are many social needs that cost a lot to attend, and that the future participation of taxes, if you seek VAT, the IRPF, will also affect the year coming the Generalitat, but this year we assume the reduction of the tourist tax in favor of continuity and to save the continuity of the pimes at these times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, the honourable Member has the word... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Isn't there a reply? Okay. [[Question to the Government about the difficult situation of insecurity in the streets]] [[300-00306/12]] So the next item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the difficult situation of insecurity in the streets presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. It has the word, for its exposition, the deputy Jean Castel. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Long break.]] Thank you, Congressman. Counselor, yes... okay. The counselor has already come, so we can begin the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.58.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. We are facing a situation of social alarm in the face of the exponential growth of insecurity in Catalonia, as a result of the proliferation of thefts, thefts, robberies, organized crime, illegal occupation and organized gangs, mafias that control our provinces, municipalities and neighborhoods. Look, since 2018, as I warned you in the question the other day, Citizens already warned of this phenomenon of occupation in this Parliament by presenting initiatives in this direction and in turn by presenting in the Congress of Deputies a law of express unemployment to guarantee that, rights of citizens. This past July we again presented different initiatives, both in this Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies, once again to guarantee rights. The occupation is a scourge that affects and aggravates our neighborhoods as a result of the daily suffering of our neighbours, our merchants, where coercion, threats destroy coexistence daily. I know that even those we do and have the opportunity to visit the Catalan provinces, let's go where we go, they tell us the same thing: "We suffer even for our children when they go down the street. In the same way, we asked the prosecution for an instruction and for you to implement it: to provide guarantees to the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra, to provide more tools to the communities of neighbors and owners. I would like to point out that in addition to this problem, what we have been dragging forward for years, which was the lack of troops, which has recently been countered by these new calls that we have been able to see. Please note, you cry and complain about the means and it turns out that, in the face of the inaction of the Government of Spain, we had to denounce you for the fraud of passing the head of escorts from a fugitive by the personal adviser of your predecessor. I mean, with a little payback, that's what I'm talking about. What a shame! We want the Mossos serving the citizens alongside the real problems they suffer every day and not in Waterloo serving an escape from justice. That complaint to the former adviser and the head of the Belgian guard was the first. We will not hesitate to defend the right of security of all Catalans in this chamber, in the Congress of Deputies or before the courts, if necessary, do not hesitate. We came from a time when it was found that the concern for security in Catalonia and for improving the body of Mossos d'Esquadra was far from its intentionality. It is sad to see that we sometimes do more from the opposition than you as the Government of Catalonia. Look, to combat crime our bodies and security forces have to be equipped and equipped with the best, when we talk about clothing, material, endowment, training and treatment. Treatment and dignification of our police force, counselor. Not to mention the management of the DAI or its opacity to deliver documents, which give us verse to have to go to the Bureau of Parliament to apply for amparo. In the end you have given us the reason and I hope that you will not delay passing on to us the reports we ask of you, because some of us seek evidence when trade unions come, come in force and denounce certain cases, and our obligation and institutional responsibility is to seek evidence, but, of course, the evidence that can prove that arbitrariness or occultism of that Internal Affairs Division is denounced to you, if we do not have the information, I also say, we cannot corroborate it. I recognize that it is not an easy task, the task that his predecessors have left him, that is evidence, a serious situation. Fixed, the phrase "of those dusts, these sludges, counselor. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and highlight the effort, work and dedication that our Mossos d'Esquadra have once again demonstrated with their professionalism in the face of the violent in the streets of Catalonia, where last week, unfortunately, we were able to see that the words of the irresponsible and agitating Mr. Torra came back and put again the exalted and extremists in front of our police, assaulting our agents of Mossos d'Esquadra, breaking our streets and destroying urban furniture in our cities, counselor. They had the entire October One of parties and commemorations and had not a moment of lucidity to go out to urge their commands to stop the violence; not a _minute responsible to stop subjecting a cascade of blows and throwing objects, plus those insults added, to our police and to our Mossos d'Esquadra. I know, counselor: what were you doing at the time? Could you explain to us what you were doing at the time they insulted and shot our police? We, I'll tell you, be very concerned. I assure you that what we would do as a democratic government is to leave immediately and warn the violent that all the weight of the law would fall on them. And I assure you that we will never deceive our collectives of Mossos d'Esquadra, Bomberos and others. But, specifically, the Mossos d'Esquadra, when they leave a department with agreements, agreements and negotiations, and you violate them, break them and do not comply with them. We play peaceful, democratic coexistence in Spain and Catalonia. This past week we have also seen many complaints emanating, again, from members of the police, from trade unions, where they once again reported their police actions being restrained and stopped by their commanders, leaving our police assuming the flood of projectiles that were launching them. It seems that you sell them by giving political orders to your commanders and putting the mossos at the feet of the horses. I hope this is not the continuation that your predecessors have already made us live. I see that you laugh, counselor; I would take it seriously, because the institutional responsibility that lies with you is very and very hard, and, as I told you, in a more than complicated situation when we talk about the Interior Council. These violent groups of aggressive behavior and an absolutist, radical, dictatorial, tax and separatist character... Look, in front of our Mossos d'Esquadra..., and you have not seen him leave, the most responsible of the Department of Interior, and not a word of support or paralysis in the face of violence. Citizens expect solutions from the institution and, in the meantime, we see how the mafias distribute our territory in our autonomous community, or even fights for neighborhoods, areas, or even occupied floors; they already fight to see who has that occupied floor, which violates rights of a third party, I remind you, where the famous batteries have recently been added. You know the batteries, which are those cars or vans that are moving and delinquent in their path: traffic and struggle for control of the drug supermarket, arms trafficking, forced prostitution, occupied top blanket warehouses, have turned the occupied floors into warehouses. And you still don't carry out those operations to detect who, how, and where. In the second intervention, I shall have more time to explain to you some details which I believe are of importance. I believe, Counsellor, that we are here to guarantee rights, solve problems and provide solutions. Counselor, you will have the first chance, in the subsequent motion, to be next to the solutions, and some solutions that I understand and hope that, like all Catalans, you will be up to your mark. And I want to finish my speech today by quoting Cervantes, advisor: "Changing the world, friend Sancho, is not madness or utopia, but justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, the word "Interior Counselor", Mr. Miquel Sàmper, has the word "Interior Counselor".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.60.0	Mr President, Members, Members. I, Mr Castel, actually came up with a scheme of a proposal or an explanation to Parliament, to society, as I see security. But you always have this facility to look for the confrontation, to look for the conflict, and it forces me to answer it said... you've already recriminated me that I'm with a company of mine and now you're already making gestures and I don't wear thirty seconds, huh? You started telling a lie, which is that the other day when the squadron mosses, the ARROs, were painted with paintings, I didn't say anything. And she's lying: I made a press note at the moment, saying she was next to her. Therefore, he asks you, with your exercise, to say here what you want, as at least, do not tell lies. You can say what you want from security, how you see it and how you see it Cities. But I ask you, please, to have institutional respect, not to say lie. When I saw the photograph, at the end of a few minutes, I made a press release showing all my support for the Mossos d'Esquadra, in concrete terms, the ARROs, which were abused in this way. That said, I go back to the beginning, what I wanted: to make an explanation of what security is in Catalonia. And I'm starting to tell you one thing: it's not true the description you make, as in all spheres, apocalyptic: everything, absolutely everything is worse than it is. And I say to him: how can it be like this – how can it be like this – if it turns out – if it turns out – that security, with objective data, is better than the year passed, for example? How can it be? Well, I suppose you're looking for electoral land, electoral land, and security must be one. Miri, I'll explain. Security is a variable that is constantly evolving, it is a common good that affects the whole society, but, to hear it, we need to have very clear two things, Mr. Castel, and you will understand it because I know you understand it, of security. You want to make the company believe here that we only have to be on a part of the rights that security embraces – the world of security. I've been saying three things for a while. One that you will surely like very much, that is to say that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, that all the security units of Catalonia have the condition of judicial police. I suppose we agree on that. And then another, double – double –, that you understand half: that security things have to preserve the right to security of people, of all Catalans, the right to physical integrity of all Catalans, and that you understand – until here we go well, eh? – But also, Mr. Castel, the right to protest, the right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of movement, the right to protest. And you know what's going on, Mr. Castel – or Mr. Ciutadans? That these rights that set the limit is neither Ciutadans, nor the PP, nor the CUP, nor the commons, nor Junts per Catalunya, nor the Republican Left ; it is the European Court of Human Rights. Look at you – it's very easy, access – today a feeling that came out yesterday in Strasbourg from which is the limit to where the right to the demonstration is up. Clearly, if when we make a security debate we only look at the part that we like most or fit ourselves, therefore, for our ideology – all respectable – we are cheating on the lonely. And then we give society bad messages, mistakes, that cause discomfort. And so much obligation do you have, those who defend both security and the right to the integrity of people – physical –, as do those who defend the right to protest, to give real messages that do not confuse the citizenry. And that's happening, and I'm watching it in this room, in this little room. We all need to be consistent with these rights, to please one another or to please the other. If we're clear, I'm convinced that among all of you there's a way to get a real message, a built message, and a message that makes security things, Mr. Castel, not always on the table. You said something that seemed interesting to me, like we have to let the security guard do his job. You're right, you're right. But if I'm defending him. It's the whole reason of the world. But, I insist, with the coexistence of these two rights, one that we place on the right-hand side of security – not politics – and one on the left. And that's complicated. Because, of course, when the European Court of Human Rights tells us: "Home, it is that cremating certain prints or images is manifesting this right. Someone's hurting. But that is what the European Court of Human Rights has said. It is what the highest judicial institution has said in the field of human rights and in the field of human rights. And although you do thank him – I see he does thank you – it's a legal, substantial reality, which pleases us more or less – I won't say if I like him more or less, I can imagine it – it's what we have to respect. And, therefore, what are the safety nets to do? Comply with your work, which is as easy as this: preserve that you – you, you – can go to any manifestation and preserve that anyone, with independence from their ideology, can manifest. And, man, what I gave him now a moment ago to cremate certain things three or four years ago was a crime—it was a crime. It is to say, cremate, and we speak clearly, therefore, a print of the king, of the monarchy, was a crime; now it is not so. And why isn't it? So because it turns out that the right is evolving. Sometimes we like its evolution more or less, but it evolves. And with this issue the evolution in Europe, we cannot control it. You see for where, Mr Castel, we go from Europe: we cannot control it, neither the Supreme nor the Constitutional. Because it turns out that, despite what the Supreme and the Constitutional say, then there will be a court with your European who will really tell us how to interpret it. And that's the reality. And this is the debate that needs to be settled here when you talk to me about Catalonia dying of lack of security. And this is also the debate that has to be said here when there are some interpretations of the other band that also bother the faculty of some squad movements, which must be, I insist, judicial police. Look, I told you the first day, because you are a person dedicated to the issue of security, recognizably dedicated. And I said to him: I propose that, taking into account these three elements that I explained to him – we made a coffee together, you and I – we build a security report in Catalonia. Therefore, no one can say that we do not embrace all the forces, all of them, absolutely all of them. You too. All, absolutely all. And I'm saying this with the will of... I'll be here a few months, Mr. Castel, and you know it. The legislature is over, but we have to try to get some people out of this room to perceive that the security of those who do not have to be heard..., I come back, whether it is defending the free exercise of physical integrity and freedom and security of people, such as the demonstration, the vava, the protest. All of it. It would be very easy, really that from the legal perspective, Mr Castel, it is easy. We need to hear it. It's the need we have: to hear this. We cannot be in a crisis situation as we are living in the pandemic... you have forced a very interesting parliamentary debate on the issue that is currently... or on the issue that is currently the real focus of society's interest. But to bring here now, to bring here now a debate of insecurity – and I will answer it in my second intervention – I think it does not touch. I invite you and all the political forces that we generate this real debate about what our security is like, what it is in reality, and they ask everyone to do it. Security, and less at a time like this, isn't playful. The Squadron Mosses do the work they have to do, and they do it, I insist, with the defense and with the intention that this coexistence that I explained to him allows all Catalans to live in harmony. So, I'm going back to ask, I'm going to answer to you from here to eight seconds. We sit down, talk about it and create an interesting and constructive debate. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the answer, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.62.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, sometimes rich because I don't have another one left. I will start with his words: "Today I was coming to explain who is the scene of security in Catalonia. Listen to me, this has to come – and we're still waiting for the Committee on the Interior – to explain to us what your project and plan will be. I'll take the words, a stretcher. An extended hand to build and work together, but work in the sense of coherence. As I said before: returning rights, assuming responsibilities, and, counselor, vague, protest, protest, and so much. Trencar « adoquins, trencar carrers, furniture urbà, mai. It's a big difference, because you tell me that I take what I care about. You've taken the one you're interested in leaving the band that you don't like or bother. Listen'm, the processes leave in their if very leave it. You think... and I don't lie, counselor, never lie, and less from here. I have weekly meetings with unions, with agents. Are you lying to these agents and unions? Because I come here to be the voice of a lot of agents from Mossos d'Esquadra that the Division of Internal Affairs has made life impossible for them, that the Department of Internal Affairs has not found solutions. You, from an interior department, have incompleted pacts that gave us light, out of many rights violated by our agents of Mossos d'Esquadra. And the invitation, the invitation to go out on the road together. Tell me where you want to go, where you want to go, where you want to go, and I assure you that we will find insecurity, occupation and the leave that leaves us behind. Allow me to say, and today I remember the words of Mrs. Tere, of Mataró in one of the last visits I could make: "Hey, tell those who rule, if you don't know, to leave. This is what they should do when they prove to be incompetent to find solutions, useless to honor the Department of the Interior, and I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about the power of those who were before you, because here, broken agreements, pacts where the unions came out saying: "It was time, we saw the light, at the end of a week nobody remembered. Another time a department of interior that violated these pacts. One big hand, let's grab it to work. Do we have three months, four months? Will we have a few months, as you say? It's the same. I say to you that with political will, in a couple of months, before the end of what seems to be the end of this legislature, we can have the great solutions of the Squad Coast and the security of our autonomous community. The Catalan Autonomous Community, like the rest of the communities of this great country, which is Spain, needs coherent, appropriate, responsible and adviser security. Being responsible before their department is what it is that touches, is what the Squad mosses we have out here want, is what the same system, and I'm talking about our citizenry, which is really hurting the chaos of insecurity, is calling for you, for you and for those who have been there before. A whole department of interior that should be putting the ear to our citizenry's complaint, and not come here to throw pilots out, to tell me to lie. Listen to me, too, to prove the untruth, if you will, I propose to meet you when you want and I will bring in the unions and the agents who transfer this to me, with documents and evidence – with documents and evidence. And then you'll have to come here and talk to these opposition deputies, who are doing a great job, and as I said before, over and above what some of this government's advisors are doing. You here have the first responsibility, which is the safety of all Catalans. Take, then, this responsibility, and even if it's for a few months, counselor, bring it to a reality. Here he will keep me in the canto, if not, as I told him the other day, he will keep me in the front demanding and claiming it; but not me, the citizenry of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.64.0	President. Mr. Castel, I've been told that confrontations with you are very interesting, huh? And we can give it faith, that that's how it's gonna be. We'll have a good time. Four months, but we'll have a good time. You have, besides, the two of me working on my intervention..., look, I'm already coming without papers, because we divert attention and go to another land that, in the end, is not to explain what people deserve us to explain to them. But, listen to one thing, there is a series of things that I, in this interval of time that I will be around, would never like to get past. I won't tell lies, but you said I didn't put myself next to the Mosses when I made a press release. Therefore, I repeat, you missed it – I softened it –, you missed the truth. And two, I will never say, as much as I consider that some MP, some of my company, therefore, has made a mistake, that it is useless. And you said it, and, man, that hurts. He was talking about other people, it still makes me worse. Let them say to me useless, listen to me, defend me and it's already, but I told other people. Miri, listen to something, do you know who believes or does not believe the useless? The election results. You have already had an example of the last Spanish elections of which it is useless, which it is to lower – I don't remember – wants a 70 or 80 per cent of its election results. And now we will also see, in the month of fever, so, if you, with this confrontational tactic, are guarantors of this transparency that demand or are politically – politically – useless. But I'll try not to tell anyone. Fixed's that I'm referring to a group, not a person. I won't do it again. Listen to one thing, I told you it would be purpose, and I feel it. I said the other day to certain groups – to everyone, go – that it would create a table with the theme of denunciations. Go out in the press. This table, obviously, will also be open to all political groups, and you can say yours. And there you will also need to know how to justify, for example, how different you are from a criminal occupation or how different you are from a denunciation of vulnerable people. I fixed 'that I put the opportunity to participate in it, that we all participate in it, but that we all work together, too. That is to say, we all have to say that this is vulnerable, and, therefore, we have to make all the institutional entanglement give an answer. You too will be, as will the commons, as will the UPC, as will everyone else and as will all actors, judged, as will all absolutely be. You are diverting the issue of occupations to a land, and in the land that you divert, that are the criminal occupations, we could all agree. I think we could all agree. We could all agree. And that's why there's a prosecutor's instruction, dated September 15th, that even allows the Squad Coast to have the ability to intervene much more directly to get the judge to decide. With what? So with precautionary measures of dislocation. Therefore, the criminal occupations of people who create problems of coexistence, which worry you, if we are able to come here and say: "These are the ones, I think they worry all of us. Listen, I have an obligation to see everyone. I've seen me with the judicial agencies. I saw myself at the heavyweight union. I saw myself with the D.A. I've seen me with the political groups in this room. I've seen myself with the collection, naturally it does, because I need to see it. And we all have to be able to find the point of balance to differentiate the occupation of the people who have a need and who are vulnerable to these occupations that make you come here and say Catalonia is insecure. No, no, You're right when you say there's more criminal activity. It's true. And so much so that the prosecution has made an instruction to expedite the deployment of criminals, but let's just say it, man. Let's say, let's say what's criminal and let's say what's vulnerable. We do not cheat on the lonely and do not come here, I insist, defining this apocalypse, which is in everything, in security, in economy, in the Covid, in teaching, in sports, absolutely in everything. Catalonia, according to you, is currently the worst country in the world. It's still bad. It's not true. Home, that's not true. It's not true. I won't talk about other things that don't suit me, but I'm talking about security. It's not true. Catalonia has more than acceptable standards of security. Better? Yeah. Now I'd be lying if I said no. Wonderful, yes, but I did not describe it in this apocalyptic form. What do they claim? To have another voting market, to have another voting market, now with the issue of security? A few years ago it was the process, now this one? No, man, no. We need to build this because a country's security is one of the most significant and important issues because people can live in harmony. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. The session is suspected up to a quarter of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.66.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the education and planning of the 2020-2021 school year]] [[302-00234/12]] Let's resume the session, and do so with the dissette point of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the emergence of education and the planning of the school year 2020-2021. To defend it has the word Mrs Esther Niubó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.67.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, MPs and MPs, is not yet a_me starting an extraordinary school course, for the extraordinary circumstances in which it is produced. And before the king, I wanted to recognize and thank – and I think I do it on behalf of everyone – the effort they make, day by day, that they have made, direct teams, teachers, obviously, to make it happen that we have the open schools today and that the course is working, perhaps not with the normality that we would want, but with the maximum normality possible. And that, despite the lack of resources and sufficient professionals, despite the lack of space, despite not having all the protection material that would be warm, despite the lack of clear instructions, despite the fact that it is not up to them, they have made it possible to do what was necessary. And in many cases, what was essential to guarantee the right to the education of the student's conjunction. And we want to put it in value. We want to value the responsibility of teachers, but also the responsibility of families, children and children to complete health protocols and recommendations. And I think we can say that the conjunction of the educational community has been on the rise. But, if today's education system is sustained, it is thanks, above all, to over-work, over-burdening of professionals, and not so much for the extraordinary resources provided by the Education Department. And this young man came from this, he claimed back to what we think is and will be needed. Cal, first of all, increase the number of teachers to get those 20- and 30-year-olds asking for the same department, right? , to complement the recommendations of the Procicate. We have today classes of ESO and post-compulsory secondary with more than thirty students in the classroom, classes to blow up. This is irresponsible. There is no production, nor are there any substitutions and daily names, as they were said to be produced. When it is known that the centres have made authentic balances with the masters, who have put specialists to act as guardians and that, at the moment when one is down, if it is not replaced immediately, it will not be possible to guarantee the bubble effect. We already have a lot of problems. In high school, no appointments or appointments are being made. We are a few weeks away from the beginning of the course, and we do not have teachers to replace Barcelona's comarques. This very same week, a desperate director makes a cry to find teachers. And we are afraid that the measures that would be needed from the department to ensure the replacement staff bag needed to guarantee the teaching plants are not being taken. And, therefore, what we hope is that the Government of the Generality will take decisions already and put on the table urgently. On the other hand, there is a lack of protective material. In many cases, this material is expensive for families, such as hydroalcoholic gel. The masks, they go to the resources of the same masters, who are paid. And no special masking equipment has been provided for vulnerable pupils or for centres of maximum complexity. And, in this line, we are seeing an important increase in the inequalities between centers, depending on the AMPAs. And this seems to us to be contrary to the measures of the anti-segregation pact, when this is one of the phenomena that we should be most concerned about as the country that aspires to equality. And we have gatherings that are taking on a very important increase in spending, with clean contracts to disinfect educational centres, that are far beyond their skills to contribute to this safe return, with civic agents, with local police reinforcements to agile the entrances and exits, which have yielded municipal spaces. And, therefore, we understand that the resources that the State Government has brought to the autonomous communities to face this educational emergence..., also have a transfer to the joints. And we still don't know the king of the announced digital plan. When the actions announced will be completed, it will be easier for all the students required from secondary, but also primary, to have a computer with connectivity so that they can continue their learning process in periods of quarantine or isolation. Should we wait for the second quarter? Do we have to wait for a new government that you're doing? We're surprised that, six months after the lockdown, we're still the same. And neither have we solved the issue of the food man, the guarantee of food sufficiency with that student who has food help. Do they really think it's a good thing that the families in quarantine stick to the schools, that they're safe spaces, picking up the beds? Don't you think they're helping or contributing to the risk of contagion? Why not continue with other formulas, how could the money tags be? And finally, the current situation, we understand that it cannot be a pretext to take steps back into inclusive school, to remove children with specific educational needs from their usual groups, to retail support professionals. We ask them, as always, for special attention to the students with special educational needs. And, ultimately, the motion of our group insists, or wants to insist, on what is essential, what is missing now, in this extraordinary context of educational emergence, what cannot wait for a proper government, but what is decided today, if they want to be able to finish this course with guarantees. And, therefore, they demand the recollection of our young man and, above all, that if completion is approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.68.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word, now, the deputy Martin Eusebio Barra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.69.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors. The Socialist Group tabled its motion on education and planning for the 2020-2021 school year, following the inquiry presented, such as those presented by other groups on 9 September. And throughout this month, how much has the Government been interested in knowing the opposition's proposals? Nothing. Zero. We have had full, yes, yes..., Mr. Torra's Comfort Plenary was prepared in twenty-four hours. For your jars, total urgency. But to debate with the opposition about education or health, until they have no choice but to do so. And having started the course, you can evaluate your management, counselor. And the result is suspenseful. Let's review the test. In response to Mrs Niubó, but which I also collect, since I also criticized her from this very attril her constant changes in criteria, contradictions and lack of clear instructions, you made the excuse that, as the situation of the Covid is changing, we have been adapting. Wrong answer, suspended, counselor. Your criteria changes are not adaptations. They're a lack of rigor or something worse. In this same atril, you guaranteed that you would make daily replacements. And now, when this motion calls for daily replacements, your parliamentary group is tabling an amendment to increase the frequency of replacements. When you secured it, you hadn't started school yet. And today we have 1,505 teachers, 83 more than yesterday; 28,361 students, 2008 more than yesterday, and 241 external staff, 12 less than yesterday, a Bressol school in Hospitalet and 1,241 confined groups, 76 more than yesterday. With these figures, in just three weeks of course and with the Covid growing to forced marches in Catalonia, what can we find, at the end of the quarter, counselor? Mention has already been made, I too receive messages. I read only two, that of this director of a public school, who, in addition, the press has also picked him up: "I need teachers. In Barcelona we have remained without teachers to replace the public school and we have the opportunity to capture teachers for my school. From a public institute: "In my department, we give formatary cycles of the computer family, we lack five teachers. If anyone's interested, let me know so they can interview him for a while. This is the reality, counselor. Suspended. When a student is positive, do PCRs make their tutors, or tell them to go to the CAP, see if they're lucky, open and they can take care of them? Suspended, Counselor. Do teachers have transparent masks for the students who need them? No, no, Suspended, Counselor. Are there any sanitary equipment? Suspended, Counsellor and Health Adviser. Presuming agreements with the municipalities, for the control of entrances and exits. Reality, we see it every day, at the gates. Suspended, Counselor. Have you covered the needs of the computer equipment and connections of the students who need it? Suspended. He said that computer training and high participation of teachers had been conducted. Yeah, right. But at the last minute. And the necessary materials still do not reach the centers, so the sectors already traditionally neglected remain unattended. Suspended, Counselor. The weight of the beginning of the course has been transferred to the management teams – it has been commented – that, with a very high level of commitment and the best of good will, they are alleviating in what can be the deficiencies of the department, but without the support of the department. Holder of Digital Birth, not Ciutadans : « Masters and clear indications: the requests of the schools that Education has not met. Suspended, Counselor. You assumed, in committee, on 2 July, that an additional budget item was already available and that you could already start spending it. Time and extra money? Suspended, Counselor. We could review more points: the houses of colonies and lleure centers with the water around the neck, the nurseries waiting... Look, from Citizens we are going to vote in favour of all the points of this motion and I thank Congresswoman Niubó for having accepted the amendment we presented to you, which recalled the importance of special education schools. This course is especially complicated, we know. But if your continued evaluation, at this time of the course, deserves a suspension, accept tutorials. Accept help. We offered it to him in June, we offered it to him again. Correct it now, counselor. The education system in Catalonia, the students, the teachers, the families, do not deserve the suspension, the insufficient that you are winning at heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.70.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of the MP Mònica Palacín. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.71.0	Thank you, President. Good late, counselor; good late, deputies and deputies. First of all, our intervention must go, as it cannot be in any other way, to the acknowledgment of the educational community. One course – we are almost one month old – of open classrooms, open schools and secure schools, schools that are doing their job, which is to accompany our infants, adolescents and young people in their personal development. This return to school, as we say, is not exempt – and that has been said many times – from risk zero. Therefore, as apart from society, where they are found in the classrooms and in the new people, it is obvious that there is also a risk of infection. But these data and the data that have been donated – and I want to make reference to the contributions on the press wheel for, among others, the Secretary General of Education –, and that after the application of the Tracecovid updated the information by territory, by municipalities and by educational center, giving us an image or an X-ray of how this beginning feels. I can donate dice, huh? We can say that of the six total confined centres, so today only one remains. We can say that the confined groups are balancing because they are now decontaining more than they are. Which properly – the week you see – will delimit nine hundred groups of stable coexistence, etcetera. These data and what we have seen, which is that there is no evidence of intracentre propagation, so that there have been no cases provoked within the centre, but they come from outside..., neither is there an intragroup transmission and, therefore, this is very important. These data reinforce the idea that school is safe. And, besides, they also reinforce the idea of the debate on the elections, where we cannot vote in favour of both PSC and Ciutadans points on the elections. It must be borne in mind that within these groups confined during these weeks there were no groups of thirty groups and groups of eight. Therefore, the range is quite a different number of students in these confined groups, which gives, in this case, the certainty that the measures in the centres, the measures of security, are important and are not precisely a reason to create alarm. I think that at this point what we need from some parliamentary groups is to continue to create alarm as it did on September 13 before starting the elections. Respect the exams. The points of the PSC's motion, motion or perhaps electoral diptic, let's say, because in the end it's what we've been told continuously. It's what they think despite the fact that we have approved motions and that the Department has made every effort to complete these motions, these points that we have approved, you still don't have enough. They didn't accept anything – they didn't accept anything. His is a political vote on this motion or on our proposed agenda. It's a political denial of our reviews. Therefore, let me say to you: the Socialist Party has no interest in the proper functioning of the education system, but what they have done – and let me say it – is from the minute or confinement of the schools, on March 12 or March 13, you have taken this for political reason. They saw an exclusive to overcome the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group and directly pressed it for the right. It means that we have reached agreements with Citizens and the CUP on the respective motions, because in this case we have understood that we did want to look for the proper functioning of the school and putting the infants and young people in the center. You don't want to listen. They haven't made it to meetings with the councilman, who hasn't made a lot of – this very late in the day we have another one –, the appearances... And we see... with a detail, huh? They are very concerned about the subject of masks and distribution. I don't want to think about what I've said if the mayor who's dedicated himself to sharing in the non-approved transparent mask education centers didn't follow his political party. I don't want to think about how he reacts. So, finally, I refer back to the data from the beginning of the course, which is the most important to accompany infants and young people. And thanks again, always, to the whole educational community and to the responsibility of families. Until now, the PSC had not pursued education policy. And sort electorally – just now – at the time of the pandemic crisis, honestly, I think it's a mistake. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.72.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Xavier Quinquilla has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.73.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. The motion presented to us by the Socialist Party is a motion that has as its central objective to ensure school re-opening, to guarantee face-to-face. That's the great goal we've set for all of us. And it's an object that, despite the many unthankful things that you have mentioned – some we can share more, others less – is a reality that has been consolidated. And it wasn't only possible to consolidate, but it was possible to consolidate with some sure schools. Yesterday, a study was released that said that the school environment showed twice as much risk of contagion as the same choices. Therefore, we have open and secure schools. I would like, from your young man, to make a reading of it not only in a conjunctural claus, but also in a structural claus, because I think we should also be able to lay our gaze wide. The education system has three great pots, with a _fourth conjunctural door– which is the pot of the health crisis–, but three great pots that are equity, educational quality and sustainability. And I'd like to fix in this fourth pot some of the proposals that you propose: to ensure the effective deployment of the inclusive school decree, the impulse of zero education at three years, to provide resources for gatherings to deal with ordinary expenses... And I'd like to use the word that we're doing a lot, which is the word "responsibility," which means that everyone has to take on their own responsibility. We as members of the government assume it fully, but I would like you to also assume yours. And to take on your – and you here have a lot more responsibility than we do – just to reverse the endemic financing, the result of the tax deficit; to guarantee extraordinary resources to join, effectively, to all, to whom they have Romanesque and to whom they do not have, or to give employment coverage to families in order to be able to take care of children in quarantine, which is now the problem that concerns the whole educational community most. But, going back to economic measures with a structural vision, I think we should, all folds, make an effort to turn this crisis into an opportunity for transformation and better education. Equity and educational quality, I insist, they're two pillars, they're two pots, they're the caretakers of the same coin. It is necessary to age for the most vulnerable students, to provide more resources for the centres of major complexity, but also the approach to the crisis has accelerated processes of organizational improvement and pedagogical innovation. For example, competitive work, the impulse of digitalization or – and I would like to put the focus here – managed it, managed it from the proximity and autonomy of center management. And here it has been seen, we have found that in the process of re-opening centres here, precisely, there has been a central element, determining, among other things..., and here I also want to take advantage of to make an explicit recognition to the whole educational community, but in a very clear way to the teacher collection, the direct teams, which have left the skin, literally, and are leaving it because this school opening holds the success, with all the difficulties that they are having, moreover, around a very high social pressure, understandable, but which has demonstrated the very high professionalism of our teachers. And to advance in this process of transformation and improvement of the educational system, without any doubt, a key element, precisely, is also to advance in the autonomy of management of centres. In fact, we are at the forefront of European countries in more advanced educational systems. We are at which, precisely, in the autonomy of the management of centres. We also have, in this whole context of crisis, an opportunity to strengthen the education service of Catalonia, and that really becomes a genuine network of initiatives and shared knowledge. The approach and solutions in the current context, I insist, we must combine short and long lights; we must be able to convert these measures and the approach of the crisis into an opportunity for transformation and improvement of our educational system. And I insist: from co-responsibility. You have the key to reversing the endemic problem of system joint infra-financing. You also have the key to give a real and satisfying solution to families who have to take care of their infants at home in quarantine. And all this from the dialog and agreement, which, indeed, in the case of this young man, therefore, shined for his absence. I am sorry, however, at any rate, I insist that we build complicity and preserve great political consensus as well as between the educational community through administrative and ideological barriers. We have our hands turn this crisis into a real and authentic opportunity to transform and improve our education system. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.74.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.75.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, we have this late three motions of different groups of opposition about the approach of the present school year in a scene that we all recognize of educational emergence. Already the advances that our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the vast majority of points proposed in all three motions. Obviously, there are many points in all of them, points that we share more, points that we share less, but I would like to highlight the fact that between the three motions there is a huge coincidence of points in common, points that we also share and that they reflect, in fact, what we have already announced at the beginning of the course, that it is a whole series of shortcomings and deficiencies of how this course was approached, both from a health point of view and, above all, from a pedagogical point of view. This coincidence in the proposals that are presented today to the different motions we believe that we should have the advice reflected. Well, more than making her think, I should make her react, because you have all the opposition asking for the same. In any case, there is a lot of material to talk about, but before I enter into the content of the different motions, since we will have, therefore, three interventions to do so, I would like to devote this first intervention to deepening a little by establishing the statement that we have approved and that we have read this morning in your Parliament on a day like today, the Day of Dislexia, which I believe is not completely disconnected from the debate that we are dealing with today. Dyslexia is not a deficiency, it's a trait characteristic of some people that determines the mechanisms through which they learn. A dyslexic person thinks and reasons in an unconventional way, and precisely because of this he develops very well in creative surroundings. A dyslexic person can have much more ability to think outside the standards, to think outside the box and, therefore, to be innovative. And I wonder if that's not exactly what our society needs today. The dyslexia affects approximately 10_per_cent of the population. This means that between the class groups of our students, therefore, each group will have two or three children with dyslexia, and that between the 135 deputies who set up this hemisphere, therefore, there will not be thirteen or fourteen children who are dyslexic, surely some of them do not even know it. A discletic infant is neither better nor worse, but simply different. But, of course, like all infants, he can only learn if the school offers him the mechanisms to do so. And this is where we fail. Dyslexia is not compatible with our educational system. Since long ago the majority of apprenticeships are realized through the code written. The child has to put so much effort into the literacy tasks that he tends to lose concentration and entertain's, making it enormously condition his whole teaching-learning process. Let me talk to you about a concrete case, a first-class student of ESO who throughout the course was suspensing exams of natural sciences with very low notes. The entire course was developed with the traditional methodology, with master classes, with a textbook to study contents and, in the end, with memoristic exams to evaluate them. But the end of the course came and the teacher commissioned the students a project, a job on some animal, which they wanted. The subject was of interest to the student in question, who began to do the work and drew a new one. Clearly, when the same student, throughout the course, takes two and three and then turns out that with another method, with another way of doing, takes a new one, it is not that the problem was of the student, it is not that there was a miracle, but that the problem was not of the student, it was not of the student, it was certainly the method, it was the system. And it's that the teaching method and the assessment method are key to ensuring the teaching-learning process in students with dyslexia. And here is a concept that is essential, and that so defends the psychologist and educator Jaume Funes, that is the customization of education. And the point that we have in front of us is to make it clear that the problem doesn't have the child, when it's often the label of mandarins or destabilized. The problem is that our education system is not capable enough to adapt to this reality and is therefore not sufficiently inclusive. The personalization of the education of which Jaume Funes spoke and the inclusiveness of the education system believe that they are two fundamental elements at the time of facing the educational emergence, and to plan this course and those that will come. The use of digital tools can be an opportunity, a sense of doubt, but above all what resources are, more resources to deal with this diversity. Well, excuse me, Congresswoman Niubó, for diverting a sic from the contents of your motion, but I needed to express these reflections. I'm sure you'll understand. And in any case, as I have already said, we will vote in favour of all the points of his proposal, which we thank him for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.76.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.77.0	Thank you, President. Well, we, in the question that we made at the time and which is at the basis of the motion that we are also debating and voting on today, have already spoken of this educational emergence as an opportunity and as a challenge, not to introduce measures of survival to the current model of education, but to take advantage of the opportunity and opportunity to transform the educational model of this country, to put it to the height of the needs that it already had and to the new, enormous, which generates this health, economic and social crisis in which we are immersed and immersed. Well, we have presented a motion of natural transformation of the model and the system, coherently with our already expressed views, and now we have to vote on motions presented for the Socialist Party and for Ciutadans, which are motions that go in the line of introducing elements of survival, pal·liatius elements, elements of reform or, in some cases, actually better in the system to act. Well, in the case of the Socialist Party's motion, we will vote in favour of most of its points, not all because, even though they do not coincide with our views on what makes this necessary model change, yes, in itself, it respects the current model, they represent some better or better progress that, in a crisis situation like we are, we can also appreciate. We will abstain in others because they clearly have the difference in model we support, or because they are proposals of better which seem to us to be absolutely insufficient. What we do also is to take advantage of the advent to claim the government of PSC, PSOE and We can the urgency and need to address the problem of work-family-school reconciliation. This is fundamental, it requires an interdepartmental policy of the Generality, but it requires measures that at these times depend on the State. We still don't have enough sovereignty to make it out of here, so good, but this reconciliation that allows families to gather their students home who stay out of school because of the pandemic doesn't lose any of their labour and economic rights. We will talk about it in our young man, but it seems to us that, as long as we are ahead of a SCP young man, we also have to replace this political group to address this issue from the responsibilities it currently has in the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.78.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now back to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr. Daniel Serrano has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.79.0	Thank you, President. From the seat, to announce that we will fully support the motion, a motion that mainly captures the demands of the educational system in the current context of health crisis as a result of the Covid-19. And, in this context, it is essential to lower ratios, it is essential to increase the number of teachers, even more than what is announced, because they must be able to guarantee the substitutions; they must be equipped with safety equipment in the fight against the Covid; they must be able to better train the teacher responsible in each educational centre where they can emerge positive, so that they can face the situation with guarantees and security; they must also be helped by the municipalities with sufficient resources to cover the extraordinary expenses arising from the fight against the Covid-19 within the educational sphere, and, ultimately, the relation of needs resulting from this health crisis would be almost infinite in the current context. But what it would be about is to put in the education system, throughout the education system, the resources needed basically so that – and I say basically – at least the concerns of teachers, parents, mothers and pupils do not increase throughout the course, which is precisely what has been happening since this school year began. Therefore, as the motion goes in that direction, we will fully support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.80.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, it's a turn to position itself on the exams, for Mrs Esther Niubó's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.81.0	Well, thanks to most groups for their support. I have to say that in a few points of this debate I have passed shame, in this debate that some have wanted to turn into an election. I must say that precisely in order to improve the functioning of the education system, we present this young man. Precisely to improve the system of the functioning of the education system, we will make a political vote, the same one we did months ago, years ago defending the inclusive school, the 0-3 educational stage and all the other elements that want to improve the fairness of the system. You've exhausted your credibility. I will repeat an example of these ideas that they propose to us: they now propose that those educational centres at which you four days ago allowed you to give up the six-hour period in your own course. That is to say, after June we agreed and decided to restart the six-hour recovery at public educational centres, you one week later do all the opposite. Listen, we don't have to believe them. His word's no longer for us. And so, that's why we won't accept any of the papers you've submitted. On the other hand, we will accept the only question that Ciutadans has presented, which refers to ensuring the maintenance of special education centres, because we are convinced that, beyond the necessary reinforcement of the inclusive school, therefore, it is perfectly compatible with the maintenance of these centres, which make an educational and social task essential for the conjunction of the alumni. And finally, to say that the situation of schools and institutes is not merely the result of the pandemic, it is the result of many years of bad governance, of years of infra-financing, of unreversed detail, of not prioritizing a structure of State such as education, this yes, of equality, of progress, of cohesion. And so we understand that we can't waste any more time, that Catalonia needs a change and that education can't wait either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.82.0	Thank you. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year]] [[302-00237/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the split, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word deputy lady Sonia Sierra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.83.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Before we begin, if I may, Mr President, a preview: today is a good day because the European Parliament has given us the right to all those who believe in the rule of law and all those who do not want politicians to be above citizens and have privileges that do not have citizens. So congratulations to all the Democrats. [[Some applause.]] And now, focusing on the motion, schools were closed in mid-March, initially for fifteen days, but the reality is that they were no longer opened normally. Many students and teachers left their belongings there without knowing that it would take many weeks to recover them. At that time it was impossible to know what was going to happen, because we had never met anything less like it. The teachers, the students and also the families made an immeasurable effort to save the course, and – I have done it on other occasions, I do it again today – I want to express my deepest thanks, because education is undoubtedly one of the pillars of this society and for the students to lose a year means a lot. But, well, beyond the good words, it is essential that teachers, teachers, our students are protected in the classrooms. And that is why we ask that teachers have the right PPE and that rapid tests or PCRs be carried out. And we also ask that this be extended to non-teaching staff. And in order for the faculty to be able to work quietly, we ask that the Department of Education be legally responsible for possible complaints. On the other hand, the need for nursing staff in schools has already been discussed and voted on more than one occasion in this Parliament. If that was necessary before, because now, in a pandemic situation, it is absolutely essential. It is also essential to increase the budgetary allocations for clean-up in order to ensure that the centres are in adequate condition without undermining the working conditions of the cleaning staff. And, of course, it has to be demanded that under no circumstances are the ratios exceeded, as is happening right now. In the current pandemic situation it is essential to be able to guarantee safety distances and that is not possible with ratios that already exceed what would be usual even in non-pandemic times. Besides, low ratios are always synonymous with better quality in education. And with regard to pedagogical criteria, we also ask for clarification of the fundamental contents to be recovered from the past course and also of the contents to be prioritized in the event of a new confinement. And to ensure that all pupils receive education on equal terms in the event of a new confinement, we must ensure that everyone has access to a device and the internet, something in which the Generalitat, the Department of Education, is late and wrong, and it is not because we do not keep it to ourselves, because we are saying it since March. Unlike our councillor at the Andalusian Junta who did buy devices during the previous confinement, it was not done here; it was not then and if there is now a new confinement, then neither will there be. Because, in addition, the counselor says that the market is saturated. Man, if they had bought them when we told them, the market was not saturated, because they could buy them from the Andalusian Junta. And on the other hand, from Salut we are repeated over and over again that we must minimize contacts. For, precisely to minimize contacts, what we ask is that in the case of twin brothers or twins if they are in the same course go to the same class; a claim that many families have been making for a long time and that is already being applied in Madrid. It is also very important to ensure that all families fully understand the information about the Covid-19. That is why we ask that all this information be at least in the three official languages, something that would always have to be by law, but that, well, they don't. This time we ask you to at least be able to prioritize health ahead of your ideology. On the other hand, since it is also important to ensure equal opportunities and opaque masks prevent deaf pupils from reading lips, we ask for transparent masks in all schools with deaf pupils, but also in schools with pupils with autistic spectrum disorder, because they are also very necessary for them. This health crisis is also leading to an economic crisis and we therefore call for the rescue of day care centres so that educational models do not continue to be lost, so that projects close to families do not continue to be lost so that they can leave their children in confidence. And unfortunately, although we have been warning for a long time, this course has closed day care centers. Finally, I want to say that with this motion we have come to many points of agreement and we hope that it will continue, because I believe that the most important thing right now is to prioritize our students and our teachers. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.84.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.85.0	Well, good thing it's late again. Now we are debating a motion that inevitably, therefore, has many points in common with the previous one, with which we will deal further and which puts emphasis on many needs to unravel this beginning of the course. To begin with, the need to equip the professional nursing centres to manage all the functions that today most of the addresses are assuming, directions that should be pedagogical referents and that in the present day devote most of their time to managing Covid's cases. Second of all, everyone is aware of the lack of teachers in the centers. Before we say so, if we were to sell the film of the thousands and thousands of teachers in order to achieve the recommended rates, "we will contract as many teachers as necessary – President Torra has come to speak of God – and we are far from this reality. We have a lot of centers, like I said before, with classrooms with more than twenty, with more than thirty. And you lied to him, too. Yesterday Workers' Committees made a very clear complaint: of the dozen finally announced for the department in July, these great announcements to what we are accustomed to and which are normally not complete, are almost a thousand missing. And really, we're getting a lot more facts and less words. We know, moreover, that teachers and teachers are painting an important pressure: that if you have downloaded it it is very difficult for the center to cover these downloads without breaking the bubble effect, and we think that you should put it again before the course ends. So just as Mr. Aragones announced today more resources for sanitation, it's important that we don't forget about education, we don't have the situation solved much less, because the overload of the teachers can't sustain the education system forever. And, therefore, do not wait for it to be too late, because the system already educates the bone. Also, as I said before, for what it does to the digital bretxa, we are as we were before the confinement: almost seven months later the computers did not arrive with connectivity promised from the third of ESO, neither between the vulnerable student of the previous courses and, therefore, at the time there are quarantines or aids, as there are there, so we do not guarantee the right to education. It is really difficult for us to understand that in so many months we have not been able to approve the procedures necessary to provide this equipment, when other autonomous communities have had it for a long time. For another band, and before he talked about it, it was missing that the Department of Education did not transfer, as I said, together a fund with resources to deal with these costs arising from the situation of educational emergency to contribute to a safe return, to the cleanness and disinfection of the centers, that more than the assemblies are not only taking on clean services at many schools, also at institutes, and often, therefore, has assumed an increase in assumptions almost impossible. And, therefore, we consider it very important to address this need. Another question that appears in this proposal, such as ensuring the administration of masks for all teaching staff, so we obviously agree, because as I said before, there are many teachers who are paying for their buttocks. And, above all, we value very positively the proposal that guarantees these transparent masks approved to deaf students and children with a driver's spectrum. And we also think that it must be done very quickly, because there are student group centers with deafness that today they have not yet been rejected, and these children and children cannot read the keys, they cannot communicate, and this can have important effects on their development. And another question that he might not have mentioned before: the lack of clear instructions from the department to the centres on the curriculum. We do not understand that at a time like this the Directorate-General for Curriculum and Personalization has not worked in a document to highlight who the key competences are to meet at each level, and that all this is left to the criteria of the educational and teacher centres because, as we say, therefore, it can generate difficulties, inequalities between centres that we do not share, and therefore we want to insist on the need for accurate recommendations from the department regarding the curriculum and the more appropriate pedagogical focus in this course, and above all guidance for the quarantine periods and educational resources needed to address these moments. On the other hand, we would like to thank Ciutadans, above all, for having been able to deal with the item he had presented, relating to the first point and, therefore, we feel comfortable in the current wording and it seems important to us that we can continue to have the cribrages, above all priorities, in the educational community to make them. And finally, so, we're in favour of keeping the rescue plan for children's homes throughout the course, taking into account that there are many difficulties going on and more are making and doing a very important public service. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of the assembly of the young man and we will just abstain from point 2 and point 10 regarding the possibility that the Germans will drink from the same course with more than one Vaginal group in the same class to minimize the risk. Because, frankly, we think that we lack pedagogical criteria to be able to position it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.86.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word MP Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.87.0	Many thanks, to the staff of the chamber. Thank you, President. Excuse me. Well, before that, to the previous intervention, as the three motions of this late we have been able to reach agreements with ideologically long parliamentary groups, but in any case, both my partner Jordi Albert and myself, and this is the case with the motion of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. Certainly, we do not agree with everything, but in Parliament what concerns us as parliamentary groups is to ask the Government to give priority to policies that facilitate the lives of all people. And here I'm allowed to give a parenthesis respect for something that can be donated here in your parliamentary office on these two days. Today, in this case, they are supporting the Ciutadans Group, despite the fact that it is the previous Socialist Party movement, they will, among other things, be supporting a proposal of the Six-Hour that defends Mrs Niubó. But, for another band, tomorrow the PRs with the motto of the monogram of salvation, so the Ciutadan party presents the proposal of the continuous day and, therefore, I believe that one of the things where we don't fall, we don't have to fall, are situations, say, that is to say, that they confront each other: the continuous day is not compatible with the six hour. But, in any case, closing this parenthesis, a thank-you to Congresswoman Sierra for agreeing at most points, especially at these times of emergence, at these times when we have to talk about the situation and we have to rethink. It's true that during the legislature we've had a lot of disagreements, which have not disappeared, I'm sure. There are and will always be, but I think I should also put in value the agreements that students have and the importance of working for them and them at the center of the debate. We certainly want to keep the safety of the schools, these open and secure schools, always loving the health situation, pending the data, which are not reassuring, and the risk from which the educational community is not exempt. Therefore, we very much appreciate the transaction, in this case, therefore, with four parliamentary groups, to carry out these rapid tests or PCRs to the faculty, to the educational staff and to the administration staff and you serve, with universal character, where I recommend the epidemiological criteria, as well as to continue the strategy of cracks to the educational community, which we believe is very important and is giving, can give, much information. We have also reached agreements in line with the competition curriculum, certainly the progressive work, the evaluation criteria, so as to follow where we left it in the confinement and in the cases that came from possible confinements. And, therefore, telematic work for students. We also understand the position of the use and distribution of masks or facial pants, and also one important thing, which is to update the protocol in those cases of students who, by reason of health reasons, cannot have a hard mask. There are other points where, although they have not accepted our papers, despite this, we have voted in favour or abstained, because in any case we understand that a hundred papers were looking for a better or a morning of the same point, so... we understand that we would not oppose it once we saw the work or the intention or the will of the department. Where we can't agree is at these three points, where we will vote against it. They think it's three key themes. One is the theme of the letter to the addresses, for legal support. We understand that trust between families and teaching centers and teaching teams is fundamental. We can't get into a place where there's no debate now, the judicialization of the schools, not put the focus on what can be reported when the teachers are really making a lot of effort, and the families have all the confidence in them, and we think it's not a time to do this, they understand that the teachers, the teachers, they already know they're protected by the department in case of problems. As far as the countries concerned are concerned, I think I have said this before, that is to say, the argument of the countries respects what makes us more like society, which was the topic of contagious diseases, there are confined groups of thirty pupils, groups of eight. Therefore, what is most important beyond the routes are the measures of security in the classrooms, in the schools. And last the kisses. I'm just doing a reflection. Who unjustly kissed a brother to get him out of his group to take him with another group when we wouldn't do this if the Germans were third and fifth. Therefore, these criteria we believe...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.88.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.89.0	...that's not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.90.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, I would like to take a turn for the deputy Imma Gallardo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.91.0	Thank you, President. Bones afternoons, councillor, deputies and deputies, parliamentary staff. Today we find ourselves with this motion on the beginning of the 20-21 school year proposed by the Ciutadans Group. In fact, we are debating three, this very late, on this subject, and this already gives some information as to how concerned this beginning of the school year in Catalonia. In a few days he will do all just one that we have started classes, and that is why I think it is necessary that we remember once more that it is a course start marked for a world pandemic, because it only needs to see how the difficulties do not affect us only at home, but that the struggle against Covid-19 is at the level of the whole world, because it was worrying and still worrying about how this school course will develop. And when you get here, I'd like to take a look at the great work done by the government with the very honorable President Quim Torra in front of the Generality, and from this rostrum I take advantage of it to denounce his unjust disqualification to give support to freedom of expression. We find his leadership lacking, his humanity and great wisdom, but his courage too at the time of making decisions, sometimes very complicated, but in time it was seen to be uncertain. There has been a great effort to coordinate all departments, but above all between Health and Education, and despite the difficulties there is a response. But above all it is necessary to make a grace and a merit recognition to all the teaching staff and all the staff of the educational centers for the magnificent task they make in conditions far more complex than in any other beginnings of course. To the direct teams and also to the families for trust and responsibility, but above all to the infants and young ones who are already incorporating the mask and clean hands with the hydrogel to their routine. The experts are verbalizing this: the school centres are not composing themselves as coronavirus amplifiers, they are not composing themselves as a community transmission focus. We've already seen these couple's summer months, and despite the name of confined classes, the value of the course's beginning is for the time being positive strength. And when you get here, I also think you need to make a recognition of the predisposition and complicity that from the zero minute you've seen the gatherings. It was well explained by the deputy and mayor Lluís Guinó in this same rostrum, the Tuesday, in the monogram of salvation. The joints provided computers and materials, hot internet connections, and also made provision for premises if needed. Co-ordination and complicity between different administrations is essential, but above all with those who are better suited to the citizen and the citizen. And, while there were some initial episodes of uncoordinatedness, it went much better in this aspect. Already the advances that we will vote for most of the points. We have accepted the elements of which we have presented jointly with the Republican Group, and it has come to two transactions, one together with the Socialist Group, and here I want to thank the predisposition of Congresswoman Sierra and Congresswoman Niubó, and the good work of Congresswoman Palacín to coordinate it. We agree that it is necessary to guarantee personal protective equipment for teaching staff and to assist in special education centres in which physical contact is required, or the use of transparent mascara approved in centres with deaf pupils or pupils with autistic disorders, or in which the rescue plan for private children is to be carried out – before the previous Members – to compensate for these losses caused by the compulsory closure of the centres during the state of alarm, to give some examples. We will vote against, however, some points, such as point 2, because we already believe that the Government of Catalonia, in this case the Department of Education, already assumes the legal defence of its staff for actions arising from the legitimate exercise of its functions or public functions. Also against point 5, because we agree that it is important for the centres to be able to decide on the best organizational response of the resources, according to the availability of space, as health measures revolve around this concept of the'stable group'. Or we will also vote against point 10, because in the decision whether the German kisses should go to the same class to minimize the name of contacts, we value that the autonomy of centers must prevail. In the case of P3 it is a possibility for you to work folded centers and family. In the case of older students who have gone up in their own group, making this group could be harmful to the emotional level for the brother who kisses the one who separates from his usual group. And to end, the global pandemic situation for the Covid-19 has come to stay, and this is forcing us to make a lot of changes to our lives, but the experience that is bringing us in no case has to be used as an excuse to captivate our educational system. They're always getting better, always listening to professionals, but Catalonia's educational model is a success model. And together for Catalonia we continue to defend the LEC, a law that has had one of the most important consensus in the country, and we continue to bet on an excellent, equitable and inclusive, quality school model, where special education also recognizes its important role, and without oblivion of education in the classroom. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position he has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.93.0	Thank you, President. Well, the Ciutadans Group is presenting us with a proposal with many points, in which they set up a whole series of measures, above all aimed at making the school a safer environment. The choices are safe, I think this is a clear message that we all need to send, and they are, above all, I would say, because the teachers are making a big pocket, the direct teams and also the student, which is complete with all the measures that we are asking for. Obviously, what we are asking for in this case and what we share is that making the school environment even safer and that we do not take so much of the effort of the staff working in these centres, because everything that remains of this effort in security in the teaching staff will be effort that the staff themselves know that they will be able to devote to more pedagogical elements and to fighting against educational inequalities. Therefore, we believe that it is important to be able to meet these demands. As we have already said before, we share the vast majority of the proposals and will vote in favour practically of all of them. In some we had doubts and it is true that you have drafted or traded them with the groups that support the government, and we believe that the result, therefore, is a more nuanced text, more suited to the real needs of the moment and, therefore, we will vote for them. This is the case, for example, with regard to the quick texts and PCRs, which we would not have voted on in its original wording, but we would have voted in the final wording, or with regard to the two points which refer to the curriculum elements, which, initially, therefore, put more emphasis on the idea of recovering content from the past course and which now work more on the door to, therefore, incorporating the vivid experience of the studentship during confinement and the idea of ensuring the continuity of learning in cases of quarantine, which we fully share. I also take advantage of the fact that the three motions we are debating today, all of which continue to have a positive health and safety mark in terms of health and safety – which is understandable given the situation we are living – all of which, therefore, incorporate various points oriented towards more pedagogical elements, as well as aspects related to the need to address the educational inequalities that this pandemic needs to recognize that it is reproduced and that it is multiplying, and therefore it is important to take it into account. We'll abstain from point 10, the German kisses report, which has already come out in previous interventions, right? , because we have not just seen that what you propose to these courses, with the course started, is beneficial for the students, since it would involve moving from the group one of the Germans and we believe that this would not take into account or that it would take into account elements, therefore, more emotional and pedagogical at the time of taking decisions of these. However, we recognize or understand the good intentions of the Member proposing at this point and in the assembly of the Member. We will also abstain at point 17, not because we do not believe that there is a rescue plan for the private school sector, which we actually believe should be. Of course, that is what I would like to say, Mrs Sierra: we believe that it is necessary to talk about "schools in Bressol and not about childcare, so that we do not go to keep children, but rather that we go to have children participate in a process of teaching and learning in an educational classroom and not just in a classroom, so to speak. Therefore, I think it is important that we adjust language when we refer especially to this zero-three stage. In any case, as I said, we will abstain from this point, not because we do not believe that this rescue plan is necessary, because, more than that, we know that many of these schools are small enterprises in the world of the social economy that make a great educational task and that they have suffered a lot with school closure, but we believe that a much broader approach that locks the conjunction of the zero to three stage also lock the municipal schools. And that is why, therefore, we understand that with our vote in favour of the different points of the SCP motion that refer to this zero-three stage we gather much better in this focus. The rest of the points, as I said, will also be voted in favour. The one that refers above all to the more professional, to the reduction of rates, and here I also want to do..., MP Palacín, that has not done in the two interventions. Clearly, these rates that are planted both in the Ciutadans movement and in the PSC, from twenty students to primary and thirty to secondary, oysters! It's just that you were told, it was President Torra who said that you'd make a few moments of wine. Now the only one we give is to fill them in. Therefore, we have not just heard that now they tell us that they do not correspond to these proposals when they were yourselves who formed them, surely too late, because, as we have already said on other occasions, this should have been planned in June and we will not be able to resolve it now. In any case, more personal, more resources to clean up, solve the issue of digitization and materials and protective measures, especially for the special education centres and vulnerable students of which you are involved in the movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.95.0	Thank you, President. Well, as I said before in my previous intervention, we find ourselves with a motion from Ciutadans that what they intend to do is to provide palliative measures of survival, of the better education system before this crisis. Indeed, we consider that most of the proposals that are made are insufficient or are counterproductive or meet the model of transformation of the education system that we are proposing. Unfortunately, and as I said before, at the time of the emergency situation and that in some points really supposes relative improvements to the current or starting situation, we will vote that yes at a few points and we will abstain or vote against in some cases in those elements in which we differ more from the model point of view or consider that the proposals are absolutely insufficient. At the same time, I want to take advantage of the intervention on this motion, because precisely one of the debates and the controversy that we have with Ciutadan is about the educational model for which it does the three-track – that they defend and that we do not share – of private, concerted and public centers, which tend to be one network each time more multiple, at the same time as each greater differentiation that there is between public centers. And, well, about the public debate that prompted the program that we had occasion to see recently on TV3 about school renewal and innovation at schools, we mean innovation, and so much! , we are proposing an important change in the education system; creativity, also, however, look, increase in resources, lower rates, generate territorial equity, eliminate segregation and guarantee equality and equity in the education system for all students, guarantee social and economic support that families need in an unfavourable situation or that have to have a special diversity between their children, believe equality and digital justice and, from here, effectively, what it is about to generate innovation and creativity. Let there be no centres of complexity, because all the centres acquaint all the complexity that is in its territory, in its surroundings. That there are no centres of special innovation, because all the centres, absolutely all of them, and therefore from the first to the last, until the last student, all of them enjoy the same opportunities of creativity and innovation, an innovation that is certainly already being made at public schools and more would be if they enjoyed the resources needed to last it in the long term. Therefore, we do not agree with the liberalisation of the education world, we do not agree with creating a regular education market, but with a single, universal, public and free network that is new for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.96.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.97.0	Thank you, President. From the seat to announce our vote in favour, to a motion that is similar to the previous one, perhaps more focused on the imminent needs that we now have as a result of the pandemic within the education system, of society in general, an aspect that seems interesting to us, because at this time of pandemic it is essential to have clear priorities in the management of the Government in general and of the Department of Education in particular, right? Because the education system is true that it has many shortcomings and needs, but unfortunately now it is time to prioritize and, therefore, the pandemic demands a number of resources and needs that the Department of Education is not currently facilitating the education system, hence our criticism and hence our support for this motion. We therefore believe that the department's political action must be channeled to address the impending needs of the education system as a result of the pandemic. And, among other reasons, because actually a government in office like this little more than managing day to day can do, and hence our regret – and I take advantage of the counselor – when I moved him to the last control session that it was necessary to call elections. Now we have no elections and what we have is a functioning government that can only manage day by day. What we ask you to do is to manage it effectively to at least alleviate the serious effects that Covid-19 is causing both in the educational system in particular, and in Catalan society in general. The motion we believe is focused on that and hence our support for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.98.0	Thank you, Congressman. And again, Mrs Sonia Sierra has the word to say about the papers. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.99.0	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to answer some of the things that have been said. With regard to twins and twins, it is precisely families who ask that they be together in the same class. So, I don't know if from Republican Left they would be able to look them in the eye and tell them that what they're asking is very unfair to their children. And about the continuous day and the sixth hour, look, it's that Citizens do not position themselves by either model or by the other. For what is positioned Citizens is before the freedom of choice, before what is positioned Citizens is to listen to the families and let them decide which is the best model for their children and, moreover, we consider that certainly in this situation of pandemic, for it is certainly a very good option, because the entrances and exits are minimized and because also now there are many families that are teleworking. But the reality is that in the end the Generalitat neither gives the option of the sixth hour nor gives the option of the continuous day. I would also like to point out that the councillor did not stand out precisely by listening to the educational community, and today the councillor Imbroda, of the Junta de Andalucia, has reached an agreement with the educational community there in Andalusia and I would like to see the example and the same happen here in Catalonia. Then, for what he does to the papers, from the beginning of the pandemic we have offered our help to the government, because we understand that it is very important to keep the schools open, but at the same time that these schools remain secure. Since the month of March we have not stopped to meet with the educational community, and here come the proposals that we are carrying today, and others that we have presented. I want to thank all the presentations that have been made. I also want to thank the effort to negotiate. We have finally been able to accept many issues, and some with compromise, so I give thanks and I think it's a good sign that we all agree that we have to do everything we can to get the course going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.100.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. With the rest of the motions, they know that we will vote for them tomorrow at the end of the plenary session. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2020-2021 school year]] [[302-00240/12]] Let's move on, then, to the next, that it is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the initiation of the school year 2020-2021, presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose it, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.101.0	Yes, thank you, President. First of all, you go for our congratulations and gratitude to the whole educational community: to all families, to all students and to all teachers, because it is certainly mainly thanks to them and to them that the education system is operating at our home at this time of educational emergence. But let's just say that, too, because we do not share this idea that this is an excuse for public administration to indulge in its shortcomings and inadequacies. Thanks to the heroization of everyone in the educational community, but this does not serve to cover up, say, the inadequacies and shortcomings of the Public Administration, which, obviously, at these times, today, is not yet providing the education system with the necessary resources taking into account that it is a basic service and an essential service for our society. It was, but the crisis shows that it's still more, and irreversible. Well, we, in the question we made to the counselor, have already indicated, as I also had occasion to do in my previous interventions, that this crisis is an occasion to transform the school. The school was already in crisis, it was already in crisis before the arrival of the Covid-19: years of retailing, years of insufficiency in investment, etcetera. But the Covid-19 is sharpening and accelerating, intensifying, this structural crisis that we have already experienced, with absolutely unacceptable segregation and with absolutely inexhaustible inequalities. So, that's why we raised the need and the convenience of taking advantage of this crisis to change the model, to transform the model. And we talked about a model based on the universal and inalienable right to education, to face-to-face education, to absolutely face-to-face education, to avoid school segregation and inequality throughout the country, ensuring fairness between all centers and all students, ensuring support for vulnerable families and students with special educational needs or with any kind of social or functional diversity. Consider education an absolutely essential service. But, it matters, that this does not serve to be the pretext of postponing work rights as the right to go. I served essential, yes. The working rights of the faculty are also absolutely essential. Obviously, we insist on this importance of taking this crisis as an opportunity to change the model and transform the model. To make you big, you have to think big. Let us not think small and seek only palliative measures, let us take advantage of the situation so as to create a better education system for all and for all. And this happens to increase resources at these times. The educational community is exposed throughout a series of uncertainties, a series of planning, information and communication deficiencies. There is certainly a lot of concern for uncertainty, but above all for lack of resources. And that goes on to increase the faculty and lower the rates. This is an obvious fact that you will want to deny, but it is an evidence between the people of the educational community and everyone in this country. And, listen, soon it's time to put it down before the crisis. It was enough to bring us down before. And obviously it is necessary to lower it to respond to educational needs and the need for health care to reduce class groups. But, we insist, it is also necessary to lower rates to be able to meet the specific educational needs and the greater complexity that this crisis generates. This crisis creates a need for greater educational attention, and this means lowering rates. That doesn't just mean lowering students per class, it means increasing teacher per class group. This concept I think it's important that we bury it. And another issue: the dignity of the substitute staff. At these moments they continue to fill in. Shut up from the first day. Call names. I respect the dignity of the inside and the outside and the substitutes. We take care of these essential and phonenal personnel. There must be until the end of the course, until August 31st, appointments from the first day. That's a phone question. I, finally, on the 9th and the 15th, first wave called to the education sector. The 21st of October at the university. Waves come and waves come. Given the situation, this is a symptom that you cannot overlook. I'm not looking at another gang. This educational gap, to which we obviously give support and with which we are absolutely solidarity and solidarities, calls for health measures, downsizing, more doctrinal, substitutions for vulnerable people and health personnel. It is obviously very important to bear in mind that when the educational community begins to mobilize because they can no longer, when there is a call, I insist, with which we are fully supportive, that they do not turn their heads and do not look at another band. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.102.0	Thank you. To defend the papers presented has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.103.0	Good afternoon to everyone again. Since the Socialist Group we will vote mostly in favour of this motion because we very much share its focus. It is clear that we must ask the Government to guarantee the universal right to education throughout life with an inclusive character, with equity, without any exclusion, and that this implies that measures are also taken in quarantine and kindergarten periods to ensure the continuity of learning, regardless of the socio-economic situations of each child or young person. And we also share that educational services are considered essential services, because all of us have seen how the closure of centres during the last course has involved very important hardships, especially among the most vulnerable students, among students with special educational needs and their families. And we saw how the social and educational inequalities that already existed grew, and we understand that they can't happen again. This proposal also places the emphasis on a question that has not yet worked, especially during the confinement and in view of the planning of the school year, which was communication, negotiation, consensus with the educational community, to face very complex circumstances – extraordinary – which required much more dialogue, a shared diagnosis, and going from hand to hand at the time of making proposals. We said that it seemed to us that an opportunity had also been lost to refocus in this context in order to be able to bring to the essential, preserve, age to address this situation of educational emergence. And so we can share that, too. We also welcome the fact that we have worked to ensure face-to-face education wherever possible, and it seems to us that we need to look for more resources to ensure that all levels of education are as visible as possible. For what it does to inclusion, we also understand that it is necessary to provide specialist staff centres, much more important to ensure this attention to diversity, to special educational needs, that each time they are more numerous. Unfortunately, we are realizing that certain advances in inclusive school, justified by the pandemic situation, by health demands, are being compromised. But it can't be, first because we have a decree of 2017 about to deploy three years later and because the pandemic has made it difficult for many children and young people and probably requires increasing special support for certain students. On the other hand, we also share the need to ensure this food service throughout the course. Before we talked about it, I wouldn't want to repeat it. And in fact, in this sense, we are told that many centres that have already had confined groups, most of the families that are in this situation and, therefore, have children who are beneficiaries of these food aid, are not going to collect their beds, perhaps because they are more responsible than the department. And, therefore, we believe that we need to rethink the formula better to ensure this sufficiency in halving episodes. For what you do at 15, I'd like to thank you for accepting the emena. We agree that the pandemic cannot be a factor that increases school segregation and that educational centres must be able to effectively dispose of all the resources needed to meet the educational needs of their students. And, therefore, we have insisted on the need to move forward gradually, progressively, in the co-responsibility of the set of educational centres with respect to the objective of public services, such as balanced schooling towards a universal system, free of charge, where the financing of each centre depends on the needs and on its public service commitment. And, finally – because I don't want to repeat any other questions that have already been raised – say that we will abstain from point 6, which is the relation to the races, because we think that changing them again in this course would mean a massive organizational difficulty for the center. We will also abstain from point 11, which refers to the process of internalization of educational services in collaboration with the local world, because, although we do not oppose entry, we do not see that there is enough funding to address it in the short term. And we will also abstain at the end of the day, because beyond the claim to the Government of the State – which we can hear in the sense that a Government of the Generality has to be demanding – we also think that it has to be self-demanding. And in the area of its competences, it could act and make decisions, as the Valencian Community and others have done. It seems to us sometimes that his inaction is in the claim. One example: why not recover a grant from the joints to devote the home care service to strengthening child care in order to take care of the parents and seas of which other things, for example, have to be done? For all this we will abstain in these three points. We'll vote for the rest. And it does announce that Units for Forward will make a different vote in point 15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.104.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.105.0	Thanks, and hello one more time. The fact that we have three education motions today shows that we are ahead of one of the issues that is most worrying to all of our citizens. A good education system is instrumental in ensuring equal opportunities, but it is that, moreover, this year the course is very complicated, because we are living in a very complicated reality. The Covid paralyzed us all at the end of the winter, and no one was prepared to take this situation, because the virus did not come with an instruction manual, and, in fact, by today's day it still doesn't know everything. As the virus became more known, the measures that had been taken had been changed, some with more uncertainty and others with less uncertainty, but that had happened to everyone. What is obvious is that we all have to work folded because the course works the best way possible. And to find the best solutions it is very important to listen to the educational community – I said in my previous intervention – because the faculty, the management teams, the families are the ones who know the best they need. From Citizens we have gathered with the whole educational community from March to today, and all, absolutely all, say the same, and the counselor does not listen and does not even listen to his needs. I assume that the members of the CUP have found themselves in the same situation and that is why they are voting for point 3. We have repeatedly asked, in public and in private, the councillor, who, if you please, listen to the educational community, and we hope, to see, that you listen to us, and to see if they can get rid of the vacancy that is already being called. We will support a large part of the youth because we understand that there is a good will to try to improve things, but this does not mean, obviously, that we agree one hundred_per_cent with everything they propose or in what it is written. With regard to point 4, for example, we think that it is the health authorities that have to decide, but we share the idea that every step must be taken to ensure that education is present and that it is an equal opportunity education, because it is clear that in the event of confinement the most disadvantaged are the students who come from a most disadvantaged socioeconomic situation. In this band, schools aren't just places to learn content, they're also places to learn skills, to learn skills, and what's very important, they're centres to socialize, and that's what's important for the gutter and that's what's important for teenagers. So we agree that students should go to school, but they should go there with all the safety measures. And that's why we'll also give support at the point of reducing the rates, and obviously, to reduce the rates, the teacher has to increase. We will also vote in favour of providing the appropriate EPI faculty. It's points that have been repeated to the different places, it's points that are very obvious, that we all agree, and I hope that, once approved, it serves because it is then finished to the school centers. We also agree with the point that all computer students have to be equipped, connected to the Internet... They're points, I repeat, that I was taking myself to the police station and explaining it a while ago. And, finally, we also agree that all students who have a food grant must be guaranteed their feet. Actually, in our young lady, what we're asking is that we're going to review the shields and expand these food bags. Because this health crisis has also brought us to an economic crisis and that makes people who never needed a food grant in life need it now. That's why it's very important that you review your coats so you can get these food bags. I've already said that the more or less we agree with the whole place and we'll give it support. But what we don't agree with, and it's not my interpretation, but that Mr. Riera has said it explicitly since this phrastol, is that they pretend to make a total mess of the education system, and I think that, man, by the way and in the middle of the pandemic maybe it's not the most sensible option, huh? So, we, these points that are so ideological... at 11 of us, we'll abstain, because you don't really feel the internalization of things that may be working well. And we'll vote against point 15, because you can't try to change the education system for a young man, and less in the middle of a pandemic. It is obvious the ideological distance between Ciutadans and the CUP: while we opt for freedom and we think that families must be able to sort out the model they want, they want us all uniformed and sort out their model, which, of course, is for them the good. We will continue to fight for freedom and equality, because we consider them to be two fundamental pillars of the welfare state. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.106.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To speak now, Mrs Gloria Freixa, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has made a point. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.107.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, President. Members, Members, today the CUP presents us a motion on a series of measures to be applied at this start of school year taking into account the pandemic that we are patenting, and we want to thank the motion presented and also the point of understanding that they have reached with the Republican Group and with Juntes for Catalonia in accepting up to eight papers, which shows that we share the same concerns. I would like to point out, however, from what I was commenting, that the Department of Education is already working on all the points you have in the House. And if you see on your website, at first, when you talk about "safe school, the department takes a series of measures that say in favour of face-to-face school activity to guarantee the right to education and socialization of the student. Therefore, the face-to-face objective is well present. "Individual and equitable education, and not segregation, is a fundamental right of our children and young people, and we work to ensure it in a social and community environment with the highest security and quality. So the search for a fair and non-segregative management is also there. He goes on to say: "For all this, procedures have been established to create safe environments and to preserve as much as possible the assimilation of educational objects at the centres. Therefore, the Government shares his proposals, and many of them, in fact, are already being implemented. A secure school claims precisely this, not to fail to offer a service that, as you rightly stated, is essential, and we consider it so, but always do so by seeking the maximum guarantees of security. Each centre within its autonomy, following the instructions of the department, manages the current situation from the reality of its own centres. And we want to thank publicly – as the rest of the groups have done – once more, the efforts of the whole educational community: the school principals, the teachers and the workers of the centres, the parents and the seas, and the same students. The added effort of all of them is ensuring the presence of education at very difficult times. Now, from your young man, you know something hard about us, like point 15, when you, at the time of asking for more help, say: "In providing these resources, we need to prioritize public schools. And, man, here, we know, we disagree, because we understand that – and I hope that you too –..., if not all the centers are fighting against the same pandemic, and why don't you have to hatch a part of it. Is that to say, as a matter of priority, according to his title? Or would they not create a little more just value depending on the complexity of the center or its real needs? We know that they did not sign the School Segregation Pact, but that they had a great deal of consensus. And I'd like to remind you that the whole Catalan education system was taken into account here, and not just part of that education system. And here, with you, we disagree. Also when they're talking about rations. You're talking about as many god-rates in childhood education, six in groups from one to two years, up to fifteen in primary and secondary education. I, you see, I don't know, huh? , but these measures are all of a uniformity, without any diversity, without attending to the diversity and complexity of each educational centre. The autonomy of the centres is precisely to be able to meet the needs of each one from a real and proper knowledge of this reality. Each centre considers it a world, with an educational project that takes into account its particularity, at times territorial, at times social. And you ask for a few times, you fill us in a number, and I don't know what they're referring to, because if you look at the website of the Department of Education, there you set the rates in thirteen, which would be included better than the rates that Finland contemplates, a country quite well valued at the level of education. Therefore, we don't understand very well why we are being uniformed these times, when you yourselves know that the school has evolved, that it doesn't work so much with closed groups, but there are choices that already work with natural groups, others that work with internal groups. And now this has become even more pronounced. Looking for a way to work with candy groups just to look for more security and guarantee the service. Together for Catalonia, more than strictly talking about ration, we like to talk about how to manage the diversity of each educational centre. Moreover, we demand the diversity of the Catalan education system. And it would seem that you are more for uniformity, which is totally against our model and also against the society we want. And, finally, we're still talking about ration. I'd like to talk about zero-to-three-year education, which is usually from the end to the children's home. In many cases, the regulation establishes that this can be delegated to the same municipalities. And establish, as the maximum number of students, that the municipality cannot overcome, a name. But it also sets a minimum name, and that's free. Okay? And, therefore, seeing your requests, I have set myself to look at a little how it works in Berga, where you govern, and I have looked at a little how it works in all the children's lars. And if you enter the websites of Berga's children's homes, you will see that the routes are not very similar to those you are asking us here today, by God, six students. There, according to the age of thirteen and fifteen students, there are a lot of people there. I'm just saying it because your petitions often please us, but what's different is when you find yourself in government responsibility, and a premise and a few needy ones, right? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.108.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.109.0	Thank you, President. Hello to everyone, to the workers and workers of the chamber, also deputies, deputies, honourable counselor. Well, let's have three education motions. Practically today, they have confided whether we are in the Education Committee of the Parliament, in the group room or we were in plenary session. In any case, it is obvious that it is one of the pillars of the welfare state and, therefore, it is one of the great concerns that we have all parliamentary groups. And, in this sense, it is good that we also debate and deepen our debate on education in our country. And much more at a time like what we're going through right now, a time of pandemic crisis, economic, social and health care crisis. So it's good that we're not talking and that we're going deep. Now, it's also good that we do it under some criteria of rigor. And it is also good that we also understand that many of the proposals that will be approved today, if we contrast them with each other, will add that even some of them may be contradictory. Therefore, sometimes, four months after a few elections too, we should analyse well what our ideological positions are and who our positions respect the education system of our country. In this sense, for example, so, in the CUP proposal..., they have always defended it and, therefore, it has the consistency of always, which is the reduction of rates. And we – you know – have always been very opposed to dealing with the ratio and number of students for each classroom based on or depending on concrete resolution proposals or specific cases. But, at the same time, we also want to recognize this diversity and, therefore, the different rhythms that must apply to our territory, to our country. But it is obvious that the proposal presented by the UPC is inexhaustible, because we do not have a structure or an economic one, via finance, it is already on the tax side as well as on the way to other ways of financing, that we can give an answer. Nor is it a proposal that, with the current spaces, with the educational spaces, with the current educational centres, can be given an answer. Caldrian profound modifications in the whole structure of urbanism, from spaces to school centers. And, on the other hand, the counselor was warning, from a long time ago, that we would enter into a situation of educational emergence. He's been warning long ago that there are teachers and teachers available because we're entering this phase of educational emergence. Therefore, no one can surprise us that, finally, the counselor when he warned us and when he establishes the different structures to deal with it, we are in this current situation. Now, are we the same as one when the ordinary plenary took place where there were the different questions that have given place and felt to the motions that we are debating and voting today? No, we're in a different situation. There were many uncertainties and today there are many more certain ones. The protocols are working. The active protocols are due at the end. And those doubts that were there this first week, when they opened the schools again, went away, because they also went away polishing, because also, as we all know, this pandemic is a pandemic that is active and that is variable. On the other hand, even if we don't agree with the times, we do agree that it is a topic that will often have to be talked about and we must continue to deepen it. But there is one element that is also key. There's one element that's also very uplifting for us and that's why we presented a point addition theme, huh? , is this point number 16, which is that of family conciliation. It is very easy to ask the Government of the Generality to apply measures for this conciliation, but I believe that precisely those who claim it with more insistence and persistence are oblivious to the fact that the main measure they should take is that any parent, mother, guardian, guardian who has children in charge and that child is to stay home for 40 years has low labor, low labor for IT. And that can only be done by the State. And, therefore, without the application of this measure, we were diverted from attention. No, it's not that we're offering the measure to rub our chips off, it's all the contrary, it's that only you have the opportunity to do it. And, it's more, the Labour Department – and I'm done with it – has put in place a three-cent grant to help these families that you're leaving out of the system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.110.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés has a turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.111.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, in this CUP motion, there is a question that we fully share in this pandemic, that is the need to satisfy two rights, that are the right to health and the right to education, an education, in addition, with a plan that we also share as a model of public education, universal and free and that, in addition, we understand that in this context it must be eminently face-to-face, as a basic element to fight against educational inequalities. At the same time, we also believe that this young man, and also with the interventions he's done before, huh? It's a bit of a debate between what's real, what's reasonable, what's possible and what's surely impossible, isn't it? Then, if we ask ourselves whether it is reasonable to consider the educational services an essential service, then it seems to us that it is totally common sense. And, in fact, we don't understand how among all the folds, so we didn't consider it before and how we allowed, for example, that it's tankless in your day special education centers, which now doesn't have to happen again. So, that's reasonable. Is it possible to pursue an effective policy of communication, dialogue, negotiation and consensus? In other words, is it possible to reach agreement with the educational community on the planning of the school year or was it possible? It was possible, and we saw it in Valencia. It's not what we had here, but it was possible. The rest of the questions that arise, many of which we also believe are reasonable and possible, now some are not. And the question of the reduction of rates, it seems to us, therefore, that it is markedly impossible with the situation that we currently have these rates that are arising. And we also believe that it is the responsibility of the groups to come up with proposals that are reasonable and that are possible in the long run, without saying that I do not mean, therefore, that we do not share the same objective of an educational model and a need for transformation. But in today's day and in the immediate future, these things that are supposed to be impossible here, in Berga and anywhere. Therefore, we understand that they do not correspond. They do correspond to those we voted in favour of the previous motions, which, in fact, were the ones that the same government had promised and did not comply. The young lady also raises elements that we believe it is important to highlight. Obviously, the need for more staff, but this young man is very specific, and I think that this is important to highlight, of different types of education staff: specialist, complementary and auxiliary; the importance of teachers and teachers, psychologists, social educators. Therefore, not only the teaching staff, but also the combination of other educational staff who have an essential function in the struggle against inequalities and perception, in the conception of education as something of community logic. And this also brings us to other points that the same young person recognizes, as is the need to contemplate territorial diversity, the specificities of the rural world and the need for education to end up in the network with the group of actors of a territory and specifically specialized in each of these territories. And also another element, the question of extracurricular activities, which we also believe, therefore, that there has been a lot of banding, and that is very important, because we know that many of the educational inequalities are explained precisely by the participation or not of the student in extracurricular activities and the huge differences that are produced here. And, therefore, the importance that from public policies we continue to be able to guarantee these activities on conditions of equality at the conjunct of the alumni. He also mentions the necessary support, which I mentioned before, to the management team, because it is they who have actually made this safe opening of the schools possible at the present time. And lastly, and without needing an element that I think is important to repeat, which is the situation we have of oversaturation especially to secondary and FP. Therefore, the routes are important and we cannot maintain the oversaturation we have in these classrooms. But in any case, in order to finish the debate that has also opened on point 15, we obviously collect this model. And we do believe it is important to recognize that the system we have in Catalonia as public and concerted generates inequalities. The fact that the concertee has six hours and the public does not, this is an educational inequality; the fact that the actual cost of the concertee, the actual cost of the concertee is higher because the families that have provided more resources, this generates an educational inequality. And, therefore, this is the reality that we have. And, therefore, this young man also places us at this point on the reality that we have, which is a reality that we need to be able to change. And lastly, also in the mention of the Member of Niubó and the Member of Parliament Albert, we will vote in favour of the point they have added, number 16, because we understand that it is absolutely necessary and, even more so than we are actually part of this Government of the State, so we believe that this should be claimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.112.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on this occasion, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Daniel Serrano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.113.0	Thank you, President, from the seat. Third motion for education in this plenary session. That means that there is concern on the part of the parliamentary groups, at least from the parliamentary opposition groups, a motion, in this case the UPC, which contains some proposals that go in the same line as the previous two and therefore reflect positive aspects aimed at seeking the balance between quality and safety within the education system. And, therefore, we will support them without any problem whatsoever. However, we understand that there are also other types of requests and requests that we do not understand as positive. Since we have found this pandemic solution, we have been told that priority must be given to day-to-day management of all departments, especially the Department of Education. And, therefore, there is the key and virtue of the department's success, which can prioritize at a time of pandemic. The problem is that it gives us the feeling that you want to take advantage of the pandemic, so, to crystallize your ideological obsessions, and we respect them, but understand that we are not going to be able to help you there and, therefore, those points that are aimed at crystallizing your ideological obsessions, we are not going to support you. And we will therefore vote against those that we believe are positive, and the others will vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.114.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, to pronounce on the papers has a turn over Mr Riera's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.115.0	Thank you, President. Well, we, in the interpellation and in the motion, have planted and planted some basic ideas with great clarity. Dialogue with the educational community, absolutely insufficient at the time of today, if not, we would not have the waves that we have, probably, or have not reached, this extreme, and that they will come. So, uh, dial. Two, family-treball-school reconciliation, a fundamental issue if we do not want education to also contribute to greater social inequality and a major social crisis. Resources, resources for schools, reduction in ratios – now we'll talk about it – and increase in teaching and provision of health equipment, ensuring equity, equality, non-segregation and attention to diversity, but I also support families, quota elimination, support for the most vulnerable families, both for school activity as an extra-schooler and for the question of women. Therefore, resources, dialogue and conciliation. We have raised these questions in more detailed and concrete terms in the various proposals of the motion. And, look, you're not realizing some of our proposals. The challenge is that we are once evaluating how inequality, segregation, inequality has increased, and how the overload and stress of the teaching staff has increased, with all the consequences that this will have, from a point of view of social crisis, social inequalities, mental health problems, etc. And to see who is right, to see who was more realistic, if not us, that we put solutions so that this is not so and so as to guarantee a school where this universal right to education is truly possible, without inequality, equitably, where the labor rights of the workers and workers of education are also essential and respected, because they are the condition that the school also works..., in time the challenge for us to make an assessment of who are the consequences of this model that you, despite everything, want to sustain and that we think that we can radically change. Thank you for the papers, thank you for those incorporations that have certainly allowed our movement to prosper, without renouncing our plans, perhaps yielding to some objectives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.116.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.117.0	...by the end, but surely also making some immediate improvements in the education system possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.118.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of the Covid-19 funds for economic and social recovery]] [[302-00235/12]] Let's move on to the following motion, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the management of the Covid-19 fund for economic and social recovery, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republica. To defend it, Mr. Marc Sanglas has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.119.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members and Members, in any case, a few weeks ago we asked the Vice-President about a follow-up of questions; an ugly reference to the management of European funds, and another ugly question also, in that same question..., we referred to an element, to a discussion about the resources or Romans of the local area. And in this sense, weeks later, in any case, we presented the following motion and now a few weeks later we see it. The announcement, already from the entrance – I have also communicated to the rest of the spokespersons and some conversations that we have had –, the withdrawal of the majority of the quarter point, which refers to some questions that since the local world have complained and that the Government of the State has ended up paying attention, as it could not be in any other way, and therefore we believe that we have achieved the objective, and at these times... This was approved on Tuesdays, precisely, so that in this motion that we have prepared we could not contemplate. We continued to insist; the Government of the State closed in on this subject; we knew it was possible and, in any case, we were grateful that this was possible and that the Romans could be managed for each of the assemblies. Similarly, there are some questions that were raised in this inquiry and that we believe we have to complain and continue to complain and, therefore, this young man addresses the issue from two points of view. For a band, those elements that affect the government. A first in which we call on the Government of the State to transfer, as at least €31,000_million, the European Fund for Economic Reactivation and the Fight against the Covid, destined for transformative projects, economic transition and digitisation, so that they can be managed from nearness, therefore, for the Government of the Generality, with the participation of the assemblies. And here... it's one of the elements that we believe to be different from the state government. We want all these help to be in collaboration with local entities; we believe that they are the first people to know about the territory and therefore seem very important to us. On the other hand, we also demand, and as we say, unfortunately and badly, this Parliament has done in accounts, on numerous occasions, we demand from the Government of the State the compliment of the legality for which it makes investments in infrastructure, that at one time and another it is not complete. Many promises, many plugs of millions and I don't know how many promises in investments that never end or, in any case, sometimes arise programmed to the assumptions of the State but never end up being a reality. Only the inversion execution data are fered: approximately 12_percent of the planned inversions in the country are executed. Therefore, it is demonstrated that this obviously affects the country's economy. And so, we're still complaining to the state government, that's what color it is, huh? , because ultimately, unfortunately, we have already had experiences of different governments of the State and each of them, in their own way, have been incomplete. Therefore, from this point of view we believe that it is important that we demand another time the compliment in the field of infrastructures. For that which affects the realm of the local world. And here, let's say, we pose and want to put emphasis on what is true and we recognize and, in any case, we rejoice, that the Council of Ministers has already collected some requests that were there. In any case, the Government of the State, not wanting to move's of its position respects the Romans, the Romanesque Decree..., said that it is not possible, that it is not possible, that it would not present an option again. Anyway, he saw that they moved. Anyway, we're not happy about the pressure. What we're asking for in this young man is that he's counting, that there's negotiation and that he's talking to the municipal authorities. That the FEMP is not used and that in any case what we claim is that it takes into account the Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities to negotiate these elements as representative entities of Catalan municipalism. We understand that the spurious use of the FEMP in this sense to try to justify an agreement at its time, which failed decisively after its parliamentary processing, is obvious. Some of the things we believe, and they're on the table, and so we carry this motion to reinforce this claim from the local world, are this 5,000_million euros. The State has committed that it has 5,000_million euros that it would put on top of the table, but we want those 5,000_million euros to be accessible for all the assemblies, whether they have or don't have Romans. The effects of the Covid are at all gatherings, whether or not they have been preserved. The situation of whether or not they have been or have not been is due to various circumstances, but the Covid suffers from all the gatherings. Therefore, we believe that these €5,000_million are needed to be distributed equally among all the assemblies. For what it does to some of the items that have not been collected and that we understand that they should be collected, it is to allow the joints to have debt capacity. There are some gatherings that have this capacity and that must be able to allocate public resources. We believe that in the context of crisis, there are sufficient resources, and that resources must be in the street and not in a bank. And, therefore, from this point of view, we claim these situations and also claim the creation of a fund to pay for the extraordinary expenses of public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.120.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Congressman Dimas Gragera has a turn now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.121.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon to everyone. Today Esquerra Republicana brings us to debate and vote a motion entitled 'on the management of the Covid funds for economic and social recovery. The truth is that by reading the title of the motion and in the face of the pandemic situation that surrounds us and taking into account that the Generalitat of Catalonia « manages» and « manages it I have pointed out in quotes– a budget of more than 30,000_million_of_euro, we believed that you in this motion were going to propose that with the resources that we have, it should be promoted in an economic and social plan to alleviate the emergency that we are experiencing. Or we thought that perhaps you would consider providing more resources to the health system. Illusions of us, we thought maybe they'd bring us here a rescue plan to so many sectors that they're going through so badly, right? , such as tourism, or meeting the needs of hotels or self-employed people. Perhaps we believed that you had realized that the cultural sector must be rescued, or that the nightlife sector must be rescued, that on Tuesday you reached an agreement with them and yesterday you were told the opposite. A sector that has our full support, which has been closed for more than seven months and has been protesting precisely against its management since Monday. Also, how you have turned your back on other sectors, such as the trade fairs, which here we come to agreements with them and then you fail; or the paradise sector, we could list many. Illusions, I say, of us, because when we read the title of the motion we believed that you would have realized, Mr Aragonès, that those budgets that you presented before the pandemic could not serve after the pandemic, and that you would have made the necessary modifications so that all that waste in policies that certainly do not serve the general interest would be destined to cover the basic public policies and to cover the effects of this pandemic. But your motion doesn't speak of that, it speaks of the opposite. His motion is the excuse precisely not to attend to all this which we have enumerated and many more. Because we already know how you act, we have been debating with you for a few years, we know what your movements are and this motion is the creation of a new mantra. It is the update of the « Spain steals us in pandemic version, in European funds version, because we are convinced that you are presenting this motion in order to be able to tell all the sectors concerned – as you are already doing, as you are already doing – that you are not going to meet their needs because the State does not give you the money so that you can meet them. And this mantra is already getting into it and they are telling the economic sectors, and they are telling it right now in something that seems to us to be despicable, and that we do not think we can manipulate the sectors that are really having a bad time. Because we can understand another part of the motion, and there they will have our vote in favour, in which it refers to the agreements concerning the flexibility of spending, the investment of local corporations. But again here we understand that it is demagogic for you to ask for it when you have presented many initiatives here since the opposition, when you have maintained high debts with the municipalities, when you do not assume your competences, when you have even had demands, you have had demands not to attend to childcare, for example, or when you devote more to your illegal foreign action than to municipal funding programmes. You, returning to the subject, have learned that you are going to distribute European funds and suddenly you have become more Spanish than Manolo the Bombo, have you not? I don't know. They said to them: "Well, what is here of ours? But I believe that these needs must be claimed from solidarity and from administrative loyalty, not as you have done. Because you have done a study and said: « 31,000_million_euro. For us. A study that is based only on criteria that you have decided. They are able to, if in the end this amount of money is not received, still say and talk about fiscal deficits, because we already know them. But luckily, here we are to dismantle their fallacy. And let me make it clear that the clearest proof that this motion is demagogic is that they have not had a single amendment from the opposition. Because, look, if you really wanted to talk about funding, you wanted to talk about resources, first of all, you should have agreed, when the opposition reached out to you, to work on pacts, to work on agreements in which we could all claim more resources. Secondly, if they really cared about funding and resources, they would not leave a void the debate forums where the autonomous communities were discussing funding with the Government of the State, precisely. And third, if you really wanted this to be effective, instead of bringing it here, where you have no competition at any of the points you are asking for, you could present it with your group at the Congress of Deputies. To end – time is running out – it is clear that, unlike nationalism, we believe that rights belong to people, not to governments and territories. We defend good management, we defend solidarity, and we are convinced that you represent quite the opposite; you represent wastefulness and insolidity. So don't count on us to approve your demagogy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Marta Moreta has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.123.0	Thank you, President. Today we find ourselves with a Republican Left Movement that what they want, as always, is to blow. To make sound to blame the Government of the State, to demand and claim without bearing in mind that here, in Catalonia, its Government, that of Junts per Catalunya and that of Esquerra, has only posed through the joints without raising an alternative and no proposal to deal with the problems that the joints have at these moments of the pandemic. What have you done to improve the financing of gatherings? I will say this: to vote against the royal decree that the government of the State carried to improve, precisely, the financing of the local authorities. I'd like to clarify a first concept. You are responsible for the fact that, at this point in time, the assemblies cannot use the Romans. And, yes, perhaps – perhaps – we should have sought some support and consensus to convince the assemblies and parliamentary groups to approve that royal decree, but we have been able to rectify to find solutions. Second concept to clarify. The new proposal of the Government of the State intends to distribute a fund of €5,000_million with double criteria of distribution: per population and second Romanesque, in addition to making a fund of transport of €400_million. I agree with European legislation, the exceptional suspension of the fiscal rules of 2020 and 2021, which is produced in the compliment of the measures recently adopted for the European Union. And what is that supposed to mean for the local world? So, first, it is suspected that the requirement is to allocate the surplus and reduce the debt without a tax rule limit and without limitation for the expense relief. Second. The goals of stabilization are suspended and the locals will be able to have a deficit if they are financed with their own Romans, and they will be able to spend it with whatever their skills are. Third. Globally, it will involve the mobilization of 15,000_million euros of romance novelists for local entities in their own years. Fourth. The suspension of fiscal rules is expected to freeze the financial economic plans submitted for local entities for both fiscal years as a result of the failure of the targets set in 2019. And five and last. The suspension of tax rules does not affect all the obligations laid down in the Organic Law on Presupposition and Financial Sustainability. There is a reference rate of 2.2 for both local and local communities and more than 25_million euros will reach the communities via transfer or through a deficit. That's a lot of resources. Let's remember that the Covid fund was 16,000_million euros. Now, the government of the state will allocate much more. It may well be said that the Government of the State has been on the side of the autonomous communities and the assemblies, because they want these people to be able to devote their resources to social, economic reconstruction in their territories. This is the difference between a left-wing government and a right-wing government. Look, in this Parliament we have approved various motions aimed at improving the financing of municipal councils and entities. But you, on repeated occasions, fail to complete the agreements approved in this Parliament. The Federation and the Catalan Association of Municipis adopted a joint declaration demanding the compliment of the Generality of their historical financing debts to the local world. That's why they don't say anything. Can't they make self-criticism of nothing? Don't you think you'll recognize the State Government's pocket on this subject? And don't forget that there is – what's important, huh? –... who removed the Feder fund from the joints have been you. And that's why there's no rectification, no rectification. I honestly think they're headlines and they lack honesty. This young man here, Mr. Blood, is out of date because the government of the state has done its duty and has already communicated these nine measures a few days ago. By the way, much more extensive than you're planting today on this young man. Why, then, do they keep it? They want to see that they're doing something when, in fact, you're another. And today they're trying to pull point 4 out of the motion because they saw they were wrong, because the government of the state is completing what you're saying. Look, they're paralyzed, shuffled, broken, functioning and acting, and they think someone's still going to believe it. Now is not the time for party interests, it is the time for municipal interests. We will not support this timeless young man who only wants to sell smoke in fears that they are already solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.124.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.125.0	Well, first of all, I would like to thank Mr. Bloods for presenting us with this motion, because it allows us to debate what the Government of the State is doing in this case, the Government of the Left before the complicated situation of the autonomous communities and the assemblies in the economic crisis situation. First of all, when I saw the young man, I was about to present a note of observation or that I noticed the turn of one hundred and forty degrees that the Government of the State had made in managing the economic crisis respect to 2008 or 2011, and now I will explain why, respect the previous management that the People's Party and Democratic Convergence, its member of Government, implemented austerity policy, did they not? Then I thought they would withdraw it, because I believe in what the state government is doing, well, at the end of the day, I think we should have a round of applause this week, and now I'm talking about it, because ultimately, and I came in, what we have before everything is an authentic rescue plan. And I want to highlight it, huh? 2020: 3,200_million euros unconditioned and lost in a Covid fund requested by the Generality and that we agreed, a deficit target of 0.2, the expense rule. And we'll see if they'll spend everything, because it also generates deficiency and it's more complicated, but I have the feeling that they won't hang up on this year's deficit target than they did last year from 0.6, right? We'll be around, huh? Therefore, practically, therefore, the situation of 2020 is resolved, in addition to the compromise, obviously, it cannot be in any other way, in a state that should be truly federal, therefore, of the financing on a part, in this case of the Generality's debt, which is in a very complicated situation, on the part of the Government of the State. But of course, it's 2021, when the situation of the Generalitat was very complicated, another Covid fund, 13,400_million euros, what is it, huh? , because yesterday you responded to my president that there was no, yes, yes, it will be in the general assumptions of the State. Another thing is if they fall back, as they did in 2019, but there will be a Covid fund of 13,400_million euros. An object, which is not an object, but is a 2.2 deficiency recommendation. Anyway, I don't think we'd have to make it if we had this Covid fund funded by the state. I hope they don't make the mistake of trying to issue a debt on behalf of the Generality, because we would pay much more for it. It's better that we fund the FLA, we don't debt ourselves directly to the market, because this... And I understand that... , which is very good for a press release, but we would pay the interests at a much higher price. And in any case, one thing that we also claimed and that we had also switched was that it's keeping the entries on the account. That is to say, despite the fact that we have lowered the entrances, the result of the economic crisis, we have the same beasts, in this case the financing system as if there was no economic crisis, and, therefore, there is no reduction in the contributions of the State and that they were the same equivalents to the year 2020. That he also announced, in any case, the minister, didn't he? The other thing I want to say to you is that at the local level, and that's what I want to put in value..., also the work we've done. We, despite being in government, do not share in good measure how the local world's finances were managed, and especially the Romanesque. They know that we have been fighting, and I think that in the end we have come to a good solution, that it is that the rule of expenditure is suspected, that the objectives of deficit are suspended and that it is allowed the use of the Romans, that it was absolutely reasonable, and, therefore, I also want to put in value the task that our Parliamentary Group of Common We can in this case to the Congress, and also the work that the Mayor of Barcelona has done leading it within the Government. And I would like to acknowledge that openly, publicly, we have disagreed with this from the Government of the State and from the members of the Government. I encourage you, too, when I disagree with your members of government, to say so, less Twitter battles and more government council battles, for example with Hard Rock, that this costs them a little more, right? The other thing that's also very important – and you said it too, didn't you? –: participation in the European foundations of the assemblies. We agree. In this sense I also want to highlight the work we are doing in the European Parliament. Our MEP, Ernest Urtasun, who is the person of the European Greens Parliamentary Group who directly negotiates the conditions of the European rescue fund or the European recovery fund, to be more accurate, is defending a point in the European Parliament than 10% management or co-management as a whole, and I think this is important, right? And finally, also an element that I agree with. In fact, we would practically vote in favour of all the motion because in fact it is what we have always defended, and ultimately it is what the government is doing at these times on the part of the State. Or, I guess, when they wrote the paper, they thought they'd be doing very well, and at the end, so, look, the State is doing what Catalonia has historically always asked for, and so I think I should also put it in value. It's all right, there's a change in economic policy, and at the end, well, then, maybe it's not so much "Spain for us," that I don't say you say it, but some people say it, but Spain, so, look, at the end of the day, the government is rescuing us or helping us in a very complicated situation and it's nothing to recognize it, because that's, well, so, that's fine, and that's what needs to be done. If I'm growing up in a truly federal state, then that's what needs to be done, isn't it? And with the infrastructure issue, I agree. In fact, we are also moving and..., it is also essential that the additional arrangement of the Statute, that there are transfers to Mossos, is complete. Do you know what to do with this, too? Not voting against the general assumptions of the State, because in 2019 there was. There was a transfer of 200_million euros... Yes, yes, there was a transfer of 200_million euros directly from the agreement with United We can, the result of the agreement there was a transfer of 200_million euros, in this case for the Department of Territories, and 150_millions also for the Mossos and 40_million more for the ATM. And then I'll tell them... Miri, yesterday there was an act that was of homenatge to the Antoni Gutiérrez Díaz who said... He always... When he was re-elected secretary general of the PSUC, he said: "I only say three things: they do politics, they do politics and they do politics. I ask you only this, do politics, negotiate, negotiate. We as the Catalan and Catalanist forces obviously also have these demands, and we have some general assumptions of the State that give answer to what Catalonia needs. And in any case, then, we would vote in favour of the motion because that's what we're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.126.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Maria Servent of the Subgroup of the Constituent CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.127.0	Yes, thank you. We in relation to this young man see a constant, don't we? , which is this funding request to the State to deal with this situation of social, economic and health emergency, but what we need more than a reconstruction is a transformation of the current model in which we live. It speaks of the first point of claiming from the Government of the State the transfer of at least €31,765 million from the European Fund created with the covid-19's motivation. Mirin, today I was looking at it, I was investigating exactly why 31,765 and then I found the Economic Reactivation and Social Protection Plan approved by the Government in the Korean Mark, a commission, and I see that the Government has done a political orientation to ask for these money. It speaks of public-private collaboration, of private finance bank exclusively and, therefore, of transferring public money to the private sector to show this situation of instability even though we are at a very concrete time in which to bet for a hundred_per_cent public services; it speaks of a Catalan strategy of public purchase. We agree that public procurement is very important, but we have not just heard its strategy of transferring public money to private. It talks about the EPAs, the Olympic candidacy of the Pyrenees, the automotive industry, EUR 263 million in accounts to diversify production, the deployment of certain projects and, above all, to facilitate exports. Look, all this has been done without counting on Parliament, with an absolute loss of this chamber. Parin de fer politique, de abusing the decrees, of failing to fulfil what this chamber approves in a systematic and explicating way which is the political orientation of 32,000_million euros. It is that this is more than the assumptions that have been approved in the previous five legislatures and you have not spoken to Parliament. I'm sorry to miss this chamber, which the State has already done enough, which for a long time now this chamber seems to be unable to speak of self-determination or of reprimanding the monarchy and you have been making political decisions in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.129.0	Thank you, Vice President. He gave another deputy that the title of the young man gave to hear a certain content, but that the content was different. Certainly I had found him another title, for this young man, which could be perfectly: « Advice I see, which I do not have. This young man has two great apartnesses, he has two great apartnesses: one that urges the Government of the Generality, but clearly, he urges the Government of the Generality to ask, to ask the Government of the State; and then he has a _second apartness, that is that the Parliament of Catalonia recognizes the need for the State to do this, that the State to do that, that the State to do the other. Home, I say, it must be that the Government of the Generality has absolutely no capacity to do things, precisely, to try to deal with the effects of the Covid. I think it's important, don't I? And here, listen, with the first point, I have to agree with the approach that has just been taken from the CUP, that is to say, you say, 'School'm, that they transfer 31,000 and millions of them, that they are the ones that the Government, in a plan of social and economic revival that it has developed between the same Government, but that it has been unable, one, neither to negotiate with the social agents, two, nor to come here to explain to the Parliament, so that they use us, the Parliament, so that we ask the Government of the State for money to do their projects. So, look, this isn't as much about asking, as it is about doing. It is not about asking for money, but it is about making projects that are worthy of the resources to come from these European foundations. Therefore, we will not be voting in favour of this point. Then they also ask us that the negotiation of the Government of the State with the municipalist entities..., you say textually – do not say the proposal, the motion, but you do say it – which is not done, which is not negotiated with the FEMP. But, listen to me, neither do we like the current composition of the FEMP, but it is the representative organization of the assemblies, of all the Spanish assemblies, and this also includes those of the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia. The fact that the Catalan Association of Municipalities did not want to join the FEMP, listen to me, sometimes the independence ideology has these things, doesn't it? , which does not allow them to participate in supra-Catholic entities, which must be the problem they have. And, therefore, we cannot participate either. Mostly we'll give support to the young man, but there are things that obviously we can't give him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.130.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of the deputy Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.131.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, well, the first thing I want to say: not the strange ones that we ask the Government of the State to transfer money, to supplement, when they collect 85_percent of the taxes that are paid in Catalonia, when they have access to the European Union's fund, the Spanish Government, and when they have access to the European Central Bank's funding, so not the strange ones we say that. We'd be happy to do these things directly. And God's faith that we would be much more effective. We agree with his point, when he claims that it is over 31.765 million and we are convinced that, if they are competitive projects, they will be transferred, and if they are valued honestly they will be transferred, because normally when Catalan projects go to the European Union they are able to generate more subsidies, they are able to generate more aid than not participation as the people of Catalonia in the same European Union. And it is necessary that these foundations are managed in the best possible way, that is managed jointly with the business fabric, that it is a business fabric different from the Spanish business fabric, with many more peppers, in contrast to the great enterprises that depend on the IBEX 35 of the Spanish economy or Madrid. It is also important that it is not only spent on the cost of demand, that is to say, it is spent on many of the goods that go to the green economy, to digitalization, but that it is prepared the business fabric, the product fabric of this country, to produce goods in this sense to satisfy those needs. They've talked a lot here, everyone's filled their mouths to ask this young man – the Republican Group asks this young man – things the government doesn't do. Miri, I'll explain it to you: ask the government of the state to invest in Catalonia that it has undertaken to invest. I recall that at the time the Statute of Catalonia already provided that the equivalent of participation in the Catalan economy's GDP is spent on investments. This hasn't been seen or expected. The Department of Economy, Mr. Gragera, the Department of Vice-President and Economics and History and the University of Barcelona have made a study in which they study from the year 2002 until the year 2017 the reversal of the group Fomento, of the directorates general, the public enterprises, the autonomous organizations, all, in Catalonia, respect to which it was supposed, to which it has carried out, to which it has carried out from midjana to Spain, and that which would affect us as a function of participation in wealth, of participation in GDP. Some data. Catalonia accounts for 19_percent of the GDP of the Spanish State, approximately. The investment liquidated from 2002 to 2017 of the Development group was 15_per_cent, and 2010 until it was 12.7_per_cent; it is to say, in euros of 2018, about a thousand euros less each year. In Catalonia the group Fomento executes 78,8_per_cent of what it presupposes. The midjana of Espanya is 85.1. And in Madrid one year they spent 114 percent of what they had supposed, what did you deserve, huh? – that you deserve, that. The 31_percent of which the State has not executed from the Fomento group the period 2002-2017 corresponds to the reversal that had to be made in Catalonia. Therefore, do not suspect them that the Group Republic presents a motion in which it asks that the obligations of the Spanish Government are fulfilled. Mr. Gragera, who says that we should have increased the presumption of salvation, of education, of culture, that we should have worked for people, etc. If this presuppositional deviation had not occurred, if it had reversed to Catalonia what would correspond to it according to the Spanish medium of reversal, it would have touched it, it would have been today, the GDP would be 13.146_million euros higher. And if he had invested himself in Catalonia that would be close to him after his participation in wealth, do you know how much Catalonia's GDP would be today? It would be 23.820_million euros higher, a 9.8_per_cent. And it could give satisfaction and it could give solutions to culture, to health, to education, to social services and to all the areas that the Generality has competitions. Of course, we support the entire assembly of the young man. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.132.0	Thank you, Congressman. When this young man's debate is over, I would like to tell him that the vote is going to be held tomorrow to finalise the presentation of the motions for a resolution of the general debate on the health situation, together with the rest of today's votes. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the regularization of immigrants]] [[302-00236/12]] Let's move on to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the regularization of immigrants, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word the deputy Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.133.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, well, so, this young man's coming up a little late, because it's around the regulation of people in an irregular administrative situation. We would have liked to be able to do so – conditions, obviously, have not been possible... – before the Congress of Deputies is voted through this GNP, which ultimately fell, the proposal to regularize the more than 600,000 people that are currently in this situation throughout the Spanish State. In this young man, moreover, we were not only talking about this, but we were adding a whole series of proposals that the Table of Citizenship and Immigration, here in Catalonia, had presented, and so we added them, and, moreover, thanks to the contribution of various parliamentary groups of the commons, of the CUP and, therefore, of Juntes per Catalunya, I sincerely believe that there is still a very complete young man left, who does not only ask the State but also attacks what we can do here. I can't say the same as Ciutadans, who has presented us with some ideas that really, they have left me very surprised, because either they have no idea of the subject or they're not coming from us, and the two things are hard, because while we talk about regularizing the six-hundred-thousand people who find themselves in this situation in the State, you talk about facilitating the insertion of asylum seekers. So I don't think we've explained it well, or they didn't understand it. But in any case, and it passed to the Congress of Deputies, that the parties of the dreets, of the center, in any case departed in its majority of neo-liberal economic positions, have abstained or voted against this proposal, and I have not just heard it. Because, when it comes to regularizing people without papers, it's obviously a question of historical responsibility, of a humanist question, of a question of social cohesion in this country, but even if we look at it from a selfish point of view, from a point of view of neoliberal perspective and of tips, we would also be interested because a person who is in this country in an irregular situation to win his life only has three exits. One of them is irregular work, which fortunately most of these people are dedicated to this. So, to the cures of the llars, to the walking sale, etcetera. The second option we have is the benefit. The third option left to these people is crime. Therefore, in any of these three options there is no contribution to the economy of this country. So, even from an ample point of view, right? , with the whole parliamentary bow, wanting to regularize these things should be a priority. That's how Rodriguez Zapatero heard it, who in his mandate regularized seven-hundred_ thousand people, and José María Aznar, who during his mandate regularized more than five-hundred_ thousand people. Now there are six-hundred-thousand people. Therefore, I believe that you are voting that this is not because of an ideological, or pragmatic issue, but because of a question of how you think your voters – their voters – are doing this, and that, when we speak that the speech of the extreme right is having all the ideological and political spectrums we speak exactly of this. Because a lot of people might not hear or feel threatened, or because of a conflict of interest that there are people outside, as they say, who come here to work, etcetera. Therefore, this conflict of interests, this poor against the poor that each time has more Europe. I think that's the idea, right? the nuclear part for which the parties voted against this proposal. But, for fuck's sake, it's that, of course, yesterday a report from Iridia appeared in which it said that the Spanish State has spent, since 2014, 812_millions deporting people to their countries of origin. That while the government of Sanchez, therefore, did not want to shut down the arms companies, neither did he let out the rescue ships, which are bringing the sea people from the countries where the bombs that are being made here in Spain are exploding. And, therefore, it seems to me a whole question... I don't know. Therefore, from here, politically, we believe that today we can again show that the regularization of people without papers from here to the Parliament of Catalonia is an issue that concerns us. And, in the same way that we can also approve all this list of proposals from the Citizenship and Immigration Table, expanded, I insist, with the proposals of other parliamentary groups, I would like, with these forty-seconds remaining in me, to highlight two of them, wouldn't I? One is the question of language. Language, as we all know, through the consortium, etc., is a very important tool of social cohesion. And then a theme – that is our responsibility and that of many of the assemblies and here we don't escape from the parties represented in this chamber – that is the issue of not registering, and that seems to me to be a systematic practice in many congregations in this country. We have the example of the Premià de Mar two weeks ago, if I don't recall correctly, that he approved a motion of the whole illegal, in which he said that, well, they would register to whom they looked and to whom they didn't seem to be not. And, therefore, also the proposal in this sense of the UPC to create at least an observer to watch, to attack, to be aware of this practical practice which is given in many joints, unfortunately, so we believe that it is entirely positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.134.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Susanna Segovia of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.135.0	Thank you. We find ourselves with a young man brought to us by the Republican Group who, surely, some Members of this House have to believe that it bothers us, that it bothers us in the commons. Why now that the commons are in the state government, what? Everything we say and everything we've said and said so far. In fact, this morning we heard a lot of this saying that, as our formation is in the Government of the State, it seems that there are things we can't talk about anymore. This morning we heard that we can't talk about human rights this morning because we're in the state government and the state violates human rights, we can't talk about human rights anymore. We also heard about "how do you vote or propose things that the State Government can do? If you're in the state government, then go and tell Pedro Sánchez. So, I guess just like now Republican Left, in this case, presents a motion that tells the Generality what to do, sometimes do it together for Catalonia, or do it sometimes the Municipal Groups of Junts for Catalonia and Republican Left to the different assemblies when they approve motions that address the Government of the Government of Catalonia. So why? Because the fact of being a part of a government, in this case, of the coalition government of the State, does not prevent you, nor does it limit you, nor does it have to make you continue to defend that which you believe in, that which you defend, that which you have in the program and that which you will continue to defend and try to do, as follows, requests which you ask, from all those spaces in which you are and where you have the opportunity to express yourself and defend it, followed by the government of the State, followed by the Congress, followed by the Parliament, followed by the joints, and especially also in the road, each time there is a concentration which, for example, calls for the regularization of people without papers. It has to be possible to ask and it has to be able to defend where we are, because that's where we believe. So, she's not an uncomfortable young woman, she's not. We think it's a young woman who's timely and who, more than that, is necessary. As it is– and it has already been mentioned before the Member Wagensberg – the proposal of law which was presented to the Congress and which signed such diverse groups as the Group Republicà, Junts per Catalunya, the BNG, Bildu, Compromís, More Country, United We Can and In Common We Can. And that, precisely, made a whole series of proposals working with the Border Open collection, which he demanded was to advance towards this regularization of rights. The Socialist Party did not sign it, and neither did it vote in favour, and the proposal was not approved. And we have to say that we are sorry, that we believe that, in this case, the Socialist Party has done us a weak favour, and that it would be worth it if, in some matters, you made a bolder bet to advance towards equal rights and the guarantee of rights for everyone, and especially for those people who are in an irregular situation. We believe that this will work and that it will continue to work, because it is one of the commitments that was also in the coalition agreement and because it is one of the things that we, from the government, will continue to defend and work. And yesterday we felt the Minister Write announce some measures already, and we believe that we need to give clearer signals in this sense. Because we believe that it is true that since the coalition government there has been a response to the health, social and economic crisis different from what was done in 2008 and 2010. We think he's going to keep doing it, that he's made bold bets and signs. In the previous motion some have been mentioned. But it is also true that we believe that there are some fears that further progress and work should be made. And there are things that have been done and that can be done better, and that can be done more. And we've heard about the denunciations, the moratorium on denunciations caused by Covid is important, but it's insufficient because there should be a general moratorium on all denunciations, because we're now seeing hundreds of denunciations on the street. It is true that things have progressed, but it is true that things remain to be done and, surely, the regularization of papers and guaranteeing the rights of people in an irregular administrative situation is one of the things that we have to do and that we will put ourselves there to do where we are. And we'll defend her. We've already said that, and it's been said before, it's a particularly bad week, these last weeks on these issues. For this reason, we believe that the motion is appropriate, as was the proposal presented to the Congress. We still have the deaths we still have in the Mediterranean. We saw the fire in the Mória camp and the inability of the European Union to give an answer and to relocate. We saw how Greece continued to deport in warm, balsas, with a little shade, because at least it did not suffer from the sun, apparently. And also here at home, and it was mentioned before, so, the motion approved for the Junta de Mar, at the instance of the government formed for Juntas for Catalonia and the Socialist Party, where precisely what is done was an illegal motion that reduced the right to control to everyone who, moreover, is a right that guarantees access to other universal rights such as education and salvation. So, no, we don't understand. Therefore, we believe that here, and this is one of the points that we have presented, the Generality must also have a more decisive role in the hour of demanding from the joints the compliment of this law from the coordination areas with the local world that there is to the Presidency Council. But above all it's bad news and we have to say, because the CIE in Barcelona has been reopened. And that's bad news for everyone, because the CIES are finally in prison, we're in prison for people that the only one they have is a lack of administration, because the CIE had shut down and it was a golden opportunity to keep it locked up and because we'd keep asking, one time and another, that the CIES have to shut down. And Mayor Colau asked for it, and Mayor Ribó asked for it, and we think that from all the spaces and from this Parliament we need to insist one time and another: we need to close the CIES.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Juntas Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Parole has the deputy Saloua El Gharbi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.137.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone, counselor, deputies, deputies. In relation to this motion on the regularization of migrants, from Junts to Catalunya we consider that the equal rights of all citizens go beyond what a government says, since it forms part of human rights. Regularization is to legally recognize existing reality and not create a new and parallel of exploitation, segregation, invisibility and social exclusion. People have not left their native lands to live in the submerged economy. These people also have dreams and want to work, pay their taxes, as almost most of the citizens of this country do, and contribute to the development of the place where they reside. To sum up, they want to have a normalized life in visibility and dignity. And in order to fully exercise all their social, economic and political duties and obligations, it is essential that they have a regular administrative situation. Despite all the difficulties, people migrated in a regularized administrative situation and the one they still have not followed by showing signs of the civic compromise also during the pandemic; no one will deny that. And I'd like to remember all the people, especially the migrating women who are working in the realm of cures, to the essential services in general, and also, between the stories of involvement and solidarity highlighted the Aziz, a maintenance of the Raval that made masks for the hospital and has created a food bank for the walkers who cannot work. And people like Aziz, Khadija, Bamboo... are very much, but we have condemned them to invisibility or left them between the hands of the mafias or opportunists or exposed to apophobics. We know perfectly well that not having work and residence permits means living in total vulnerability and not being able to contribute to the social and economic reconstruction that the country would need after the pandemic. And that is why we insist that extraordinary regularization is essential. Moreover, the only way to guarantee the health protection of these people and all around is to make a courageous regulation that allows for universal health care and because no one remains out of basic rights during this health crisis and what may be in the future. For all this, we are calling for a more progressive government to tackle the issue of regularization without allowing it to win the racist report of ultra-rights, and in this appeal also to the groups that are among us, both the commons and the Catalan socialist party. And in relation to the motion we are dealing with, we would obviously vote in favour of it, because we consider that all the issues raised in this motion are a cause for concern and resolution. We're talking about a mountain of people who can't cover with stones. And that the root of all his problems exposed in the motion is linked to the institutional racism of the foreign law, which we have denounced many times, and that since the mark of the European Union it has been said that it does not meet the basic criteria of human rights directives. In relation to the topic of the Father, we are grateful that the Group of the Left has specifically accepted, among others, this theme of addition, because unfortunately there are assemblies, as has been said before, which do not comply with the Royal Decree 1690/1986 of 11 July, for which the Regulation on the Population and Territorial Demarcation of Local Entities is approved in order to give effect to the obligation that everyone has to register 'the municipal standard of which he habitually resides. It seems to us, the next departure from the motion, in relation to the Generality of Catalonia, very uncertain, but we have to take very seriously that this last..., that the Generality of Catalonia..., its policy is conditioned by the competitions that it holds and that it has a limited influence in many areas, above all, by the regularization of the people migrated. But this can help to establish a model of approach and implementation of the different departments to strengthen social cohesion and because the responsibility of any government is to face all inequalities without leaving a person back in a regular and non-regular administrative situation, and especially at this time of the pandemic. And more. And to finish my intervention I cannot, let us say, leave without expressing my solidarity with the very honorable President Torra. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.138.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.139.0	Thank you. We, the Republican Member of the Left, regrettably have not accepted any of our papers, will vote in favour of many of the points of this resolution, of this young man, but I say it from the beginning: they are not credible. I can't believe this is going to take long. It was not long ago, in this Parliament – it was not about immigrants, it was about refugees – we had a group of refugees who gave shortly afterwards to a resolution here in Parliament, in which they voted many points, and we also at that time presented an issue in which, in that matter, it was the duty of the Government of the Government of Catalonia to bring a report to Parliament to control and to see that those measures were actually being carried out. At that time, not just you, other groups too, did not agree and voted against it. And this function of control today is repeated again, today, in the case of the situation of immigrants. We presented a message to where..., because in one of the points, which seems to us to be an essential point, is said to be created, a plan of work must be carried out. And in this plaza of shock, therefore, what is meant is to attend to all these collectivities that are in a situation of vulnerability. And you didn't accept it. Then, if I understand that there is to be a plan of action, it means that there is an emergence. He means he's in a hurry. Then, why don't you accept a message in which it is said that before the end of the year we want a report from the government on what you're doing with this rock board. I don't think all measures are implemented. That is why we asked in the debate, therefore, to do: what proposals are in this plan of action, what have been implemented, what is the premise, to see that there is indeed a willingness to carry out these measures that are between this resolution. And you don't accept it, this thought. That is why I say to him: "They are not credible. They're coherent, they're coherent with the Ciutadans Group, aren't they? Because, let's say what we say, they often vote against it. But they're not consistent with the fact that they really want this to end. And I'm already telling him that in this topic we don't just say "action implementation," because we understand it's a short time, but what proposals do they have on this platform? And I don't think that's a lot of work either, because if the government really has to go through with this game, this very game can bring it to Parliament, and all political groups can see exactly what they're doing, and so it's moving from good words to actions. And we find that in this young man there are measures that are very good, and that urge the Government to activate the policies of occupation – we are totally in agreement – to contract the workers of the cures in decent and legal conditions – we are in agreement – to give support to the educational centres where they have the presence of families of migrant origin and who have difficulties – we are in agreement – that are very good measures. That is why we want this to be enhanced by the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Or when you ask the State to speed up the processes to recognize both university titles and not university people who want to come here. Important, especially for young people. It is a demand that would actually go to social cohesion, to find work, etcetera. They're very good measures. We also felt the question he made, and you said, "We have to listen to these people who are in an irregular situation because it is a question of human rights and it is a question of justice. And we agree, and that's why you're dealing with this vulnerable young community, like young migrants who are in a very complicated situation or the workers of the cures from the ages. But I don't want to finish my intervention without saying, so, like, for example, when we ask for help for the Venetian pensioners who are here in Catalonia, who are a vulnerable group, you vote against it. This is the difference: we here, these vulnerable groups, will vote for it. And I do demand that, not because I ask the Ciutadans Group, all those vulnerable collections that are in Catalonia also have the recognition of all public forces. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.141.0	Good afternoon to all, deputies, deputies. The CUP will support this young man. Also, let's start here by celebrating that Mr Wagensberg has accepted a small, but concrete point, and that is where we will focus our intervention, and through which we will argue why we support this young man. He did. An observer of the municipal padro will be approved today. Why. Because we have a problem and, look, in the previous interventions, that if the Government of the State, that if Left, that if Together for Catalonia, that if the PSC... We have a problem at all gatherings. We have a problem at the Mar Prize, but we have a problem at Figueres. The padro has become a wall of access to rights, deliberately, thoughtfully, calculatedly. The gatherings they're making are not completing the law. Basically. And the arguments they pose about the table are manifest in the form of ordinances that require specific requirements. But it is that the standard of people without a fixed home is contemplated in the law, and must be done. It has to be done, because it's a fundamental question of access to rights, access to health care and access to education. And when the gatherings, I insist, of all colors, what they do is articulate and deploy all an administrative engineering to prevent that from happening, what they're doing is stigmatizing and they're unfolding institutional racism in full. And I don't want to use big words, because I seem bigger. That's who you are. It is condemned thousands, hundreds of veins and veins from all the municipalities of this country, to invisibility, not having access to right, not existing, to live underground. Not to speak, obviously, of the law that sustains it, all folded, the Law of Foreign Affairs, a law that it does is to deepen in this Apartheid in which hundreds and thousands of people live and come from our home. But it's that the question is curious, because there is this Apartheid for right access, but there isn't when it's trying to glue our apples, when it's trying to look after our big people, when it's trying to look after our children irregularly, precariously and almost slavely. In this we don't invisible them. In this we enslave the migrating people. And it's intolerable. The standard should be a country priority; to solve the problem that exists in this country in all access assemblies to the standard should be the first step towards actually moving towards a country that is truly free of racism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.142.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.143.0	Counselor, Members and Members, now the fact is that I would have two options, such as the spokesman for my parliamentary group: one, trying to answer the question itself and the other, the most important debate that has taken place. In the dark times we have it's hard to do all two things, but I try. First of all, respect the motion itself, we have many of the points that we can vote for, there are other points that we will abstain from, because we have the feeling that we share objectives, but it seems to us that some of the points that have been asked of the Government of Spain that certain things are being done, so, they are already being done, perhaps in different forms than they are being asked, but they are already being done, huh? I am referring in concrete terms to the fact that the Secretariat of Igualtat, Migration and Citizenship has opened in its day a line of subsidies to contract people dedicated to the care of large or dependent people, that the Delegation of the Government to Catalonia has agreed with the Secretariat of Migration a protocol for dealing with these petitions with the utmost urgency; that it also respects the approval of titles there has been for the approval of people who have this type of approval pending in the process and that they can be contracted for health authorities; that it is working on the issue of the reinforcement of the personnel dedicated to foreign offices of sub-delegations, etc. I can't stretch out at all, because time runs out and I can't get into the whole detail. But I do want to put up with a question that has focused a good part of the debate, which is the question of regularization. From the outset it is quoted, and we have seen that the texts on which this motion for a resolution is based are also made, the xifra of six-hundred_ thousand people in irregular administrative situation in Spain, and the truth is that we would like to, and we would not like to argue, but we would like to have the amount clarified, because the municipal standard of one generation of 2020 had 5,423,198 people of foreign nationality and the xifra of resident people, let us say, on a regular administrative basis on the same date, according to the figures published by the Secretariat of State for Migration, was slightly higher, of 5,663,348 people. We understand that there may be problems with registration to the host and that there may be situations that are not detected administratively, but up to six-hundred-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands of-thousands. We, in any case, think, and we are from a political formation which, as explained earlier, did not have any problems in previous situations which required it to proceed with extraordinary regularizations, such as, of course, the Government of Aznar did, too – it was also asked to fill in by Mr Wagensberg – but we think that at the present time what it is to reform the Foreign Law. That's what we think we need to do. Minister Escrivá, the Minister of Social Security, Inclusion and Migration, has proposed it, and I believe that the intention of reform is clear when it qualifies, for example, some of the legal ways of accessing residence and work. In the statement of the same minister, he says that it is about a dispersal and complex regime and that the bureaucratic rigidity is enormous, and proposes, among other measures, the comprehensive reform of the category of occupations with difficult coverage or the extension of permits for the search for work in Spain. But that doesn't mean that while you can't reform the foreign law, you can't do things. In fact, various instructions have been issued, ministerial orders during the period of the Covid that made the requirements more flexible in order to renew the permits, for example, the requirements they have to deal with with income. But not just, huh? There have also been auto prorogations, etc. Therefore, and in the minute that remains for me, what I would like to make clear is the political position. Migrations are part of the nature of human societies and there is no law or border that can put up with the teluric force that is stopped when there is a difference of vital expectations as high as that which originates the great majority of forced population movements. Because people, when we're talking about going for economic reasons, may seem, let's say, a free decision, but these economic reasons are often forced by phenomena like climate change, by war, which can sometimes be based on climate change or other disputes over resources, territory, etc. And, therefore, we must assume that our legislation in the matter must have a much more humane focus, effectively. But all the states of the world, also an independent Catalonia hypothetical, have in their constitutions a distinction between nationals and foreigners. It would not be Catalonia's only exception and gives a different legal treatment to each other, and establishes some requirements to enter and work in the country. The question is that rational demands remain that do not place people in bureaucratic traps, from which it is very difficult to get out, or that objectively hinder access to residence and regular work, because then yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.144.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.145.0	... they generate irregularities that are socially and economically very harmful, in the first place, for people who suffer from this situation, but also for the society as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.146.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.147.0	Therefore, in the speeches – I finish, President – in the speeches of the extreme right, it must be placed face to face and then the policies must be adapted to these objectives that we have proclaimed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.148.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.149.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place, we were convinced that this was a young man who was set up precisely to help people who are in a difficult situation at home and to try to help them, but from the presentation made by the post he gave me the impression that he was a young man to attack those who do not think exactly like him and put it on the record, which I certainly regret. The second element. Miri, I've already come to the point that we will vote for some of the points in favour, in some of the others we will abstain, and most of the others will surely vote against them, won't we? And that under, I'd say, two general, generic arguments, huh? First. Catalonia isn't an island country, it's not an island region, is it? We are not only part of Spain, but we are part of the European Union and part of the Schengen area, where people can move with absolute freedom. Therefore, taking decisions here that have effects on all these countries, for example Sweden itself, I believe that doing so unilaterally is irresponsible and that in any case it must be done in agreement between all these countries, right? And this is an important element. And a_second element that I also consider important. Migratory phenomen don't just have a single point of view, they have two points of view. One is the point of view of the receiving regions, but the other is the point of view of the issuing regions, that is, of the origin. And, therefore, these migrations are produced... Home, surely, here everyone can say: "Listen, there is no equal treatment here, there is no right here, there is a right here, there is a right here, there is a right here, there is no right here... Well, have we asked the people who come in whose conditions they are in their countries of origin? Some will be because of economic reasons, but many others will be because in their countries of origin they will be right. And, therefore, the solution that we want to give to migration is not alone through measures that we can take here, but also by measures that can be taken and taken to benefit the countries of origin and to benefit precisely those people who in the countries of origin do not have the necessary conditions to be able to escape their situation. And with this..., I will express it with a phrase that I think they will understand very easily: cooperation in development is not a way of financing process entities, it is a way of helping precisely the countries of origin where migrations are produced.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to position himself on the items has a final turn the Member Wagensberg. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.151.0	Mr. Rodríguez, Europe's life model, Western countries, the great world powers, the global north, is only sustainable generating violence to the global south. Not now, but historically, forever. And that's the only way I stood up, the model of life here. Therefore, it is not a matter of going to help simply a people who by accident are going through it badly. This isn't about an accident. That said, before the legislature came to an end, I wanted to accept some of it and, therefore, I accept it... I have spoken to the reader, it is still possible to do so and, therefore, the third, after listening to his intervention, so I just seem to be able to accept it. Finally, I would have many things to challenge everyone and, therefore, it would be very difficult to do so. Only Mr. Pedret now, when he was talking, right? , that the Minister's proposal to reform the law and that this is a slow process, obviously, only to say that in the regularization of people without papers would not need nor pass through the Congress, that only approving a decree a divender to the Council of Ministers whatever would have been resolved. And, therefore, I would fix or pay attention to this slogan that the Socialist Party has so much launched at this time, which is: "This we are going to overcome together and there will be no one left behind. So, because there's no going back to the Spanish State, it's imperative that everyone has the same equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. I remind you that, like the rest of the motions, we will vote for you tomorrow. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the occupation and socio-occupational conditions of self-employment]] [[302-00238/12]] So let's move to the next item on the order of the day, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the occupation and socio-occupational conditions of self-employment. Presented for the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, to expose it has the parable of the deputy Mr José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.153.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a legend that self-employed people are special beings, who are made of another paste. They are those who do not know what a medical discharge is, nor a stable schedule. For the Administration they are invisible people, because they make no noise, they do not complain within their atomized world, they are used to looking for one's life without anyone helping them. They sail between two worlds, the world of work and the world of business, and I dare say they have the worst of the two worlds. They have incomplete social rights; lack of support when they get sick or when their business is bad; they almost have no choice to a second chance, and they are more vulnerable than commercial societies, because they respond with their own assets and are unable to finance themselves in the face of a financial world that is not prepared to address their needs. But, despite all these drawbacks, the vast majority would not change that way of understanding life, would not change their ability to generate income or create employment. But that whole world has collapsed in the face of a pandemic that undermines their hopes. With a fateful month of March that changed their lives, they found themselves unable to lift the blind. They had confined their clients to their home. The days pass and see how all payments are accumulated each end of the month: rent, supplies and so many others. They find themselves manipulated and with too much time to think. Members of Parliament, take this motion as a voice of alarm, the voice of alarm of the self-employed. And it is an essential part of our precarious labour market, an essential part of our economy. That justifies our questioning and the discussion of the proposals that we are presenting; proposals that try to visualize the self-employed and develop actions within our competence. First of all, the emergency, the emergency. It is our duty to work for a better future, but that future will or will have to happen because the present does not crumble, because the autonomous endure. The self-employed cannot stand by and rely on the promised European funds, which will be very useful – and I don't say no – and essential to improve our economy and improve it strategically, but which are not designed for them. The vital thing for them and for society as a whole is to control the pandemic so that they can resume their activities with all the guarantees. That is why it is important that they have all the necessary protocols to ensure their safety and that of citizens. At the same time, it is necessary to put in place a specific aid plan for self-employed workers so that they do not close down, so as not to lose all that talent and all those jobs. We believe that they must look at the particular situations of each self-employed person, help them with the structural costs, with all the receipts they face each end of the month, whether they are billing or not, help them to complete their income so that they can reach the interprofessional minimum wage, if they have run out of income. And, thirdly, we cannot forget the seasonal self-employed, those self-employed linked, for example, to the world of culture or leisure. Many of them have not even been able to restart their activity, as is the case with the artists or the fairers. From our autonomous community we must do everything possible and abandon the immobilism and paralysis of the current Government, and do so in a coordinated manner with the rest of the administrations so that the aid is complementary and effective, with a basic premise: the autonomous cannot be four months longer than the electoral calendar, cannot be at the mercy of the political instability in which we are immersed certain political forces. In addition, in order for them to exercise their activity and not have to choose between business and care for their family, we must be able to implement immediate aid to the reconciliation of the self-employed worker with dependent children or family members in the face of possible quarantine periods. From here on, the proposals we are presenting focus on improving the conditions of the self-employed. Financing measures, which reinforce the relationship of the Institut Català de Financi, the ICF, with the self-employed, who end up with late payment – the Generalitat should be an example and pay the outstanding invoices we understand that within a maximum of fifteen days, which would mean a very important injection of immediate liquidity. Improve your taxation by using the skills we have, especially in the IRPF's autonomous segment. Proposals, too, to improve their training, especially in the area of management, with a clear bet on online training. They know how to make your product or provide your service very well, but they often lack management skills. And also reorient the tools we have, such as the Public Occupation Service of Catalonia, the SOC. The SOC has to be a useful tool, a modern tool, adapted to new technologies, that accompanies workers throughout their career and also accompanies the self-employed. We also propose to create an office of the self-employed within the SOC, which understands their needs, and that also those self-employed who want to be self-employed again have the possibility to change, because they do not feel comfortable, because it is not their future to be self-employed. Nor can we look elsewhere, nor can we look elsewhere at the problem of false autonomouss. A false self-employed person is a worker in the service of a company that is in a precarious and unfair situation, and we must put an end to this situation. In short, what we are proposing is a series of proposals to put the problem and the situation of the self-employed on the political agenda. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, has the word to defend the papers presented, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.155.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Workers, parliamentary workers, deputies, deputies, honourable councillor... A motion on the autonomous work, a motion on the autonomous work presented by the Ciutadans Group. And before I start, I want to thank Congressman Cano for his willingness to negotiate, his willingness to agree on transactions, and also for accepting a good part of our discussions. Just as I did before with Mr Riera, in the intervention I made in the Education Movement, so I didn't say it when I had the time to do it, and I want to take advantage of it now too to thank him there, because also a good part of the resulting Movement was thanks to the acceptance of various items by the CUP, of proposed items for the Republican Left Group and Juntes for Catalonia. The local workers, you have made a good definition of their legal situation, but again we have to re-indicate that in this Parliament we have little capacity for influence, because the competence, essentially, is of the State. And, therefore, there you can do various things, there you can make important decisions that affect the day-to-day workmen and self-employed workers in our country, who exceed half a million in Catalonia. On the other hand, even so, the Government of the Generality is not in a position to hold; the Government of the Generality has various programs and plans that go in line with the promotion of autonomous work to give also support, no longer only in a conjunctural environment like the present, with the Covid, but also habitually. For example, the youth guarantee programme, which enguany, therefore, has gone from EUR 6_million to EUR 19..., enguany, year 2020, to EUR 15_million. Or, as you well know, the €7.5 million that is also earmarked for the resources of self-employed workers. Or the same support of the Catalan Institute of Finance through Avalis, because, as you know, the Catalan Institute of Finance has a structure that is not specifically focused on these micro-credits that are claimed in this motion and that, with a theme that has accepted, we have reached an agreement, but we can, and indeed can, have a structure that is available..., downstream. Or the capitalization of the company on the part of the SOC in the different programs it also has; or the "Catalonia Emprên" program; or the help for the maintenance of micro-enterprises and also of the local workers, also of the Department of Enterprise. Or, for example, from the Trade Consortium, Crafts and Fashion, which also have a line of help; or, for example, aid for the first installation of young farmers, a sector which has also been badly affected by this crisis and, moreover, a sector which already sees a permanent crisis, practically, and, therefore, that the Covid-19 has also placed the focus in this sector. Or, for example, subsidies in the tourism sector, with many autonomies that also form part of the tourism sector; or you help them to digital transformation, and therefore the modernization of the different activities of the autonomes and autonomes of our country. Or, for example, subsidies for the losses of the cancellations that have occurred in the cultural sphere; or also, directly, for the self-employed workers who dedicate themselves to culture in our country. So, they're doing things, and they're doing good. On the other hand, it is that they are making themselves more competitively limited than obvious, and, therefore, from here we also need to push again this need that from the Government of the State, also in this sense, the batteries are laid. The response of the Government of the State, at first, was deplorable. To cover the share of autonomes in the midst of a crisis and to go back later, and to ask the autonomes and autonomes of the country to return, is a clear proof of the mismanagement that has taken place in this camp on behalf of the Government of the State, but not only of these examples, we have; in many others, of the deployment and development respect the support of the autonomous workers. And I don't want to finish my intervention without making a clear and explicit reference to some other self-employed workers that we have on many of our streets and places, who are the walkers. The walkers are living in a really difficult situation and, therefore, also from all administrations in this sense we need to focus on such finding-solutions. We have already put one on the table, which is the harmonization of the normative differences that affect them and, therefore, we believe that today is also a day to keep them well present and start walking to give response to their petitions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word on behalf of Grup Parlamentari Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.157.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of the definition, to say the least, of the evidence, of which it is an autonomous we fully share the intervention made by Mr Cano and, moreover, we would like to thank him to return to debate and to speak, of the situation of the autonomous, which is usually and more to be spoken of in this situation of pandemic. Today the Minister of Economic Affairs, if I didn't go wrong, was talking about the GDP forecast for the year 2020, which would, I think, fall by 11.2_per_cent. And that which will impact in the first place is precisely in the autonomies, which are precisely the people who are the worker-entrepreneur person, effectively, who coincide in the same person the two characteristics and it is where it will impact in the first place precisely, for this lack of structure. Moreover, you must have seen that the coincidence beyond this one that I have just expressed to you is manifest in the coincidence in most of the proposals that some of us have already accepted from the outset, others we have negotiated. And, therefore, of the twelve concrete points presented by the motion only we shall see that we are obliged, and we shall see that we are obliged, to vote but not to three. The first is point number 1 concerning specific aids, more than anything else because voting-there positively would be denying the reality that on the part of the Government of Catalonia there have been aid programmes. The programme Consolida't continued, the Youth Guarantee programme, doubling the budget. There have also been specific programs of self-employed workers affected by Covid-19 from different backgrounds, from the business consulting firm, from the consulting firm of Treball and Afers Socials, from the cultural consulting firm, from the agriculture consulting firm. And, indeed, as Deputy Jordi Albert pointed out, here we have a limitation of competitions. The main competence in the realm of autonomes corresponds to the State, which derives from this, for example, that we are obliged to vote that we would not – we would have liked to have already voted that yes – for example, in point 6, we ask for a reduction of the IRPF autonomous tram to make a specific deduction for maintaining the activity for those autonomous workers who have not been able to do so. So this, the Government of the Generality is prevented by law. This is a kind of deduction that, despite having the share of cessation of the tax, is prevented from the autonomous communities. We would like to have precisely these tools, these State tools, these normative tools to be able to make this deduction. Therefore, the negative vote is not to the non-necessary of deduction, but precisely that it is impossible at this time for the form of distribution of the powers of the State that you normally defend and that we in change fight for the tools of a similar state. Also in relation to morositude. Here the Generality has a clear specific program and is making an effort and is able to carry the payment to thirty days. That is to say, you certainly ask for fifteen days and we vote that no, simply because of a material impossibility and that it would be voting on something that in no way could be completed. But it is complete and lying very much on the 30th day. With everything they ask for from training, of course, it's already done and it's got to continue doing. Online training has been greatly strengthened. In fact, online training before 2020 was about 15_per_cent and currently logically after Covid is 90_per_cent. The SOC has been strengthened, the SOC immediately put the batteries, it has made available all the processes that were to be done face-to-face, which can be done by phone. It made it easier for all SOC workers to work telematically and currently 80_per_cent of the SOC template can work with teletreball from home, with which the service is maintained. Therefore, in the rest, take from these three concrete points, in the rest that they have raised or we have agreed or were already there initially. And you've made reference to the government's internality. It is true, it would be better for this government, with the pandemic situation, to continue working against the pandemic, working for the specific needs of the local authorities that you have placed on us from the table, but this is not possible, because an unjust sentence, an illegal sentence, a sentence against the right has removed the President of the Generality from his office. If this fact, if this judicial interference again with the political will expressed in its day for the citizenry, realized in the majority of this Parliament and that they gave place to its investiture have not again been violated, obviously we would not find ourselves in this situation of interinitiation and the Government of the Generality will continue and can continue to work, as was its will, for the citizens of this country and specifically for the locals. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.158.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units, Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.159.0	Thank you, President, Vice-President in this case. Thank you, Mr Cano, for your proposal that brings us here today. Our group will tell you that we are generally in favour of the motion that is presented so as to improve the situation of local workers in Catalonia. We are always in favour of motions that improve the situation of the workers, concretely the local workers in our country. But we'd be happy to comment that we liked the original motion more than we liked it. That also says a lot in his favour, but in this case it has been diluted, for our opinion, about how the motion was finally left. I did want to make some comments about some highlights that are important to us, and that we want to make some reminders. About the conciliatory point, a point that we've obviously been flushing and commenting for weeks, right? , wanted to remember in this chamber, because it seems to me important that it is here, that this Parliament approved in the general policy debate urgent aid for parents and seas who have children in quarantine. This Parliament has already approved an aid in this sense with the votes of the chamber, except for the votes of the Government. With which, there is already a parliamentary mandate because this pulls forward. Moreover, the government signed a social agreement with employers and trade unions where this aid is explicitly withdrawn and the compromise to put it on the market. The government has two clear mandates to do so, one from Parliament and the other from the social agreement with employers and unions. And I ask myself, and I take advantage of the counselor, that I want to say hello, what else do I need to do to the councillor for Labour and Social Affairs to get her out? What more do we have to ask from Parliament than a parliamentary mandate to get it out of the way? President Tora has made this subject a great flag, but the mandate he has today from this Parliament and social and economic agents seems not to like it, or the pressure we have seems to make deaf people. And that's why we're going to abstain at this point. Not because we don't agree, but because it seems to us that it's already approved and I can't approve it again, and because we have the risk that the resolution that had already been approved by a broad consensus is lowered, and also the mandate of social and economic agents. With regard to the point of formation of autonomes, from our group it is intended to convey that it is a very and very important theme achieved in this chamber, that it is a topic that had been dealt with in a very small amount at the present time. We believe that it is a subject that needs to be enhanced much, with the current context still more surely. Put them on the abst online, and then offline too when you can get back to normal, right? Why do we have autonomes, many of us, many of them for one will, let's say, sometimes renegade, end up being autonomes, right? And they must be prepared to face the world of self, which is a very hard world, and that they must also be prepared to face it. It is true that they have proposed to their young lady that we do not share her final wording, because we will continue to push in a bit, do we not? , and it seems to us that it does not bring much to the parliamentary debate or mandate that we could do to the government. But in any case, we know that the source of the source was positive to try to keep working for the autonomous. And there is a theme that wanted to put up with a little bit more, which is the theme that makes reference to SOC. He knows it's a subject that especially to me, let's say, I liked in this Parliament to deal with it deeply, right? You made a phrase that should be so, and unfortunately it isn't. You said: "The SOC should accompany the autonomes. It's supposed to be that way. But he knows that the Occupational Service of Catalonia, as we all know, has an important col·lapse. We all want, obviously, to review information systems, itineraries, which are modernized, but we believe that there is a step ahead. And to me there is a doubt, in this debate, that is: how can we address the transformation of this service with the current situation that the service has? A situation that before the pandemic, and with a context of growth and reduction of the weather, was already, so to speak, precarious as to the conditions of human resources and also of their services. And I'll give you an example, to illustrate this col·lapse, which is not thought to be a subjective opinion of this Member. The ILO sets in a few eighty the number of actuates that each occupation technician manages. This version allows you to provide a good service, design custom itineraries and increase the insertion of the stops, and this is basic for it to be so. Well, let's see how many times there are to the offices we have from SOC to the territory. We'll make a living for Catalonia. In the Valley of Aran, fortunately, they have a rate of one hundred and fifty for each technician, almost twice as much as the ILO does, and it is the office that has the lowest rate of all. But if we continue to cross the territory, we can go to Barcelona, where the office that has the best rate is close to the six hundred stops for technicians, seven times more than the ILO does. But if we go to Móra d'Ebre, to Premia or to Granollers, we have offices where each worker of the SOC up to 1,700 accrues, 1,700 for each worker. Multiply to win the ILO ration. And I want to remember that these figures are before the crisis, when there were fewer stops than are expected today. I wonder how they're supposed to be right now when they come back to re-open. I think this is important, we share it in this Parliament, because before we make any transformation we need to be aware of where we are right now, and we certainly don't need to be deeply aware to start solving it. And lastly, he wanted to make a reference to the deputy of Esquerra, deputy Jordi Albert, because he made a reference to the increase in the Youth Guarantee Fund, and obviously this deputy is happy, and he is deeply glad, as you know. But now I only hope that this government will be able to fully implement them, because it would not be the first time that we have a youth guarantee fund and we must return it to Europe. Since it wouldn't be the first time, I hope I didn't pass again. And I want to end with thanks to Congressman Cano, especially the work that autonomous people do every day to raise the blind.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position he has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.161.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, who came out for a while. In Catalonia there are around five hundred and a thousand people in self-employment, a heterogeneous and very diverse sector. It is obviously necessary for the administrations to pay attention to this group, which has also suffered great damage in this pandemic. I agree with Congressman Cano when he defends that this type of job must be protected, dignified and cared for as much as anyone else. However, we all know that the motion is certainly on wet paper today. One, by the generality of the motion, and even more generic after the transactions made by Citizens with the Government. And two, because unfortunately the electoral measures of the Government negatively affect the social agenda of Catalonia. Very disappointing also the intervention of Councillor Chakir during the interpellation to this motion, in which he gave us a descriptive exposition on the sector of the autonomous in Catalonia. He threw his balls out, yes, as always, with a direction to attack the Government of the State, and specifically the Ministry of Labour, which would already like Councillor Chakir and this Government, they would already like the same merits that the Ministry of Labour and Minister Yolanda Díaz have. However, we did not make any presentations about the road map that the Treball Councillor has, nor the specific plans they have proposed to make. Therefore, each can draw its own conclusions. Clearly, we interpret them that there is no plan. Despite the fact that I have brought this debate, I must say that this is a very generic proposal, which does not respond to the diversity and homogeneity of this group, which requires deepening and specification in the answers. I agree with what Mr Cano said on the day of the interpretation that the municipalities are doing more than the Generalitat itself. Nothing more has to be done at the Barcelona City Council: strengthening the business finance service of Barcelona Activa, calling for aid to finance projects that boost the neighbourhood economy, subsidies for the cultural sector, aid for the rental of commercial premises, a package of measures for the digital transformation of the commercial fabric, a shock plan for the taxi sector, among other things, in the face of the measures of the Government, which spends more money in the media campaign than in the aid itself received by the autonomous people of Catalonia. Having said that, we consider it important that the Government of Catalonia implement as a matter of urgency a specific aid plan for those self-employed and self-employed who have suffered the most in the crisis of the Covid-19, such as workers linked to the cultural sector, entertainment and trade fairs. Obviously, administrations must be an example and break with lateness, and even more so when it comes to payments to SMEs and self-employed people. Also important, and we have been defending for a long time, the need for an integral transformation of the functioning of the SOC and, why not? , which can be given attention to self-employed persons from these offices. On the Labour Inspectorate, in order to be able to carry out information activities or carry out campaigns to eradicate false self-employment, a greater workforce of labour inspection is needed. Catalonia is well below the ILO recommendations on labour inspection. There is an urgent need for a drastic expansion of human resources in the Labour Inspectorate of Catalonia. Without that we will continue to have great shortcomings in this matter, and unfortunately it is the most precarious workers and many self-employed who are harmed. The Counsellor of Treball knows very well that this struggle will not be possible but we increase human resources in Labour Inspection and that this happens is also in his hands. Soon, one of the great advances in this field will be made thanks to the Law of Riders that is working the Ministry of Labour, which we are sure will end an important part of the problem of self-employed fakes. But we are aware that much more needs to be done for eradication, but I suppose the Councillor and this Government are not waiting for all the work to be done by the State Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.162.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.163.0	Thank you, to intervene from the escó. I have been given the opportunity to give an answer to some of the questions raised by the spokesman for the commons, but I will not do so. In order to be able to intervene simply for the reason that today we are being raised from the Ciutadans Group. Look, you call them "self-employed conditions of work, and we have to tell them that on the content or the subject matter of the same young person, that's why we don't have them. But we don't want to move it like a toilet in the proposed group, all the contrary, we don't have it because we can't have it, because that's the regulatory essence of the autonomous rule, so this country doesn't have any skills. And, therefore, let's go, look at the Civil Code, figure of the autonomous, Spanish Civil Code, cannot be competent of the Catalan Civil Code. Let's see where the autonomous regulation depends and find ourselves that it is exclusive competence of the State. And we're going to see where the autonomous social security framework or regime is regulated, and it's the exclusive competence of the State. Therefore, it is not a matter of making a toilet for the group proposing but all the contrary, to be able to express and visualize that our country has no skills to regulate what ends up determining what is the natural of the autonomous and the conditions of the autonomous work. We also say this in order to be able to express our position in relation to the subject matter of the motion, which is indeed to be palliative measures, and we also say it without any kind of toilet but for the situation we have in the autonomous work, for these workers and these workers. Of the eleven points in the motion, we said that we would vote in favour of eight points, and we wanted to devote the time of our intervention to the final part, to explain the three that we would not vote in favour, and why. We will not vote in favour of the first point for a very simple question, which is that they make an inclusion of which the autonomous society is called, and for this parliamentary subgroup this is not an autonomous work, it is a framework of social security, and therefore we will abstain. Nor will we vote in favour of going on a regular basis..., you are, in fact, manifesting it in the literal, "a reorientation of journeys, in point 10, because you speak of this reorientation of journeys, but as we do not have clear in what sense serious, therefore, we will abstain. And we will vote against the specific point 6, which is what makes reference to the IRPF. And even more so that there is competition or no competition, and we do not set it up with respect to the autonomic tram, which is already clear to us that they are talking about the autonomic plan, but about other discussions, we have to say that there are fewer tickets, they will pay more, and therefore it is not a matter of paying less than changing those elements that determine what they pay, and therefore we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, also des de l'esco, Mr Santi Rodríguez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.165.0	Thank you, Vice President. In this legislature there was a committee on the study of autonomous work, precisely, and we presented the conclusions before this plenary last July, at the end of last July, conscious, and so we said in our interventions, that circumstances had changed a lot in relation to when the sessions of the committee on work were held and when those conclusions were adopted. But I think this fills in the fact that, precisely, the autonome is a figure that we already have in mind, precisely because it is a named collection, it is a diverse collection, there are different types of autonomes, and it's a collection let's say, low, mostly low, right? , and with a specific problem, and therefore deserves the attention of this Parliament in that committee of study and also in the final conclusions. If before the pandemic we were talking about the fact that it was a poor collection that had many needs, with the pandemic it became even more evident this fever. Unfortunately, many of the..., many of the autonomies that were there before the pandemic, are no longer there, because they did not live up to their projects, and not because they did not do so badly because they found themselves in a surging circumstance that forced them to abandon their project. And that's what we have to try to avoid. With those who remain now and who continue in a situation of fever, fruit that they cannot develop their task or that they can develop it with limitations, which is in most cases, they require all of our support and require all of the effort on the part of administrations and governments so that they continue in the market, they continue alive and can continue their projects. Not for a simple will of solidarity, but because they are an important part of our society and an important part of the economic activity of our society. That's why our group will support all the points of this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. In order to pronounce on the papers, the deputy José María Cano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.167.0	Thank you. Well, first of all, what I want to do is thank you for the contributions that Junts per Catalunya and Grup Republicà have made to us. I recognize that it is always easy to work with Mr Jordi Albert and Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós. I therefore thank you for your contributions. Some of us have accepted them, others have been able to reach a compromise and two of us have not reached an agreement, despite trying to do so. In one, because we understand that it is essential to set a short time limit for the implementation of all these aids, and because we understand that there cannot be two collectives left out: the mutualists and, despite what Mr Aragonés said, the self-employed companies – many of them have the same precariousness as an self-employed worker, because their companies are neither large companies nor because they have a weak structure. And at another point because we understand that there is a need for an effective liquidity injection. And that's why we're proposing to lower the Generalitat's average payment period from forty-five days to fifteen days, which would be a real injection, because it would mean, I understand, almost 800 million euros of liquidity injected into society, let's say, into companies. We understand that in these matters it is up to all of us to row together and I understand that what makes their contributions possible is to make them more viable, I want to understand, at least, and agility to the proposals we are presenting. In short, when we vote tomorrow, good measures will be adopted for self-employed workers and that is why I do encourage them to exert pressure from their parties, those who support the Government, so that these measures will be put in place as soon as possible. Some comment. I don't have much time, but to the gentleman at the PSC tell you that, of course, here the difference is that family conciliation is now written in black on white by groups that support the Government. In addition, the word "immediate" appears. I therefore understand that the compromise is that such conciliation aid should be immediate. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. I'm guessing this young man's vote is gonna... [[The Counselor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families asks to speak.]] I've got a vortex on the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.169.0	In a very short way, however, in respect of the work of many people, because we know how the system works, comment that the struggle against false autonomies is the responsibility – and does very well – of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which is the responsibility of the State, and for which we do not appoint inspectors. And I think it's necessary to work rigorously when we talk about such important issues. All right, all right, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.170.0	Thank you. If someone wants to step in one or two, but in principle... [[José María Cano Navarro asks to speak.]] Why ask me the word? To answer, Mr. Cano?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.171.0	To answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.172.0	You gave it to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.173.0	Won't they come back? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.174.0	I'll be right back, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.175.0	Just say that we're asking for an informational task, and that's what we can do from here, and we can... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, isn't it? I can perform controls. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, he told us that this proposal doesn't affect the inspection.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.176.0	We're not going into the debate, please. Thank you. If anyone... [[Pol Gilbert Horcas asks to speak.]] Mr. Gibert, briefly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.177.0	Thank you, Vice President. Just to remind the advisor that in places where there is less competition in inspection, such as, for example, Balears, there are joint campaigns between the Administration to dance and also the State to be able to fight against this type of thing, with which I don't think the bundle should drain, as is said popularly, but work together because this is a reality and do it decisively, not seek excuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-08-6303.178.0	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Pause.]] So, as I said before, I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to make him sell out tomorrow. And they suspect the session till tomorrow at nine.
