ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Decree-Law No 45/2020 of 17 November on transitional and extraordinary authorisation to continue the provision of the technical inspection service for vehicles]] [[203-00069/12]] And we do, as I agree, with the seven-point order of the day, that is to say, the debate on the validation of Decree 45/2020, of 17 November, on the transitional and extraordinary empowerment to continue the performance of the technical inspection service of vehicles. In the first place, and as provided for in Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Business and Knowledge Adviser will intervene to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. So, counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.2.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. We are here to discuss the validation of Decree Law 45/2020 of 17 November on transitional and extraordinary empowerment to continue the performance of the technical inspection service of vehicles. As many of you know, this is a case that goes from far, because we've been going to the back of this topic for years. They also know that I'm just three months old that I'm a counselor, and therefore, I've tried to deal with this situation in the fastest and most direct way. You know what the end of the technical vehicle inspection is. This inspection is intended to complete the required safety and environmental conditions. The ITV, the service, has a mandatory character. It is of general character, and this means that the Administration is responsible. Therefore, ITVs are an essential service that cannot fail to lend. And in Catalonia we have sixty stations that provide this service: fifty fixed, god of furniture. These rears, mobiles, for tractors, mopeds and agricultural vehicles. And there are five operators, one hundred and twelve inspection lines, and the year 2019 provided 3,300,000 inspections. A 20_per_cent of these inspections detected hard-type defects that could be retouched: lightning, wheels, contaminant emission, etc. 80_per_cent of the vehicles were in good condition. What's the situation in the sector? The ITV sector, as you know, has a high degree of legal conflict, which is due to its judicialization, which affected the model change process started in 2010. So now he's been wanting to move from one model of administrative concession to another model of administrative authorization on a regular market. After different resources from some operators, the development of this model is incomplete today. Sentences resulting from this legal conflict have left the service in a situation of legal insecurity. After various sensations that forced the reformulation of the ITV concession system, it came to a situation that might be considered to be suspicious, and that would regulate the service and do it immediately. That's why we're here today. While the law is not done – because you know that we are working and that we are facing some elections – the Department of Business and Knowledge has designed this law decree, which they intend to serve as a bridge while not approving their own law, and we have set a term of about fifteen months. You already know that, moreover, the President of Catalonia has been disqualified. And, therefore, neither the Law of Science, nor the Law of Commerce, nor the Law of ITVs, therefore, can be dealt with as we would have liked, with an ordinary and normal procedure, can we not? But, well, we've tried..., sometimes... to be counseling a few months and giving a sense of the calendar in which you say: let's go for work and go to try to unlock fears that, for the reasons that follow, they carry years blocked, right? And, in this sense, we were able to unlock the transfer from Boí Taüll station to General Railways. We were able to approve the accounts of the Circuit de Catalunya and negotiate the renewal of Formula 1. We were able, too, to unlock Idiad's reversal, which was also put to rest years, and that, therefore, has been positive, because we donate, to this basic infrastructure of the Lower Penedès..., we place it at the European front to prove, as you know, that it lends Idiad. Therefore, we have tried to close our fears that, for the reasons that follow, they carried many years in silence. Now, for what it seems, therefore, for different groups of this chamber, the fact that we are now carrying a decree the bridge is not enough. And for this reason, to give credibility to the transition of this decree, we presented it in parallel to a memo from the preliminary draft law. And yesterday the public consultation of the preliminary memorandum of the preliminary draft law regulating the legal regime applicable to the provision of the technical inspection service of vehicles in Catalonia began. The first objective of the consultation is to have the proposals and contributions of the citizenry, as you know, respect the definition of the model of the provision of the ITV service in Catalonia. The second objective is to give legal certainty to operators who act or want to act in this area of inspection. And the third objective is to establish a coherent model that fits the European standard mark. Well, so, that's the situation. And the objectives of this preliminary draft law are to ensure the quality of the provision of the ITV service, to guarantee the legal security of this legislation, to ensure that the service is provided sufficiently throughout the territory, to guarantee the free choice of operators by the users, to reduce unjustified administrative burdens, and other reasons that we might find. Therefore, I call a new law that rules in an integral way this public service of ITVs. But, as we are functioning and there are some choices – after seeing how much wheat, so, to form government – we understand that this is a decree of the bridge that tries to give legal certainty while there is no approval of the law, which we hope can be made as soon as possible in the new legislature. This decree does not give competitive advantage to anyone; it only wants to be a temporary umbrella because it can continue to serve this service with maximum legal certainty. Therefore, it is for this reason that I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.3.0	Thank you, Counselor. Let us now go to the interventions of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups to make their position. And, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.4.0	Councillor, Members, Members, we must insist another time that recourse to the instrument of the decree can only be justified for its urgency. And, once again, we have to say that the motive for which you ask your approval is not considered, nor of good manners, urgent. We thank the government that, one week before, we met to explain to us why this decree is law. We do not doubt the good faith of the people who will attend, but unfortunately we have to criticize that, once again, we meet to explain to us the policy of consummate facts of the Government. The motivation behind this decree was that the new Director General, who had been appointed by the new Councillor, Mr. Tremosa – we have to assume..., continuing the secular tradition of purging political leaders after purging the Councillor, regardless of how much Parliament is left and whether the changes can really bring knowledge and efficiency to the management of the Councillor –..., it was, as it were, that this "pasti" had been found in a jail and that, as there was nothing else to do, that it was a decree to get out of the way..., that when it was incorporated, it began to look at what is there, and one of the things that is found, you see what happened, the subject of ITVs, something that was haunted. And, you see for where, it's decided to go..., via..., using the government's preferred system: the law decree. The Director General's reasons for which he told us... were that he wanted to sleep peacefully. Here, personally, the one I started having I was unsound. Why should the Director General have problems with the issue of ITVs? Malsons..., because the situation of the ITV is not a new issue, it is a subject that has certain antiquity, since it starts in Decree 30/2010, which approves the Rules of Deployment of the Law 12/2008, of industrial security, that establishes a territorial division that seems, so we understand, to which they have the pharmacies to open new offices in the territory. And Decree 45/2020, which approved the territorial plan of nine technical vehicle inspection stations in Catalonia for the period 2010-2014, together with the IUE Order / 279/2010, which regulates the public competition for access to the authorization of nine ITV stations..., this has entailed, according to the same department, a significant legal conflict, and the Supreme Court has annulled two of the requirements of Decree 30/2010: one, relating to the maximum market share of each company or group of authorised enterprises, and the other, relating to the minimum differences between the technical inspection stations of authorised vehicles to one company or group of undertakings, issues related to and linked to competition. The Supreme Court also annulled the second additional provision, which allowed to be used, for carrying out the inspection tasks which corresponded to them, the benefits and the rights of the previous concessions, which had to be reversed to the Government of Catalonia. The alleged operators were obliged to pay the Government of Catalonia an economic counter-performance for the use of the goods and rights of the old dealers, for which the Supreme Court also annulled Order IEU 468/2010 of 27 September, for which the economic counter-performance for the use by the holders of the technical inspection stations of the goods and rights reversed from the old administrative concessions is regulated. But it is not thought that this ends here, I understand why the Director General could not sleep well, because the Supreme Court has also annulled the Order IEU/279/2010 of May 7, for which the call is opened and the bases governing the public contest to access the authorization of new technical inspection stations of vehicles provided for in the territorial plan approved by Decree 45/2010 of March 30. The Supreme Court considers that, to the extent that Order IEU/279/2010 of 7 May, including conditions and requirements laid down in Decree 30/2010 of 2 March..., decrees the use, you see, also to be annulled. By the end of the year, the territorial plan has expired, as its temporality in the period 2010-2014 is defined. Yeah, they felt good, that didn't feel like 2014 anymore, and, you see, we're 2020. Since 2014, we have ended up in this Decree Law, 45/2020, which decrees that it is nothing more than that which, in matters of rugby, we call an "up and under". It is true that there is a scandalous dangerous situation given for the current legal situation, since, on one side, the authorized operators, in agreement with the Order 279/2010, of 7 May, have cancelled the authorization and could not continue to act, and, on the other, the former authorized operators in the new regime could not continue to use the benefits and rights of the previous concessions to carry out the inspection tasks, which would jeopardise the continuity of the provision of the ITV service to Catalonia. This legal situation does not justify the circumstances of extraordinary and urgent need for the decree to be made. If they are, they've been there for more than four years, and all this time the government has preferred to play witchcraft, and we've all seen how it ended in Gandalf. The government, as on many other issues, has been indolent and incompetent not to comply with the management of its obligations, and has preferred to blow up pigeons, enchantments of four rals. And now they come with stomachaches and we all have to run. But, you see, for these fears they will not count on us. We have shown that, when measures were adopted to facilitate the management of the pandemic and the crisis caused by it, we were responsible, and, although many measures appeared to be insufficient, they were better than anything else and we helped to get there. Even though we have offered our hand, we have not had any government gestures and we have learned of the measures when they were already approved. Well, it's the government's power to do things like this; they've used the authority route instead of seeking consent before enacting many of the regulations that have been approved. We don't think it's the best way to rule, but it's what you've chosen. Asking for approval of this decree alone is justified by his willingness to leave things the same as they were, because they're already fine. If you really cared about this subject, you'd have fixed it long ago, and now we wouldn't fix your incompetence with a law decree that doesn't solve anything. If you really were willing to fix this situation, you would have brought this law to your final disposal, which will regulate the new legal framework of the general vehicle inspection service. We all know, sadly, from experience, how they complete their own decrees, and that this supposed obligation to present this law in a maximum term of fifteen months is dumb paper. We all know the suspicion that generates any topic related to ITV. We all know how the Pujol family put their raw bunches on this subject, precisely linked to the ITV contests and the design of the new map of the ITV stations. We cannot accept that, another time, there is no shadow on these processes. And, therefore, we demand that it is rules at once and forever on this issue and that it is done in a correct way, not correct and come to us that this issue now, after so long, is urgent. For all these reasons, we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.6.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members, the Councillor said: the technical inspection of vehicles is mandatory for the law throughout Europe. We would not argue that technical inspection is essential for safety and for environmentally friendly conditions. Nor shall we discuss its binding character. Now, this very obligation, the fact that we are ahead of an obligation that, moreover, has a regular price..., we are ahead of a captured market. And over the years we've seen – I think we've seen it all – how this regulation has been a source of conflict. I'd call it cowardice, wouldn't I? Also, some triffijocs we've noticed, not just in Catalonia, huh? In the case of Catalonia, even some illustrious Member ended up before the courts and had a conviction. The regulations governing ITVs in Catalonia have been the object of various resources over the years. In the recent period we find that there have been disputes between the European courts, because the rule ran counter to the Community rules on the services of the European internal market, and afterwards there have been judgments of the Supreme Court, which annulled the entire tendering procedure. With all due respect, we're ahead of a legal insecurities mark. But we don't like how the government is trying to resolve the issue, with this decree in the penultimate plenary of this legislature. It looks like a little bit ahead, doesn't it? And someone's gonna fix it. Call a new law. I'm sure the counselor has already mentioned that. I imagine that the Members who support the Government at the length of the intervention will also say to us: "Well, no, it is that there is an additional, the additional first, which speaks that in fifteen months the Government that comes out of this electoral process must bring a law to Parliament. Today, my colleague, Congresswoman Alicia Romero, accompanied me to this plenary. She'must remember perfectly, from that meeting that we held the year 2016 with the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mr.Jordi Baiget, who explained to us that one of his government priorities was to make a new law regulating the technical inspection of vehicles. Count: from 2016 to the end of 2020 have passed one, two, three, four years, and they bring us a decree law to the penultimate Ple of the legislature. What I might say is that, in the eyes of this parliamentary group, for these four years they have done nothing. Or let me hide in another way: we have the suspicion that lobby pressures have been put in place so that they do not want changes in the model. They will say, "No, no, that's not it. Let me think about it, huh? Because in the background we're talking about the model. Mirin, Germany, forty-thousand points of technical vehicle inspection; all of Spain, about five hundred, approximately. Let's take a German land and compare it to the quartet given to us by the councilman a few days ago: a six-year-old in Catalonia. They divide forty-thousand points into Germany or Germany– can we talk about other European countries, huh? – and we'll see that we're talking about the model. In Spain and most autonomous communities we are ahead of a strong intervention. In fact, in the last royal decree law that tried to clarify this issue at the level of Spain the year 2017, the National Commission of Markets and Competition, among its recommendations, already talked about that it wanted to make a revision of the regulation in a more flexible sense and that it encouraged competition in benefit..., of whom? So for the benefit of the users, right? That is to say, as we facilitate the entry of more operators, as we also avoid possible anticompetitive practices between operators, which ultimately harm consumers. I'm going back to the final disposition first, aren't I? , this fifteen-month period to present a draft law governing the new legal framework. Our parliamentary group does not deserve confidence, because this government, every time it has convinced it, has failed these arrangements that you mark them at the time of presenting bills in Parliament. The list is very long, these last years. The only thing we agree with the councilman and the government is that we need to guarantee continuity so as not to add more insecurity to it. And the way not to add more insecurity to it is to make a law and bring it to Parliament, debate it between parliamentary groups and approve a new standard framework and a new model. The compromise of our parliamentary group is that, among the legislative priorities that we have from the 14th of February, when this change is produced, which, from my point of view, needs Catalonia..., when we have a government that is not spent all day looking and pointing out the moon, this must be one of the legislative priorities of the first year and a half of mandate. And let's macabar, because that fixes a little which is our position according to the model. Today, by chance, while I was making the first coffee of the day, there fell to my hands an article that was published a few days ago – I think last week – by Professor Antón Costas, in which the value of competition is claimed. I also resell her, and I resell her from the left, don't I? , because private monopoly concessional capitalism is far removed from the principle of risk and the chance of moving the market. For my part, you can already see that my parliamentary group will not support this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the return for Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. You see, it's hard to find a private public space headed by the Administration of the Government of Catalonia so poorly managed or so conflictual that it has given so many curses to the citizenry and public administrations. I think it's hard to find such a bad case, that things have been bad for so many years, and, above all, that they've been kept in a lock when they've been bad for years, years and years, to see if the pace of time, somehow, makes this problem work out. And the decree that you're presenting to us isn't even the solution, but it's a little bit forward, to see if anyone, from here fourteen months, goes and puts a solution on the table. About ITVs in this country we've seen everything. Surely, the most well-known, the ITV case, which led Mr Oriol Pujol to accept two and a half years in prison for, among others, fixing public awards in ITV station competitions in this country. But, behind this case, or parallel to this case, there have been eight sentences, eight sentences of the Supreme Court, which basically is to dismantle the model of ITVs regulated or recognized by law in Catalonia, and these are the eight sentences that today have brought us to the penultimate plenary of the legislature, so far. And it's that the model of ITVs in Catalonia is, as a minimum, allegatory. There's been a regulation that's been dismantled from court hearings, and what's left now is a legal void. And now they come, just days after the end of the legislature, with a very simple proposal, which is: given that during all these years, from 2014 until here, and from the judicial judgments until here, we have been watching the train pass, as cows do when grazing, without doing anything, we ask you now, at the penultimate plenary of the legislature, an act of faith. An act of faith that basically does what it does is: "Do you see all these awards that the court has dropped? So now we validate them for the law and they're back to being legal. And I think that this, beyond a point of a little bit forward, that, moreover, solidarity the responsibility over the model to the parliamentary groups I am asking for support, does not suppose any solution and is nothing more than a bad stick, plus, we understand, because the proposal that you are making is not admissible. And it is not admissible because it is based on an act of faith: "You approve this decree, according to which the awards that have been dropped for the Supreme Court become legal again, and I promise that 15 months from now someone will come, make a law and solve the problem. Home, you can't compromise or be a counselor in three months' time, which is the 14th of February. But it's that, besides, this temporality that supposedly recedes the decree isn't even as legal as it is. Do not say: « From here fifteen months these awards that today we recognize temporarily for you cease to have legal character. No, if there is no law in 15 months, these awards remain in force. Because the timing doesn't affect the auctions, but there's an additional arrangement that you say..., which would be good if the government came in on the 14th of February solved this in less than fifteen months. It would be ideal, but it's not legally binding. And I believe that this requires, for the rest of the parliamentary groups, an act of faith that we, in particular, are not willing to give them. And we're not willing to give them -- the phone book because your government has history. I believe that if today we collect all the laws that have been approved, and all the decrees that have been approved, where there is an additional transitional arrangement that says: « We will regulate this in less than fifteen months by decree or « We will make a new law that rules this specific distance, etc.... The history of incompliments that I see in the head is quite wide: the Law of polygons, the law of residue, the law of energy transition, the law of science, all the decrees that are intended to deploy the laws that follow closed in a lock since 2014, since 2015... And in this case, we have to do an act of faith and believe that you, that you cannot even guarantee that three months from now you will be advising, fifteen months from now you will have made a law because you are already the first project on the table. We believe that you are not able to guarantee that it is going to be a law that rules this sector, and that, therefore, the decree is a point of little forward without the day that it does not solve the problem of origin. And I understand that you can say, "I've been a counselor for three months and I've done what I can. We understand that. We don't even say there's bad faith in what you've done. I understand that you came to the department, there was this problem in a jail, the legal service report that you had to make it easier for us – and we appreciate it – and that you tried to put a piece in it, but this piece requires us to have a confidence that we are not willing to give. And we are not willing to lend it because we do not share the solution that is proposed, because we do not share that the solution does not even have a time limit that makes the next government the clock play against it, because it has a limit date on these concessions, which have been annulled by the court, cease to be legal, and, therefore, legally binding, and because its history of incompletions as a government does not generate confidence as to believe that, even though you continue to be counselling within fifteen months, you will complete the terms. And so they can't sign a blank check that doesn't even bring a solution that's been managed and a continued job drop. And what will remain, therefore, for the next parliamentary term is to place ourselves in debate as to which model we want of ITVs in our home, and, therefore, which public model we want to build for the performance of a service that is of general interest, and which, therefore, must have public guarantees for the exercise of this service. And this will be the task of the next legislature. So much good is done before fifteen months. But what we can't sign today is an act of faith without giving a natural letter to what the courts have declared illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.10.0	Neither Bilboko portuko zamaketariekin bat nator. Gift support to the port of Bilbao stowers. I have to give them support, among other things, because we have an employer who does not want to negotiate and who does not want to comply with the regulations, and who, moreover, is worth it, or tries to be worth's, of squirols, of the Civil Guard, of the Ertzaintza and of the political support of that regionalist party that now governs the Basque Autonomous Community. And I also support the gift because the workers have always been examples of work dignity, of wanting what they are asking for now, that it is that the workers have the same working conditions, and, therefore, that today they carry fifty-six days of vacation with a specific demand: negotiation. Negotiation and agreement, that's how you get social security and how you get rights. It is possible that someone now says: "What does this have to do with what we are discussing today? So look, you serve of general interest, you both: the estibe and destitute, manipulation of goods, for a band, and also the ITV, serve of general interest, in the terms, certainly, that the European Union established, that gave there another consideration that it was not historically held, and that it is managed in an indirect or private way through, during the past decades, concessions, authorizations and litigations. They have a lot in common; yes, very different work realities. What do we find today? So look, the first one we find today is a problem derived from the year 2010 that generates who regulates them badly. For us the solution was very simple and possible, and it was part of betting for a public management model. He didn't want to do it. And when you don't bet on that, it's poorly regulated – and then we'll talk about other issues – and we'll find ourselves with a series of judicial sentences that cancel..., they don't say there's just something that's not right, but cancel, with what this means administratively, up to two regulations, so we find ourselves with what we find ourselves with. And we find ourselves, for a band, even if the authorities today are fake. We are obviously talking about those who will enter from 2010, not the previous ones. But, for another band, we also find that former dealers, so there is an immobile asset that needs to be reversed. And that's the reality we're finding ourselves now. Obviously, now, again, with this reality, we would give the same answer we gave in 2010, when we were not in this institution, which we said: "This must be a public management of a service of general interest. It is possible, and even the European Union allows it, even though for us this should not be a limit. Now, what are they up to? Of course, of which it has not been analyzed in depth, counselor... Article 1: What you attach to Article 1 is that you keep the same companies and you keep the same ITV points. The problem is not that this is a regulated sector; the problem is that some have transformed a regulated sector into a practically monopolistic sector, with few businesses and with the same points. And that's what they're going to do again in Article 1. In Article 2, what do they do? So what they regulate are taxes and public prices plus a 2_per_cent. They'll let me joke: maybe the 3_per_cent was complicated to add it there, because it was a very symbolic, obviously, xifra in the institutions and in the political reality of this country, but we still don't know why the 2_per_cent and why not the 5_per_cent, for example. Third article: Reversing immobile assets, and this reversal will compensate for market price. And you ask us for a blank answer in an indeterminate legal concept, which is a market price. They'll see after you as it is, this compensation. This is what Article 3 sets out. Article 4: We'll make a law. You'll have to make a warrant to make a law; you don't have to make a decree. The law has to be done, there's no more. I, therefore... Then, in the final part, two other realities. The first, there will be no more authorizations. And therefore, you with this decree also want to keep the business of these companies intact. They fill their mouths historically to speak of competence, and, suddenly, for a regular sector they fix a reality for which they already limit the playing field and guarantee the status quo, which is what they come to do with this decree, to maintain the status quo – which is what they come to do with this decree, to maintain the status quo. And the last question, to generate confusion: « In fifteen months there will be... there will be no law. What you say in this decree is that in fifteen months they will present a law. And, therefore, what they want to do with the material content of this decree is to keep things as they are, to keep the status quo. And we don't count on it. It's not because we're betting on a public model of managing a general service of interest, and it's not because – we're not oblivious either, and it's to say with names and surnames –..., Oriol Pujol, two years and a half of condemnation accepted for..., « traffic of influences would not be the right term, it would be charging commissions to influence politically what they are here through Convergence and Union, which is what he accepted and recognized, and that's why he's condemned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.12.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, effectively, 2008– the Councillor recalled– approved an industrial security law that, among other things– establishments, installations–, also regulated ITVs and changed the model, from a system of granting to a system of authorization under a territorial distribution which, effectively, was approved by the Government's decree in 2010. Immediately that decree was the object of appeals, different appeals, and immediately there began to be the first sentences of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, and then, obviously, it ended up in the Supreme, in effect, which annulled—announced—the dispositions of that decree. And from that moment on a change in the rules of ITVs, in the Law of ITVs and in the way of trying to manage ITVs was required. Therefore, from those first moments, the concessions that continue to exercise this task and the authorizations that were given in agreement with that decree remain in an effective legal situation. And what you're trying to do today is to keep this legal situation through the passing of a decree, which is the responsibility of the rest of the parliamentary groups. So listen to me, I think I've been practically told by all the spokespersons who preceded me: you have to do a new law to end this legal situation and open a new scene for ITVs. And, besides – let's say it – open a new screenplay that is more favorable to the user as well and more favorable to the citizenry, because in the end we're talking about this. But you've already done well, this system, and the proof is that you two have done nothing to understand this situation. And after two years, what they claim is that we consolidate this situation: "Well, yes, listen, we commit ourselves to bringing the law to Parliament within fifteen months – we will bring the law to Parliament. Well, that argument is not for us. And neither is the fact that you're telling us today: "Look, they've already approved the preliminary memory of the preliminary project to work with this, and so on. Well, magnificent, very good; so when they have the law, they carry it. But before we do, we do not ask that Parliament validate a situation of legality of ITV stations. And allow me... Mr. Ferro said: "Secute, how many laws are there that, in dispositions, say that the government must carry a law and then do not carry it? There's a lot of them. I brought one – I brought one. Fixin-s 'hi, 2014 was reviewed the Law of Industrial Security only in those apartments that refer to establishments and installations. At that time, the Government told us: "We are not interested in bringing the issue of ITVs into this law, which should be carried..., because it was scarcely a year, June or July 2012, it had triggered the case of Oriol Pujol, and therefore... "If we are now dealing with the issue of ITVs, it could raise suspicions. Some of us may have believed it; others, I don't know. But the reality was one: that the government was already fine, the situation where the ITVs were and did not address the new law. It is stated that in that law of 2014, 9 of 2014, the five-year final provision says: "The Government, in the terms of new months since the entry into force of this law, must approve a draft law governing the legal regime of the technical inspection of vehicles. July 2014, counselor. We've already heated ourselves once, with you, as Tom is. Therefore, do not wait for our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return for Mr Alfons Montserrat. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.14.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. Counselor, he has already explained to us the content and motivation of the law that is leading to validate, the Decree Law 45/2020, on the transitional and extraordinary empowerment to continue the technical inspection service of vehicles, an inspection that, as we have agreed, has the character of obligatory, reason why the government needs to age so that this service is provided in an appropriate way and also ensures its quality. The model we've seen has been evolving over time. Initially, 82, is outsourced to a legal regime of administrative concession which, later, is replaced by the law of 2008, is replaced by the figure of administrative authorization. And it is this new legal framework that is the object of a major legal conflict. We have seen that the total practicality of the regulatory provisions dictated are declared null, so that the model is not defined in its most basic aspects, and this entails a difficult legal insecurity. They are different from the Supreme Court's judgments that cancel requests, from the maximum market share to the distance between stations in the same group, the use of goods and services already reversed and the economic counter-performance, etc., so that this leads us to a situation in which, for one band, the performance of the ITV service is a public obligation, and therefore, for the other, this regulatory mark is severely affected by the different feelings. Execution of these feelings and also the adequacy to the European standard mark require regulatory changes, which are addressed in this draft law, which, as we have seen, the government is working on, a draft law that has the pre-project memory that was approved on 10 November. The advisor already explained to us that it will serve to define in a comprehensive way the performance of the service, as it will give legal certainty to operators who act or want to act in the sector, will establish a coherent model and without cracks, will adapt to the European standard mark, will reduce unjustified administrative burdens, etc. And at the same time, it will keep all those aspects related to the technical competence of inspection centres. But, meanwhile, and in order to avoid leaving the provision of this service without legal coverage and to ensure its continuity and avoid this legal insecurity..., it is what makes this decree justified by law that deploys its effectiveness – and that is worth saying – in this period that goes from its entry into force until it is published in this new standard that will definitively define its activity. And with the benevolence that this term was left of what it was about, fifteen months, to process the bill, huh? It is a draft law in which, as has been said, this extraordinary and urgent need competes, since the ITV service is an essential service that cannot fail to provide, and that the law establishes its mandatory character, so that it establishes such a rule that it is transitory, that it transfers legal security to the sector and that regulates those basic economic aspects. Other formulas, such as the processing of a draft law for the emergency procedure or for a single reading, are not advisable: the first, because it would not guarantee the performance of the service during the processing period, and the second is not advisable given the complexity and technical character of this new initiative. Therefore, we believe that this extension that is proposed today is the corresponding formula that surrounds this tax until it has this comprehensive legislative regulation for the whole model of the service of ITVs, a regulation that is already working, that already has the stated objectives and that will come to us in the proper months. Therefore, we give all our support to the decree that today is the door to approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs.Glòria Freixa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.16.0	Well, good morning to everyone, counselor, deputies, deputies. Thank you, President. Today, as Counsellor Tremosa has said, we hope that the Law Decree on Transitional and Extraordinary Enablement is validated to continue the performance of the technical inspection service of vehicles. After listening to your interventions, I'm sure you'll understand that you need to validate this decree. It's not that I don't agree with some of the things you said, but I think we need to change a little bit: we need to think a little bit more than this is not a moment of political opportunity, but of necessity. I think what we're trying to do here is to put the first stone in order to reorganize a service that's essential, because when we talk about technical vehicle inspection, we also talk about people's safety and also about environmental care. With this decree we do not intend to leave connected as is the regulation of the forward; simply it is threaded to the needle to start working to provide legal security to the enterprises of the sector, to ensure that this essential service will be completed, and, ultimately, to guarantee also, as we say, the security of the people and to preserve the environment. The decree doesn't hold at all – and I think you yourself have read it – that this is a transitory measure. In fact, they would like to read their final provision, which says: "The Government, within a maximum of fifteen months of the entry into force of this decree, must submit to Parliament a draft law governing the general interest of the technical inspection of vehicles. Therefore, it is not until now that we decide how to provide this service. It's just that it's not that, the object of discussion right now; that's what we'll be working on all the more. When this bill of law is discussed, we'll look at whether this is a management that needs to be done directly, whether it's done for accredited entities... I think that, between one form and another, there are a thousand colors that we can find. But, meanwhile, what we would like is that, because there is a good performance of this service, this decree is approved by the law. Let us remember – some of you have said this – that the technical inspection of vehicles has a mandatory character and imposes, on the competent public administration, the need to age because the service is provided adequately and to ensure the quality of the inspection services. Any vehicle must be inspected periodically so that it does not circulate in perilous conditions, either for the same user or for third parties. Well, we can ask ourselves – and they ask us, and they have told us repeatedly – why it hasn't happened before. I would like you, instead of coming here and denying us without standing at our side to approve this measure, which I think would be good for the sector..., I think you should also appreciate that you have had to make a lot of balance to deal with a very harsh situation legally. This sector is found, after a number of sensations, with an emptiness of its content of the current legislation, and then – I think they can't get over it – of the interbanks that we have suffered from this legislature, the management of post-155, which provoked the intervention of the Generality and a long period that we need to go back to normality. The crisis of the Covid has also had to be addressed, which has obviously generated other priorities. And all this I think we must add to the legal insecurity created by the constant judicial pressure against the Presidency of the Generality, which has also generated a lot of instability, and which has ended, as you know, with the shameful disqualification of the President of the Generality of Catalonia. But that doesn't mean this government doesn't care, that's why. And the proof is that it is obliged – obliged – to finish this legislature one year before the forecast, this government does not want to spend more time without giving security to the sector, until it is fixed who are the conditions in which the companies that carry out these technical inspections of vehicles will be able to operate. After some of his interventions, I have nothing more to do than to return – back – to refer to the transition of this decree to law as a bridge regulation, which, as counsel Tremosa has said..., has tried to reinforce by presenting the memory of the preliminary draft law and has made it clear that it is the new law that will fully regulate the public interest service of ITVs, as we decide here. But now there is a regulation, in this anomalous situation, which already takes time to the air. Because ITVs are, as has been said here, an essential service that can't fail to lend, and that, let's remember, they go for security and the environment. Only the year 2019 3,300,000 vehicles have passed the technical inspection of vehicles, and, therefore, the data show that it is essential to address this matter and that we cannot wait until our own legislature. I follow by reinforcing the approval of this decree, reminding you that there are judicial resolutions that give us a clear command to resolve this situation. And we have a report from the central judicial office that leaves no doubt of the need for this decree, which, Mr. Ferro, is not an act of faith, it is a judicial report from the central judicial office that I hope will meet the criteria that you should share. Because the differences in the views of the Supreme Court that nullify important articles of the current regulation leave a difficult situation of legal uncertainty that may affect the conditions under which this service is provided. Because it also says the report that it is necessary to adapt the regulatory rules to the state and Community rules, and therefore a law regulating the service delivery model, the economic conditions of the activity and the property regime of the facilities where this service is provided. And the most important: it can give coverage to the current service performance on the part of the operators who currently provide it. There is no doubt: it makes it very clear that some arguments clearly justify the approval of this decree, which would be effective exclusively between the period of approval of this decree and the publication of the law that rules the activity definitively. As we have said, and to focus on it, the technical inspection of vehicles is a service of general interest related to transport, which has as its object, of one band, to ensure that the vehicles are in good condition from the point of view of safety and the environment throughout their useful life, and, on the other hand, the prevention of risks associated with vehicle safety deficiencies that negatively affect road safety and that can contribute to road traffic accidents with injuries and fatalities. Therefore, there is no doubt: it is an essential service that cannot fail to lend. In this law decree, with which they intend to guarantee the continuity of this service, I think we should find them on the side. We'll discuss the processing of the bill, we'll discuss the model there, we'll find a space there to debate, to reach the consensus that the issue requires. I believe that today's proposal should simply be understood as the will to take the maximum steps to advance everything that is possible and to leave the first stone already – you have said ‘stick' – so that, in your own legislature, you can finish the job. It simply allows us to offer the service until we can present, discuss and approve the law, if they get out, to the next legislature. I would now ask you to approve this decree, but from the interventions that you have had here I assume that this will not be so. I deeply regret the fact that they have dedicated themselves to denying us to go late, especially on the part of the Socialist Party and on the part of the party of the commons, parties that govern Spain and that the decrees are its usual tool: it divides decrees into 100 days, which, moreover, most of them have been fallen. And, therefore, I am very sorry that we come here to deny and to say, when we believe that an urgent resolution to a problem that could be saved with an interinitiation... that you don't have them at your side. The Socialist Party believed that it tried to fix the whole regulatory issue of technical vehicle inspections by 2006; they did not find the consensus to do so. So we thought they'd help put the first stone down right now because that's what it is. And, in the Ciutadans game, what I'd like to tell him is that he's fine, the one who's come to explain here. I also regret that from the long meeting he dedicated to all parliamentary groups the department to explain the need for urgency and why he had arrived at this missing point yet, supposedly, one year to finish the legislature, and, still, the Councillor Tremosa had tried to put all his efforts so that this was... and that from that meeting you commented on things that the Director General told you, that probably because of the length of the meeting, the points that he had commented that there should be personal questions that he commented on there, as it had happened to that point..., I regret that everything that he has to say about that meeting was exclusively following the things that you said to us here. Well, I keep saying this is an opportunity. I'm still asking for a vote on this decree, and I hope you're doing well to give it your compliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the energy transition and decarbonization of the Catalan economy]] [[302-00265/12]] And, after the debate, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the energy transition and decarbonization of the Catalan economy, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members and Members, we insist, as we did 15 days ago: the just and compromise ecological transition with international treaties must be placed at the centre of the country's economic and social and political model, from our point of view. Because responding to the economic crisis and climate change is urgent, but also an opportunity for social and economic progress in Catalonia, together with the digitalization of our product fabric. And to our parliamentary group we are concerned – I also told you fifteen days ago – that some government councillors and councillors, respect renewable energies, seem to vagrate at the best of their time: torped projects with a short-lived electoral vision and with an energetic focus that does not respond, nor do they respond, to the current and future needs of Catalonia. It cannot be that the installed power is 8.95_per_cent, if we add the whole conjunction of the Spanish State. It does not correspond to the percentage of the population nor to the gross domestic product of Catalonia nor to the industrial population of our country. Let's be clear: the deployment of renewables is a country repte and also a generational repte. We insist on the need to set priorities. Catalonia has to stop being at the forefront of the deployment of renewable energies. The government... we should all be proactive in this matter. We can't donate coverage and we can't convert nimbys to respect this theme. And some motions that run for some meetings in Catalonia..., it seems that we seem like that, also some nimbys respect this subject. The energy transition is not just like renewables; it is working to reduce carbon neutrality by 2050 and to promote the environmental policies needed to combat climate change in all territorial levels and in all administrations. The energy transition is not just to make politically correct speeches; it is to work for a 50_per_cent reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 in a coordinated way with the guidelines of the European Union. It is also working for sustainable mobility and public-private collaboration with the entire mobility sector in Catalonia, which all of you know about your country. It is also a plan of renewal and modernization of industrial polygons to transform them into polygons of sustainable economic activity. It is also working for a barrel board linked to a strategy of energetic habitat rehabilitation. It is not only about making friendly surroundings in our barrels; it is about continuing to facilitate accessibility to the country's housing stock, but above all working for this strategy of energy rehabilitation and the promotion of energy communities of local self-consumption in the municipality. It is also to link it, as it cannot otherwise be, from our point of view, to the agenda of work and new opportunities that define the European fund of recovery. These foundations – which I have no doubt that the European Union will come to an end – are an opportunity, but also a historical responsibility. We can't let trains pass again as you historically made the conjunction of the Spanish State. A few facts with which we will have to guarantee – it seems to me that this was also given by the adviser, and on this I agree, fifteen days ago – a rigorous and effective execution. The Government of Spain has already expressed its willingness to co-governance these foundations and the projects that must accompany them. They must work, from our point of view, in a loyal and collaborative way, both governments, but they must also work collaboratively with companies, research centres and local administrations, so that, together, we can align ourselves with these European objectives and priorities. In the second round I'll fix the position to respect the exams. In any case, I already want to thank all the parliamentary groups that have done their part to work and try to have a text as much consensus as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position and defend the papers presented, he has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr Terrades. The year I was born in 1990, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued its first report on climate change. 1992 was the Earth Summit in Rio, which was surely the first major event linked to climate change and where the first emission reduction targets were set. From 1990 until today, 30 years have passed, and not only have the emission reduction targets not been met, but a 58 – almost 60 – percent increase in emissions. And the most worrying of all is not that emissions increase, but that during all this time the rate of increase of emissions has increased. Today, thirty years after signing the first commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we are trying to flatten this raven and every year stop growing greenhouse gas emissions in our countries. And, well, history, in Catalonia, we know it well. We've lost two years in Catalonia. The last two years in Catalonia are two years in white, involving the installation of renewable energies. But we haven't lost any years, we've lost the most important years for the installation of renewable energy in our country, because history usually works backwards. If one day thinks: "How much does a bad political decision taken 20 years ago matter today? So surely the effects of a political error were mitigating with the passage of time and with the subsequent corrections that we did. With the climate change going backwards: errors accumulate and history weighs more and more on the present. And, therefore, having been given years without installing renewable energies was the worst mistake we could have made in this country. And that went well because we have had a government unable to assume its historical responsibility in terms of energy transition and sustainability. In Catalonia there has been a long tradition of ecological movements, of movements of defense of the earth, of movements of defense of the quality of our airs, of our ecosystems. There were many historical and present reasons for organizing a climate change summit in our country, and he only organized it for a reason: because Mr. Calvet considered that electorally it was already profitable, organizing a climate change summit. A summit that was organized without planned work, without subsequent agreements, and, most importantly, without subsequent public policies or compromises. A summit that had no more objective than to go out for TV3 the size of a minute and a half of Telenews to give promotion to the summit. And this is the sad reality: we finish a legislature without deploying the Climate Change Law, without law regulating the need for energy transition in our country and which was compromised by the government, without a public energy company able to guarantee the right to access renewable energies, without a law of residue. Yesterday, the companies and companies of the Residu Zero Platform were here to demand that it is completed once the one that approved this Parliament, which was a moratorium on incineration projects. In Catalonia this government and the previous governments have not done their dues, and it's every time more obvious, and every time it weighs more like a slug. And Catalonia deserves a government that's brave. Because today's debate is not whether there will be an energy transition or not – there will be – it will be –; it is whether the citizens of Catalonia have a right to the energy transition and to the end of this process without unequally breaking our society, or whether the flames of this country have a right to the energy transition without jeopardizing the continuity of their business. And we need a government that is brave and that assumes its historic responsibility, that drives courageous public policies that guarantee a future that is worthy and sustainable for our country. We've lost two years; we'll pay them all our lives, give them years we've lost. At least, we're still honest and we don't lose our own years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Civit has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.22.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the question made by the Member of Parliament Terrades, because always, since we have met, as a minimum servant, that entered 2015 and will end, therefore, one month from now his presence here in Parliament..., we have met always with the theme of the promotion of renewable energies. And I hope that this debate – as Congressman Ferro claimed – is not over. Because, unfortunately, it is an emergence that we have, planetary; an emergence that we have, in this case, like the country, for not having done things right. And that means all folds, those that have been governed and those that have been opposed, sometimes opposing some project, sometimes not encouraging the laws that they touch. And, in the end, between each other, the Roman pax that has been generated here with the theme of renewable energies has been a silence in renewables. And that's what we need to avoid. Because for what we bet, from our parliamentary group, it's for a renewable, democratic, and preferably zero-kilometre cent_per_cent model. And since before he spoke and questioned the deputy Terrades..., as he is of Granollers I suppose you must know an eco-consumer cooperative that is called La Magrana. Jo, when I lived in Granollers, so I was a member of this cooperative. We have to start planting energy as if we were a ecological cyst, because we have to make an energy cyst in which we can go directly..., or produce ourselves or go directly to the producer. Because here, unfortunately, we find that when all this encouragement of renewable energies comes up to parts of the territory, that they have another territorial emergence, that it is depopulation and aging, these spaces only have enough to pay the tax of works, the CIIO, and some compensation that... sometimes, as do the petrochemical companies of the Tarragona polygon, that give four cents to the association of the comings for the main party and with this already served, the theme. And while, then, we are doing our business – that they have all the right, all the same – but, yes, there has to be compensation for the territory. And that's why we all want to be among the great producers, who could be the Association of Micropopulations, but above all, the great consumers, which is the metropolitan area of Barcelona, who do not have a strategy fixed firmly and clearly – as we have, for example, in mobility – on energy issues. Why aren't the big consumers – that are the metropolitan area – and the big producers and pacts like making this energy transition in which we all have a determining role? Because they have passed from a centralized model – and that in these motions is claimed, and also in other points of this legislature, we have not talked –..., that it is the return of hydroelectrics to public management. That after, then, we will talk about whether concessions are made, and, if concessions are made, in what way, so that it is not as it is now. Because we're talking about a centralized model in which, when the Pearson came, with La Canadenca, Barcelona Traction, Light and Power, so, they made the big hydroelectric power plants. At the end of four days the cable was already pulled up to Barcelona and its factories and its people, which had all the right, but while they had to wait fifty years in the town hall on the side to get light, and that can't be. We have to go to a model distributed where we all play, where we pass from a change that unfortunately has been in force, the oligopolistic, in fossils and nuclear, and we have to avoid that there is an oligopolistic model in renewables in which all remains in the hands of Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy. In this, we don't want to be there. That's why we celebrate the agreement that has been reached, with transactions, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and we will support it. Simply, in this case, we... there is a point that we will refrain from, that is the agreement that they have reached with the group of commons of the whole subject of the public energy enterprise. For a simple theme, of concept. Since the European Union it has agreed on the whole issue, for a band, of production, distribution and marketing. What kind of paper do we have here? Distribution? I would totally agree, because here in Catalonia practically the cent_per_cent of the network is Endesa. And that's why I ask all of your assemblies to be part of the Association of Municipalities and Public Energy Entities. For example, Barcelona is not yet there, and there are many municipalities that are not there and should be there. And with that we could get the distribution network, which was public, which isn't now. And of course, Endesa, with the wealth of entrepreneurs she has, she has production, distribution and marketing. And if we have to make a marketer, there are hundreds of traders in Catalonia who, by chance, encourage renewable energy. So, are we doing this? I don't know, let's talk to him. The transition or the fem or they'll do it to us. So I'm doing a prec – since I'm not going to be in my own legislature – because in my own legislature, if you please, I'll finish the transition, I'll put in the funds; that we don't waste any more time, certainly; that we make the Law of Energy Transition; that we obviously make the Icaen a consultation, a proactive, the Energy Agency; that we make the law of zero residue based on the circular economy – zero residue, huh? , zero residue: that nothing ends up either in the mouthpiece or in the incinerator; that we change the new product model, that we change the productivity model; that the roof of Catalonia is without plates, please, that this is a shame. And manufacturers, here and now, above all, let's leave the antique model. And, above all, it leaves Catalonia free and renewable. This is my petition. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Josep Puig has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.24.0	Good morning. President, thank you. Counsellor, Members, Members, above all, I want to show my thanks to all the people who have contributed to today's vote on the motion on energy transition. "Energy transition is certainly an uncertain translation of the Germanic word 'energywende', which really means 'caption of energy, which is what it really is, and which is perfectly described in a book, which is this, of Craig Morris and Arne Jungjohann, which is called Energy Democracy: Energywende Germany to renewables. It's really a trick, what we have to do with energy, to overcome the addiction of the society we have to fossil material, to cremate fossil material, to dispose of energy, and that's the legacy we've lost since the Neanderthals, our forefathers, discovered how to handle fire. The climate emergency situation we're living in is... we just have to take into account the international threads and the objectives they set us up. In this framework, the administrations simply need to facilitate the responsible action of the whole society so that the people, all the stations of the society, can make a social provision of the technologies that allow us to have energy without having to cremate anything. And we must urgently abandon the energy obtained from the cream of fossil and nuclear materials. We will vote in favour of all points except 1 bis, which we will abstain from. Ferran explained the reason. We understand that... if you had proposed a public distribution company, we would give support to it, because the distribution networks we have all paid for and are forever taken over by a company that monopolizes it and, moreover, makes it an abuse. I did not explain to myself that I had to connect countless installations to the network... the difficulties that this monopoly poses. So, it's over here, over where we have to walk. I would like to enter a little into the issue that generates opposition to renewables by engaging in what they say is alteration of the landscape. All the spaces of our country are the result of human interaction, and it is ancient. The problem is not whether humans can modify the spatialisation of the problem is whether its alteration causes natural systems that coexist in these spaces to do their ecological functions or not. Hermann Scheer, who was founder of Eurosolar, told us about the year 2001, when he was in Barcelona to present his book Global Solar Economy: strategies for economic modernity. It is not possible to compare a green landscape before and after installing a wind farm, because wind energy avoids contaminating emissions that would end up destroying this same landscape. It is what goes on cremating fossil fuels and fissioning nuclear materials: there is not enough with the visual impact caused by the refinery or plant, because the very existence of these installations put in danger the landscape. In the 21st century the energy revolution is only possible with technology. The great mistake of the 20th century was that it identified energy with fossil material. Energy is much more than that; energy is the unifying principle of the universe. And, finally, let me remind myself of what Hermann Scheer, parliamentarians of the Bundestag and one of the partners of the German energy revolution, wrote to us: "The technological revolution is not only given for the technology itself, but for the people who take advantage of the new possibilities of technology. From a technical innovation there is a social movement; it can push some from the top, but the mass deployment is from the bottom. That is why we have proposed 1.1, with its two sides, 1.1.a and 1.1.b, because renewable installations will only be captured by the citizen if the citizen makes them his or her own. And to make it happen, to make them their own, the citizenry has participated in the decision and even in the same property of the project. Finally, let me pay tribute to all those people who from the 70s and 80s of the past century have put into practice what Hermann Scheer said, who left us in haste and out of the hour: "The energy revolution is based on the establishment of multiple events without asking permission of the holders of the existing energy structures. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.26.0	Good. Today no one questions climate change, and we have been able to declare the climate emergency in many institutions. No one questions the warming of the planet by the greenhouse gases generated by human activity. Not that long ago, huh? But, in the face of an emergency, exceptional measures must be taken, and our governments must live up to them. A productive fabric based on sustainability is imposed. In order to slow down the acceleration of global warming, we must reduce the production of greenhouse gases and, to that end, reduce the consumption of fossil fuels. In other words, we must make an energy transition to decarbonize our economy at the global level, although today we are only talking about our territorial scope. But what does it mean to decarbonise our economy? On the one hand, decarbonising implies boosting the use and production of energy that emits less CO2, i.e. renewable energy; but it also means creating more efficient productive models in the use of resources and much more prudent in generating negative externalities, i.e. boosting the so-called circular economy. This is the great contribution that the Ciutadans Group has been able to make to this motion, thanks to the acceptance of Amendment No 4, in which we ask the Government to make a report with benchmarks, and with this report we can compare ourselves with other regions of Spain or Europe and see where we are. Because since 2012 we have the Catalonia 2020 strategy, and we don't know if we're better or worse than when it was done, in 2012. We do not know whether the policies implemented by the Generalitat improve the sustainability of the economy. And, on the other hand, do we know whether the 2015 government agreement on the circular economy has been complied with? No, we don't know if this agreement has been fulfilled. As for renewables, Catalonia in the 1980s was a pioneer in wind energy, but a pioneer in Spain as a whole and Europe as a whole. And now, where are we? For now Catalonia is in line, with just 9_per_cent of Spain's production in solar and wind. But, look, this isn't Catalonia's fault. Catalonia is not on the line of renewables by chance. It is the responsibility of you and all the governments that have been dedicated since 2012 only to tightening the rope, tightening and driving away investments. The policies of the various procedural governments are not prioritizing the decarbonization of the economy or the energy transition. Catalonia generates only 9_per_cent of renewables from all over Spain, but wind farms and solar gardens projects continue to paralyze. And I continue: in the recently completed climate emergency commission it was evidenced that a committee of experts on climate change was created, but that it does not have all its members appointed, nor does it have resources, nor will they be able to fulfil the mandated functions, such as carbon budgets. In other words, they do not prioritise a body such as the committee of experts set up by this Parliament. But I'm optimistic. And I am optimistic because, fortunately, Catalonia is not reduced to its governments. Catalonia is much more. Catalan society, the business fabric, the scientific community..., these do tighten, these do, and they teach us a new opportunity to lead research, development and innovation, such as green hydrogen. And already, sweeping home, which I always try, I want to highlight the green hydrogen initiative that is being worked on from Tarragona. The chemical complex of Tarragona and Rovira i Virgili are doing a work on green hydrogen with very interesting projects. I have full confidence in Catalan society, which will be able to compensate for the shortcomings of the various governments that are marching, concerned about other issues. We can be referenced again and be one of the engines to meet the 2030 and 2050 targets we have set ourselves from Europe. Finally, I would like to thank all the amendments by Ciutadans, of the proposing group, such as the report on indicators of the circular economy, which I have already mentioned, but also for prioritising underutilized agricultural and industrial land for the deployment of renewables, including long-distance mobility – and not just urban mobility – in reducing greenhouse gases, and facilitating solar energy in industrial ships, public buildings, shopping centres and owner communities. With this, I hope it will come out approved by the majority, this motion. We will give support, except on a couple of points where we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, to fix its position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the deputy Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.28.0	Thank you very much, President. To intervene from the escó. We share that it is cabdal, the need for energy transition. In fact, respect this young man, we will vote in favour practically of all points, except point 2, which we will vote against, and 3 and 12, in which we will abstain. We say that we consider the energy transition to be appropriate, but it must come from the hand of energy sovereignty; otherwise, we will not have energy transition. And that means, essentially..., or rather, it means controlling those elements that are essential to our energy; otherwise, there will be no authentic energy transition. Unfortunately, what we have today, in the reality of the Spanish State, is an oligopoly of five great companies. And before these five great companies, we plant five great chords or five great points to give it an answer. First, the facilitation of self-production without taxation. We, who have always defended taxation... obviously energy, when it comes to self-production, must have another consideration. The effectiveness of two laws: the Climate Change Law and the Energy Poor Law, laws we have approved in this Parliament, which should be authentically effective and which this parliamentary subgroup considers not to be real effective today. Fourth measure: halting energy infrastructure macro-projects – we are talking about MAT or Midcat. And in the last place, and for us also absolutely essential, to nationalize distribution networks: if there is no process of nationalization, which means internalization, which means direct management, which means public management, which means democratic management of our distribution networks, we cannot guarantee energy sovereignty, and therefore we cannot guarantee energy transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.30.0	Thank you, President. To announce that our group will give practical support to this whole young man, some points, in which we will abstain, and some others that we will vote against and that I will continue to explain. But first of all, I would like to recall that, in fact, the development of renewable energies in Catalonia over the years has been slow, complicated and tortuous, until all the last two years, especially as a result of a wind map decree that paralysed, practically, the implementation of our wind farms in Catalonia and which has just been corrected a year ago, last year, 2019. But before that, I remember, as in the anecdote, that speaking to an industrialist in the wind sector, he explained to me why Catalonia did not have the embrazida in the implantation of wind farms that were held by other communities, and he set the example of Castella - La Manxa. And he told me that in Castella - La Manxa the authorization to install an wind farm took seven months, and in Catalonia, at that time, it took seven years. In order to try to correct this, the 2009 decree was made, and the cure was worse than the disease, because it ended completely the development of wind farms in Catalonia. I therefore believe that it is important that we always value very well the decisions that are taken by the Government, and that we take from the Parliament, in order to facilitate the development of renewable energies, and not to put them through. That said, we will abstain from the points in which the creation of the public enterprise is called for; also in that in which the creation of the public agency of the Agency of Energy of Catalonia is called for, converting the Catalan Institute of Energy, not because we are in favour of it or against it, but because we believe that it is necessary to value with more detail which functions and what paper it must have. We will also abstain in the recovery of the management of hydropower concessions, effectively. And, finally, we would vote against the only solution they put forward for economic activity and industry, which is to impose taxes. We don't agree. We think we need to encourage energy transition, and what we don't need to do is penalize, at least at an early stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the return of the deputy Terrades. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.32.0	Thank you, President. From the point of view, only thank the work of all the parliamentary groups, the contributions that have been made, the transactions that we have arrived at, that improve the text of the motion that my parliamentary group had presented. And let's hope that in our own legislature we get into a way that doesn't put up with the whole process of energy and economic transition to our society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into secondary and post-compulsory education]] [[302-00266/12]] The debate is over, and as long as we vote, like the rest of the points on today's agenda, this late, let's move on to the next, which is the motion following the question to the Government about secondary and post-compulsory education, a motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puer. To defend her, Mr. Marc Parés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, this week I've been visiting some secondary and post-compulsory education centers, and I've been able to talk to the teacher, to the management teams, to the families, to the students – who are often the great oblivions, right? – in order to be able to know firsthand what is the situation that they are living and how the pandemic is being managed at the present time. The first thing you see when you go into an institute is that there's been activity, and so the education system is working, and I think that's an element that we need to put into value. Then you get cold, don't you? And you see that student and teacher are sheltered in classrooms, because it's true that they're ventilating, but they're doing it at the expense of thermal comfort, and that still doesn't get the coldest of winter. And when you start talking to the educational community, they explain things to you that, when positive cases have been detected and groups have been confined, so health professionals have come dressed as highly protected astronauts to make texts throughout the students, but that no tests have been taken at the faculty, and that you have shared with the stable groups confined for many hours every day. The management teams who explain that they are overrun by management tasks; that they may have been able to expand their groups to reduce rates, but that they have done so without any increase in teaching, even in high- and most complex centers. And that, obviously, therefore, this has been to the detriment of the educational quality or of very interesting pedagogical projects that the past year were developing and that this year have had to stop because they have been left without the resources necessary to do so. Or they find that there has been a strong drop in the level of knowledge in the student as a result of the confinement they suffered and that it has more severely affected the most vulnerable student. Or four-quarter-year-old ESO students who say they've been confined and have suffered from this confinement, so they can't connect because they don't have the devices, and when we're about to finish the third quarter, they still haven't gotten a computer in some of the centers. This is what one can see with his own eyes if he visits an institute. And here are the proposals that we make at the first point of our motion, with a more conjunctural character, and in which, therefore, basically to which we place the department, the Government, is to ensure that secondary and post-compulsory education centres can develop their task with the maximum guarantees of security for the community as a whole and with the minimum impact on the quality of education. After that, we wanted to place five major structural issues, which in fact were already large fronts before the pandemic and which with the pandemic intensified the need to deal with it. The first, the fight against segregation and school dropout. It is unacceptable that Catalonia has a 19_percent early school drop-out. And that's why we think we need to urgently deploy a plan of action to compensate for the impact of the crisis that passes to reduce taxes to the higher form cycle and to increase seats in the training and insertion programs, and with specific actions to fight against absenteeism. Secondly, we believe that we need to set the strategic challenge of developing an integrated educational and vocational guidance system in Catalonia, with guidance and guidance to all centres, which guarantees the specific presence of guidance in the curriculum – and this means hours and professionally – and, at the same time, that I am strengthening tutorial tasks, with a determined commitment to personalising education. And, therefore, with more resources and lower rates, because, if not, it is not possible to do so. Thirdly, we believe that we need to strengthen and improve the planning tools of the educational offer by introducing criteria to ensure an adequate and sufficient supply of public places and a balanced response to future demands. And in this sense, we believe that FP curriculum reform is a mistake, and I will refer to it later, because there have been some considerations. Fourthly, we believe that it is necessary to reverse the trend towards privatisation that post-compulsory education is experiencing and that it is essential to regulate private VET at a distance, which has not been done in one of the orders that was published last week. And we believe, at the same time, that we need to reinforce the offer of the IOC. We plan to deploy a legal and presuppositionary framework to promote the progressive integration of concerted centres into the public sector, but when you do, it is done in its globality, and not that there are concerted centres that demand only to transfer compulsory education to the public sector because they are deficient, and, in change, therefore, do not want to do so with the post-compulsory network, which is where they are generating benefits, as happens with Manresa's Joviat School. And lastly, but not least, we believe that it is essential to intensify inclusive actions in secondary and post-compulsory education, and in this line, therefore, the last point of our motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.36.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. I begin by thanking Member Marc Parés, therefore, the presentation of this motion on secondary and post-compulsory education, because, beyond the situation of pandemic, which has exacerbated the problems that exist in education in Catalonia, this stage accumulates structural problems that affect the student first person, such as the excessive rigidity, the lack of paths between itineraries, the lack of guidance services, the lack of customization of teaching, the lack of specific supports for students with specific educational needs, the mass ratios and equipments generally enveloped and very saturated. Obviously, problems that professorship also suffers, overcome long ago. At the end of October, as I said, the Procicate suspended with a resolution the presenceality in the secondary and post-compulsory stage – leaving it in a 50_per_cent. And at these times, then, at the end of the first quarter, 90 per cent of the devices and connectivity that had been announced did not arrive, which clearly undermines the equality of opportunity and does not help, either, to reduce the very high taxes on early school leaving, which we register that duplicate the European media and also exceed the Spanish media. And that's why we share that it would be useful to review the missing meaning of this semi-presence model to return to a cent_per_cent face-to-face model. And that is why, therefore, we believe that we must also incorporate new teachers, that it is essential to reduce the rates, and enable also space, that would help reduce the levels of infection. It is therefore a priority to ensure the continuity of the educational process between young people in very critical, which are significant, in terms of fairness and quality. And so we think the government needs to rethink and take clear steps to improve the situation, because we can't lose more students on the road. We've lost a third course, and now we can't have any more kids and kids, so we're playing too much, like society. And, in this sense, it also seems important to us that we do not forget the centres of adult formation, that they make an essential task for the inclusion and employment of the citizenry; that they cannot be free of fairness measures, such as this crowding of connectivity, for example, like the centres of linguistic normalization, which, in order to set an example, therefore, are also left out of God's hand. Therefore, we find it very certain that the motion talked about compensating for the impact of the Covid crisis on abandonment and segregation, because although, as you know, we have a pact against segregation approved a few months ago, we lack many compensatory measures, we lack help and we lack the main instrument, which is the decree of admission, which, together with the new state law, LOMLOE, must be a tool to advance in a balanced schooling of the student. We are surprised – we have to say – that you have accepted the message of the groups that support the Government, which urges the ministry to increase scholarships and grants, when we are about to approve some general assumptions of the State where the education game experiences the greatest increase in history – almost a 140_per_cent – and where the major departure of the history to scholarships, of 2,000_million euros, is also destined, isn't it? He just surprised us. In any case, also, from the point of view of the faculty, we understand that it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of the teachers, today surpassed – as explained well, right? – for administrative, bureaucratic, management tasks of the Covid, and that few have to see, therefore, with the pedagogical work that is indispensable at such an important time. On the other hand, another topic to which they refer is the need to create public places in formats and also strengthen guidance, information and tutorial services at these stages. The truth is that it seems sad to us that, so many years after passing the Law of Professional Formation, there were no steps forward, right? • that we do not have the resources to strengthen this orientation so necessary, that it cannot be voluntary, but that it can be paid by the professionals; that we have hopes so far at the public vocational training centres in each pre-registration period, and, not to mention, that we do not have a training offer map or training needs in the territory that we have been able to agree with the socioeconomic and educational agents. We understand this to mean a lack of due diligence so important that we can only regret, especially when we are talking about formatious cycles, that, in general, they have a very high rate of employment insertion, and, therefore, it would be worthwhile for the government to devote all the necessary resources. We also agree on the need to reverse the trend of privatisation of the post-compulsory, but for this reason it is a presuppositional_mark that neither the government nor you, right? In their pact of assumptions, they provided for the creation of these new places. And if the inclusive school, unfortunately, is already so complicated in childhood or primary levels, in high school, then it's still a lot worse. We have quite abandoned students in the face of the rigidity of this stage, the lack of itineraries, curricular adaptations, and, therefore, we understand that more adaptations than culminates in certifications will be needed. Therefore, say that we will vote mostly in favour of the motion, and that we will only abstain in two points, the 6th and 7th, because we do not know the regulation that is proposed. And I also announce, therefore, that Unites per Avançar will make a different vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word the deputy Lluís Font..., who is not there. In any case, we will proceed to the next, and if up during the debate, and with the permission of the remaining Members, we will have him intervene when he arrives. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So you have the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the MP Mònica Palacín. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.38.0	Thank you, President. I think that the fact that at the first point, therefore, has perhaps gone faster, has made this half hour that we carry, approximately, from before has provoked that there are Members who still do not follow. Well, first of all, thank Congressman Pares for his willingness to agree on this young man, a man who actually sits on the table, huh? , this need to talk about this secondary, compulsory and post-compulsory education, in its broadest concept, because we are still working because this formation of all young people and adolescents in the country can be done with the greatest guarantee, so to speak. Only one comment respects a comment made by Mrs Niubó when she said that she did not understand how she had accepted some of the points from our parliamentary groups. It's true, that's to say... but we've also voted for many things when they've submitted papers that we're already working on, and so you're presenting them so that they want to focus more on certain aspects. And, for what it does to all the benefits of this law Celaá, approved now in Madrid, obviously, we do not expect much; among other things, also economic help that comes to give answer to the needs of these young people and these young people. Well, we'll vote mostly for this young man. There are two aspects in which the honourable Member knows that we have not agreed, or that in any case there are layers of plantation or ideological. In this case, we believe that in the points where we do agree... it is in this guarantee to assure the educational community the least impact on the quality of education. We're in the middle of a pandemic, though. We've done a lot of work. It has been shown that the schools are safe, but it is also true that, at certain times, actions have certainly required measures to contain the contagious in some areas, say, of education, very specific. And it's true that when we talk about young people and teenagers, right? , which generate more sociability outside the school, so they have had to take action, but in the educational centers it is obvious that they can work. So did Congresswoman Niubó, huh? , that in the topic of accessibility of computers in the case of confined groups or the hybrid system, it is certain, are distributing, already, these computers by part of the department. It is not an exclusive thing, in this case, of the competence of the department, because we all know that the willingness of the ministry and the distribution of the computers by the ministry also entail a delay of time in its distribution, but we can continue to work. She's a young woman with a lot of points; determining each of them is complicated, but yes... to reinforce this concept of adult education. Therefore, in times of pandemic or crisis it is when there is a great need to strengthen vocational training, to strengthen these second opportunities; this student with more difficulty, with more vulnerability and which, many times, therefore, can result in this premature abandonment, which we do not want, and less to have a society more prepared at work level. Therefore, all the measures they have put on the table to strengthen the formation of adults, to work against abandonment, against segregation through more help, these second opportunities... This educational and professional orientation through tutorial plans is also indispensable to guide young people in their educational continuity. If we do not agree – and this is one of the elements I wanted to say – it is in his demand to reverse the curriculum reform of vocational training. Here, then, on other occasions, on other motions, other companies have already brought it to debate. And, therefore, we firmly believe that the work of the department, together with the educational community, and in the field of vocational training... is working well. The subject, too, where we don't agree, is a very concrete point, the point that you know that refers to a concrete centre. But, if we broaden our eyes, we are very much in agreement, because the department's layout is to reverse privatization in the educational sphere, or what we say it is..., as we incorporate certain concerted centers into the network of public centers. But on the part of the post-compulsory, so we can't do what we say, a little bit like that... in global terms, an "exploitation, because it requires a volunteering of the centers. So, here we understand that the point that I'm referring to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.39.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.40.0	... – I finish, President – at the Joviat Centre we can't approve it. But, in any case, the rest of the proposals will mostly be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Lord Lluís Font. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.42.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. I'm sorry I'm late. I was out here, hoping I'd be notified so I could get in, and now I'm in. I'd like to tell you three things, in relation to the youth, and a previa. The idea is to thank the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can bring this topic to reflection, because it allows us to make a debate about a transcendental and fundamental issue of the education system. First thing. It is important to worry about the safety measures of the school, but always from a premise: the Catalan school is safe. If we do not make this clear, we can help create an unnecessary panic. The Catalan in-person school is safe. And all that I helped to fine-tune measures is welcome. It seems to me that the in vivo educational relationship between teachers and teachers, between teachers and teachers, cannot yet be replaced by another alternative. There's been talk of the hybrid model. In education, changes are slow, not overnight. If you want to precipitate them, non-volgual side effects often run counter to the intentions you pursue. Therefore, the hybrid model must be a space of reflection, of experimentation, which, from little to little, is vaguely incorporating, but it is clear that the face size is functional. And I'd like to make mention of the gatherings, too. The educational authority in Catalonia is the department, but it is necessary to take advantage of the experience experienced in the pandemic to intensify the climate of relationship and synergy between the Department of Education, with all its competences, and the municipal authorities, which, among other things, manage schools in Bressol, schools of music, and which have a very important active participation. According to a reflection that favors our youth: we have a point of escape to the system, between the fifteen and the divided years, of young people who find no alternative formative or who abandon the education system. And this is reflected in the high rate of early school leaving. What does this indicator mean, as the cohort of young people between divided and twenty-four years who are not doing post-secondary studies or have completed them? We got to 17 per cent, and it turned, the crow, and now we're at 19. I think this is a matter for many areas, but in the background, it's... it should be the top priority. It reflects the abandonment of seven-year-olds who do not complete the compulsory secondary education, those who finish and do not continue to study, the abandonment to first batting or first of format cycles. In any case, there must be programs that offer educational alternatives to young people who, in the most standard systems, do not find answers to their requests. And, obviously, the centres of new opportunities are a good option, while they do not standardize and become a third way where we end up putting those that do not just fit into the school or – if I may say so – that they sometimes bother in the teaching activity. And there could also be – and exist – very basic FP courses. But, aside from saying that, I also want to say that FP is everything else. It's an educated cycle – and remarca«ed because some, sometimes, only see the professionalizing dimension – and, at the same time, it enables you to access a job. FP is not the appendix to the production sector. Between two equally painful extremes – one, which had to live outside the demands of the sectors, economics and business regarding the profile of places, and the other, which had to convert the FP into an appendage of the conjuncture – there has to be a point of balance. The FP is fundamentally educational, but it has a professional dimension in terms of language. The third issue: paragraph 7 of the motion, reversing privatization to education. I don't think the title has just reflected the contents that accompany it, but... there's a aside referring to the non-personal private FP. I would like to say that, obviously, we have to collect the IOC; obviously, we have to regulate the FP in private presence. But we need to make it clear that these institutions are offering distance training to students outside the principality, and that, depending on how we understand this regulation, we can strangle these institutions and prevent them from developing their activities at a time when we need, precisely, resources to come to Catalonia and there is dynamism. And some of them may have the tempt to go to a hub that took place in Madrid to welcome them. Many thanks, President, the deputies and the deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maialen Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.44.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, good morning to you all. Confucius said: "Education generates confidence. Trust creates hope. And hope generates peace. This motion before us, concerning secondary and post-compulsory education, is as ambiguous as elementary is its execution, more, if any, taking into account the pandemic moment we live in. Who is not in favour of ensuring safety in educational establishments, strengthening adult training centres, or ensuring that unregulated music and dance teachings are properly active right now? But do you know what's going on? That this is just a paper that captures all the words we want to incorporate. The reality is quite different. And you, Podemos, are in the government of the Kingdom of Spain. And together with the Socialist Party – which... neither worker nor Spanish – and, how not? , along with their independenceist crutch of Esquerra, have just passed an education law, the Celaá law, a totalitarian law, lacking consensus and lack of any moral and social value. With this law Spanish has just been charged as the vehicle language of our country, which is no other than Spain; a language that, according to the Cervantes Institute, speaks more than 577_million people in the world, of which 480_million have it as their mother tongue, and study it 22_million people in one hundred_seven countries. I can't imagine Mrs Merkel or Mr Macron eliminating German in Germany or French in France. However, the immorality and pride of the rulers of the PSOE and Podemos, amen of the other tentacles adjacent to this aberration, leads us to an educational precipice that will entail the loss of several generations. And not only that, but they have taken a vicious attack on educational freedom by eliminating the concerted schools – which, by the way, in Catalonia so study a third of the students. And, unsatisfied with it, they have the defachability and low morality to phase out, too, special education schools. And, by the way, I remember today, December 3rd, is the International Day of Disability. The decrees established by Esquerra in Catalonia have been extrapolated to the Celaá law. We extrapolate the worst of every house and exceed the parents' right to freedom of choice. For the children are of the parents, not of the minister of duty. And with the hypocrisy that characterizes them, after hosting this educational cluster, they include in this motion point 8 to provide resources to the centers and address some of the educational needs that children have with these special needs. They do not sell us the fallacy of telling us that the resources for public education will increase, because, besides false, here is Esquerra, his partner, who has maintained the cuts initiated by Mr Mas in 2010. This is the left that you represent, and that today, unfortunately, governs us in Spain. Not to mention the shame that it supposes that the PSC gives more than thirteen_ thousand euros of our money to the platform that spies on underage children at any time of the day. At this point, it is worth mentioning a Spanish saying that is normally applicable to other menesteres, but so wise that it is extrapolable to the politicians who govern us today. And he says: "Promising, promising, even getting in; once you're in, you're done with the promised. Look, in Citizens we defend public education – we preach with the example: whoever speaks to them has always studied in it – but we also defend the private, the concerted. And, of course, we defend the freedom of choice of parents. Those of us who belong to the generation of the EGB taught us the value of effort; not to crawl, because, if not, you did not pass the course. And, above all, they taught us to think and use neurons correctly. Of course we can give it a different use to the neuron. As we said at the beginning, it is an ambiguous motion, while obvious. We are also grateful that you have accepted our amendment to include the extra-curricular sector. We shall therefore vote in favour of the points from one to six, as well as the ninth; against the seventh, and abstention from the eighth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, he has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Mr Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.46.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we'll vote in favour of all the points of the young lady, which seems timely and warm. We also have to say that we liked the initial text better, before transactions, but, despite that, we will continue to vote in favour of all points. Mirin, without exception to the problem and the crisis of primary education – due to lack of resources, lack of teaching, etc., because it is at these times, at the same time as the education model that applies to this government, a production machine of school segregation – we want to point out that we can talk about certain sectors of education in difficult or very difficult crisis: the school Bressol – we have not spoken many times –, for a very serious lack of investment of public resources, but obviously also the teaching of adults, in liquidation procedures for the policies of this government, which would be very important for us to continue to develop their inclusive, educational and social cohesion task in a crisis situation like we have and what we see. But we also need to talk about crisis, and a difficult crisis, in secondary education and in vocational training, not to mention the centres of musical and artistic education, which are safe spaces – which are secure spaces – which are still more serious about adequate public policies, and which are opposed to a policy that is unfettered, from our point of view. But we're talking about high school and vocational training. Vocational training in the process of dismantling for a privatisation bet; also for a general problem of the relationship of vocational training to which is the economic structure and economic model of the country, but also for a process of privatization that is absolutely grave. And the secondary school, lacking teaching resources, with excessive rates, with buildings in obsolescence, with a very important technological deficit, and with the staff, logically, very segregated, and, as well as the primary school, but especially in an accelerated process of generation of segregation. Therefore, it is necessary to reverse the educational model, it is necessary to change the educational model. The educational crisis of the Covid is an opportunity not to put pieces, but to transform the model of education so that it is a model of quality, inclusive, that really puts in place school segregation, that can give account and answer to the educational needs of always and the new emerging and growing that is generating this crisis. And that also calls for a major public investment. Therefore, we will give support to the present motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr. Daniel Serrano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.48.0	Thank you, President. From the seat. We have before us a broad motion on compulsory secondary education and post-compulsory education which calls for the compatibility of education and training with health guarantees in the current pandemic context, and therefore, as a general principle, we share this premise. The motion, to this end, relates a series of measures and aspirations that we can share and that we will support, from the optimization of the detection of positive cases between students and teachers, and also by ensuring that the spaces are properly ventilated – a rather obvious question, and it seems a lie that we have to ask – or also by ensuring that the education of non-regulated special regime of music and dance can continue its work normally in the current pandemic context, and that we also share. We can also share the action plan to compensate for the impact of the crisis, especially on school drop-out – there are interesting measures – as well as some other measures aimed at improving the quality of vocational training. The proposal to reduce fees and increase scholarships is also interesting. We believe that it is more a statement of intentions than a reality that has its reflection on the budget, especially in view of next year. And, therefore, we believe that it is a motion with positive aspects; others, not so much, because we believe that, rather than talking about issues that have to do with the current pandemic context, they have to do with ideological conditions, and we believe that, therefore, it would be interesting to have a more individualised debate on those aspects. And, therefore, those, in particular, we will not support them. The rest, yes, even knowing that the motion will remain in a mere declaration of intent, which, as such, is fine, but which, sadly, will not be a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, has a return to Congressman Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.50.0	Thank you. First of all, what I would like is to thank all the groups that have submitted papers, many of which we have been able to accept, some of them not, but in any case, now I will try to refer to the reasons. And I would like to focus here on the question of the FP, and especially because last week two orders related to this were issued, at the time of the bill, and we understand that without the necessary consensus with the educational community, right? Mirin, the FP has increased by 2,420 students and the Education Department, so it has only offered 1,752 new seats, which means an increase in the structural deficit of public places, right? The lack of forecasting to cover these needs of the young population is that these students either have to go to private, in private centers, or have to finish studying specialties that are not the desires, with a high risk of dropping out of school in this sense, and the high level that we have here in Catalonia has already been mentioned. For one band, online education – private – has absorbed this increase, and we have not just heard that in a pandemic situation, where we are all saying that what is witnessed, therefore, has ended up approving an order in which it is making a consolidation of the model of education at private distance a little to the fertilizer, with ninety students per teacher, with unorbited charges that clearly secret, but above all in the fact that the private is offering forty-five titles and, in change, to the online public, only fifteen. Therefore, there are many who offer themselves to the private and not to the public. And, finally – we have said this before – in relation to the curriculum reform of the FP, which is the other of the orders that have been published, we insist: we believe that to enhance the solid and consistent dual FP model in Catalonia does not need to modify the teaching load of all system titles by running the same curriculum to the cent_per_cent..., the same curriculum detailed to the cent_per_cent of the student. The data are: less than 5_percent of the student and 1_percent of the companies are attached. Therefore, we have not just heard this reform, which, moreover, we believe that you do not have the consensus and that now is not the time to throw it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be late, once the rest of the items on the agenda have been substantial, in concrete terms, after the tretze point. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public communication media]] [[302-00267/12]] We now turn to the new point of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the question to the Government about the public communication media, of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. To expose the young man, has the word the deputy Ignacio Martín [[Funnel veils]] Tell me you're not in the hemicicle. In any case, the group would have to warn you, because if you don't show up at the time the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case, I am told that I have moved to the groups, from the presidency, that, as we have advanced more quickly than was anticipated in the plenary schedule, the plenary sequence, all points will go ahead than they were expected, and, in this case, it is also a woman. This point was set for 11.40 and it's time to substance it right now. The proposed group, do you know if this...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you don't... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. They tell me, the group, if they're available; if not, we'll make a suspension of the plenary for five minutes, and if not, we'll resume with this new point of the order of the day, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, all right. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.52.0	Excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.53.0	No, no. I was explaining that the Ple advanced over the scheduled schedule, and therefore it was reasonable that you were not in the Chamber, as neither was the Councillor. In any case, make this warning, that the schedule of the whole sequence of the plenary has advanced. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, now we're all there. Let us resume the session with the new item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the communication media presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. And, to expose it, it has the word, now yes, the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.54.0	Thank you, President. Sorry I'm late, ladies and gentlemen. I was just preparing some things and I didn't know about this advance of the session time. Well, today we present a motion following the inquiry that we did last week on the quality of public media in our community, both TV3 and Catalunya Radio. And it is especially important for us to put forward some aspects that seem to us to be especially bloody or especially difficult in the work of our public media. Let us consider, as citizens of Catalonia, that it is normal that the conjunction of the city of Catalonia, already follows the lines, the sides, the independents, the constitutionalists, or that they simply remain apolitical, at last, must have the right or have the right to have public communication means that respect plurality, that respect information neutrality, that respect a principle of truthfulness and a will to, if not, transmit a minimally objective information to the city of Catalonia. Well, that, unfortunately, is not what we have in Catalonia. We have some public media that are the ones that have had the most condemnations on the part of the administrative bodies that are dedicated to analysis and to vetting for plurality, for netness... in short, for the good margin of electoral processes. They've been condemned, our communication media, on two occasions in this legislature. They are public communication media, unfortunately, more condemned to the length of the history of our democracy. And, therefore, we consider that the citizens of Catalonia have a right to have communication media that respects political pluralism, that respects neutrality and that ultimately respects the diversity of Catalan society. Unfortunately, Catalonia's public communication media in recent years, or since 2012, have become, as we have already said, an authentic apparatus of agitation and propaganda for the sake of a political cause, for the sake of the cause of separatism. And this could have a meaning if we were talking – and it would still be questionable –..., if we were talking about private media still felt, but we didn't have it in absolute terms as public media. This is so clearly marked in favour of the separatist parties that it is very clear when we see certain collaborators or even presenters of public television in Catalonia who are directly dedicated to insulting the citizens and political leaders of constitutionalism or journalists who defend the cause of constitutionalism or the unity of Spain, in short, of the coexistence between Catalans and between Catalans and the rest of Spanish. For example, when the presenter of a TV3 program and also a collaborator of Catalonia Radio, Mr. Jair Domínguez, hinted..., he did not imply it, said clearly that Mrs. Anna Grau, a commentator, a political analyst who collaborates with various communication media, and, in this case, in a Spanish TV program... She said, Mrs. Anna Grau, that in Catalonia there was a system, therefore, client, of subsidies, which makes a grant as a Platform for Language, which is dedicated to spying on Catalan children in the country to see which language they speak, a truth that is absolutely incontestable, that, in the past, there was a better way to do so. I think it is essential that the public media in Catalonia withdraw all collaboration with collaborators who say things like this to their social networks. Because, I insist, if this were in a private media, it would still be acceptable, but in a public media it is absolutely unacceptable. And from here, from our parliamentary group, we want to send all of our escalph, a message of support to Mrs.Anna Grau, to dare to tell the truth in a means of communication – in this case, to Spanish Television – and for the campaign of attitude that has had to suffer from eixelebrates, in many cases, and from people who have been slow, as, in this case, Mr.Jair Domínguez, who has insulted her only to tell the truth. We are at the door of an autonomous election that will be expected on February 14, and what we are asking of this chamber is that it is a commitment to demand that the public media in Catalonia respect, if not more... I believe that it always goes, not only in the electoral period, but, if not more, in the electoral period, these essential principles of neutrality, objectivity and respect for the political pluralism of Catalan society. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.55.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has now the word the deputy David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.56.0	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Councillor, Members, Members, we do not like the whole of Ciutadans in this House, despite the efforts made by the Member who presented it, of the text, of the expressions, mainly for a reason: because it is not a matter of consensus, it is not a matter of looking to reach agreements, of looking to talk about what unites us. Nor do we like the way in which most of the groups have presented the March programme in this Parliament, only between the two groups that conform the majority of this chamber, expel the rest of it. That's not what our public media needs. Think we should always try to find elements of coincidence. It is in this sense that we thank the Group of Citizens for having accepted any of our papers, and, in this sense, I already announce that we will vote in favour of four points of his motion. And it's hard for us, but there's not been any other exams, which means we can't vote in favor of any other points of your young lady. Let's talk about this young man, who, somehow, is also a certain account of what happened in our public media. And you're right: the management of the corporation's economic resources is an absolutely inefficient management, it's a futile one. We've said it over and over again, we see how we have to go from the corporation to the government to ask for money so they don't get there. It has been presided over, managed, for lack of transparency, for judicialization, for conflicts with the Electoral Board and, above all, for the repeated failure of its style book. We also believe that – and we want to make this very clear –........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And in that we have all the reason for the world; that is, the CAC should do much more than it is doing, but it is not competent in the electoral period. We agree that, on the subject of Tertullians, the proposal made by Mr Sanchis is not acceptable. They can't be responsible for each program, but we need to talk, in this case, about the same direction as the corporation. We have not, unfortunately, agreed on the subject of language either – I insist, badly. I sincerely believe that the message that we had presented was very much in line with what we have once also spoken about the use of the castle in our public media. Let's read it publicly: «... to the band of legislation that affects the use of languages and the existence of three co-official languages in Catalonia, so that it is given to the castle the treatment of normality to public communication media as language known and used also for the citizens of Catalonia and as a reflection of the diversity and linguistic richness of our society, without falling into reprobable situations, as it has on various occasions, and has not been translated simultaneously or subtitled. We think it was a theme that was in the sense and in the experience of which the theme of Ciutadans marks, and we don't understand, in this sense, why it wasn't accepted. This will lead us to the fact that we cannot vote in favour, therefore, of the language asides. In any case, I insist, and we will say again, public media needs consensus, they need agreement, they need dialogue between opposition groups and government groups, and, in this sense, they will always find us at the PSC. We have tried to improve, from our point of view, his proposal. We thank, I insist, that they have accepted certain items. And, in this sense – and I finish, Mr President – in some places we will vote in favour and in others, unfortunately, we will have to vote against or we cannot vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix her position, she has the first word, the deputy Marta Ribas, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.58.0	We return with the déjà-vu, Ciutadans in loop: every several months, the same motion. Sometimes with a little more sweaty, sometimes harder, sometimes with some current element of the moment; always the same, though. Always the same. And, therefore, I will say the same thing again. And every time they introduced him in the last few months, I said to him: "You go into a loop. And so do we, so let's not change our minds; let's keep thinking the same thing, let's keep defending the same thing. They read again what the professionals of TV3 and Catalunya Radio passed the year approved in a manifesto of the assembly of these workers. They say: "For the last few years the corporation has suffered from the internal wars of the governing parties and the virulent attacks on the part of the parliamentary opposition. This operation undermines the credibility of public television and radio, and it has to end. Fifteen days ago..., go, not fifteen days, in a meeting of the spokespersons of the commission of the corporation with the business committees of Catalonia Radio and Television of Catalonia..., they repeated to us, they asked us again: "Please see an electoral campaign. You didn't use TV3 and Catalunya Radio with the electoral trigger. It hurt a public service in the country, using it this way. Citizens, another shot – and we're still not in the campaign – comes back, with the same theme. I'll go back to explaining what it is that really depends on the government to come back and the majority of the government to come back to our public communication media. They're addicts who haven't contracted a program since 2009. And that makes every year, any year, to depend on the economic negotiation of resources; economic dependence that makes them end up having political dependence. All folded, too, because there is a direction that responds more to the game that put them there than to the tasks to be developed. And why change that, as much as one circumstance as the other, what's the matter? So what you don't need is to use the corporate media electorally. What's important is to sign a program contract that gives real autonomy to governments to return to public communication media. And that the governing bodies of the corporation are changed with reinforced majorities, with independent profiles; that we comply with the law that we passed in this Parliament in this legislature. And we will finish the legislature without having done it, by lack of will and capacity of the large groups of this chamber – and you are the main group of this chamber, Ciutadans, the largest – to weave consensus, thanks, among others, to the block and block policy that has been installed in this Parliament the last few years, largely also favored by Ciutadans. Therefore, blames distributed; that each one assume his own. But let's solve the problem that we share, that public communication means every time are more intense in their plurality, it's not a solution with the proposals that you have here on the table. It's resolved with a program contract and it's resolved by changing the Corporate Governance Council. Catalans don't deserve to continue playing with public media in this way. Just as I repeat that we are totally in the antipodes of which you have raised respect for linguistic themes. And I'll tell you what the State of Catalonia says, that you don't have to read. Literally... the Statute of Catalonia says that if the Catalan and the castle are official languages and the citizenry has the right to use any of the two, and also the orange, as far as public administrations and public communication means are concerned, the normal and preferred language of use is the Catalan. Therefore, they are not right in the point they write that you say that, to guarantee the rights of the citizenry and what they say the Statute and the Constitution, so that they use equally Catalan, Castilian and Aranian. That is not what the Statute of Catalonia says, and the Statute of Catalonia is constitutional. I'm done. What's behind these city loop motions is the attempt to weaken a public service, the attempt to weaken Catalonia's public communication media. You're the one who wants to lock them up. They do not lose occasion, as they also do in this motion in another point, to ask for resources to be collected. Now they say that, at least, a 50_per_cent, is 'lsretallin' – they say in this motion. Look, we want to make them stronger. We want them better, more plural – obviously – more public service, but we want them strong, with all the resources. Because public communication means are there to guarantee the citizen's right of information – that's also what the State of Catalonia says – and not to guarantee the government's rights to return. Therefore, we will vote against all the points of this young man, tired, tired, very tired, already, of the constant and infinite loop of Ciutadans on this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.60.0	Good morning. Members and Members, we are at the end of the parliamentary term, but it seems that we are on the first day, because, grabbing the thread of Mrs Ribas, on the loop of the motions of the Ciutadans Group in relation to public media, it is very obvious: nine points that we have debated and that we have voted on many occasions to the Parliament of Catalonia, with various nuances, versions and declines, on how to attack public communication media from their perspective. It's legitimate, but they don't have a majority in this room, they don't. They do not have a majority of the questions raised here. And, just here, trying to make a little closure of this cycle... I'm sure it's the last piece of public media we're debating in this legislature, and I'd say there's a lot of people out there who don't have a debate. In this sense, they have merit, with persistence – it has been a merit – but despite persistence they have not managed to generate consensus, and this too I believe is something that a reflection wants. They have not managed to add a few majorities because their view of the public media is still a majority. Although they are the majority group of this chamber, they do not have a majority for what they do in the eyes of public media. Nor do they have a majority in this will to eradicate and shut down TV3 and Catalunya Radio. They don't have it. The other day, precisely, it was in a debate with the companies and audiovisual producers of Catalonia, and, of course, the representative of Ciutadans is committed to external production. I mean, it's all toast to the sun before the producers and the audiovisual entrepreneurs. But he said to him, "Look, this is incoherent – not only in a young man, but in a statement to Ciutadans' assumptions –, "to demand that the reversal and expenditure of TV3 is reduced by 50_per_cent is totally incoherent. He can't be at Mass and repicious. Therefore, you lie to the company of the audiovisual production of Catalonia. And I finish, I said, trying to close the cycle. Yes, it is true that they have achieved one thing, and in this I understand that there is also this persistence: the fact that you have made this constant attack against public media, against language, causes the groups that truly have criticisms of TV3 and Catalonia Radio, of their governance. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , as the government – and I finish – wants to influence the activity of public media..., makes its virulence avoid, or that costs a lot to groups that do want plurality and diversity in media...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.61.0	You're out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.62.0	...that we can go in and brush these essential questions and better ones, that not only the professionals, but also the workers of the house, have been asking us for a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.64.0	And also, all major groups – I finish – take responsibility for the situation of public media.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.65.0	All right, thank you. Next is the return of Deputy Daniel Serrano, of the Subgroup of the Catalonia People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.66.0	Thank you, Vice President. From this seat, to announce our support for the motion. A motion that, of all that he asks, basically we have two aspects that we believe to be essential. On the one hand, the need to have neutral, plural and respectful public media in Catalonia, which unfortunately does not happen at the moment. On the other hand, we also share another important aspect of the motion, and it is the need of the public media in Catalonia to have a special sensitivity to the current pandemic situation, which should therefore be adjusted budgetaryly so that this heading can be allocated to the fight against the economic and social consequences of the Covid. And in those adjustments, of course, I am not referring to workers' rights, but I am referring to an important part of that budget which is now indispensable in order to be able to devote it to what is truly important. Therefore, a motion calling for a neutral and non-governmental public media in Catalonia, which is precisely what is not happening at the moment. And since this will not be possible in this legislature, let us trust that, after the ballot box on 14 February, a new majority will emerge that can put an end to this situation which is already taking too long in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.67.0	Thank you, President. Now it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Parole has the deputy Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.68.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, MPs, MPs, let's have a Ciutadans movement here again that attacks two of our country's foundational pillars: communication media and language. For what he does to the media, they continue to use the judicial language – a harsh, blunt language – to try to generate the image that the media of the corporation, and in particular TV3 – that they have between cell and cell – are, in his words, « tools of propaganda and manipulation. If one thing we have to recognize – and other Members have made it before me – it is his ability to insist on this. Do not let any opportunity escape to attack the public image of the media in this country. But, of course, these ways of doing are neither new nor original. We have seen this in the United States at a later stage, where the President... in fact, President Donald Trump has also devoted himself to undermining the credibility of North American communication media. I – little joke, huh? – it has managed to make a good part of its electorate questions the professionalism and rigour of media like The New York Times, The Washington Post or CNN. And, as it seems that they don't like it, so, what is said in the public media of this country, is dedicated to undermining its image. Not from the discrepancy, which, logically, they can hold in the contents, and which is totally legitimate, but from the bloodiest attack, always, at every occasion, at every moment, at every committee, at every plethora. This young man, like all those who have brought in this Ple, or like all his interventions to the Commission for the Control of the Activities of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans, is an exhibition of the strategy they carry between hands. They're perfectly aware of what they're chasing. In one of the points of this motion – I refer to the companies that have preceded me – come up, even with arguments of all kinds – that the Member of the People's Party has also served – to propose a 50_percent decrease in the public media assumption, at a time when media have so many difficulties in moving forward, at a time when the context and audiovisual landscape have changed, right? , that they need a transformation, and that this transformation also needs an economic reversal. They know perfectly well that this reduction would suppose the death sentence of the public media in this country, and this is serious. And maybe that's what they're looking for: turning the public media in this country into a residual or folk element, something that doesn't make them much of us. In this young man let's see again the way Ciutadans, that I suppose when they talk about political neutrality or political pluralism, they have to talk about the photo on the entire front page of the candidate Inés Arrimadas al Diari La Razón the day of reflection. Which, when they talk about neutrality in public space, they have to talk about that the ties are taro and not dark, because the taro is the color of their party – that must be neutrality. That, when they talk about linguistic rights in Catalonia, I suppose they refer to the linguistic rights that we have Catalan people speaking when we go to justice or when we go to cinema, that we have a whole 1_per_cent– a 1_per_cent, huh? , we can feel lucky – from cinema in our language. That, when they say independence is confrontation, I suppose they don't have to talk about campaigning, always on time accompanied by television cameras, to the people and cities of people under political pressure or exiles, which surely helps to understand and concord. These are neutrality, bilingualism and plurality that defend Citizens. And lastly, for what the use of language is, no, mirin, we have already told them by active and passive: we will not buy them in any way this liberal fallacy about the languages that they want us to believe. The languages – we have said it repeatedly – do not self-regulate in the market. The català and the castle do not leave in case of the same point. And if not, I invite you to an exercise, you and the people who may be following us from home: start TV, switch over all the channels that are tuned to TDT, and, after doing so, ask honestly whether, from the linguistic point of view, what it is to increase the presence of the castle on TV3. They honestly ask this question, and they answer honestly if what it takes is to strengthen the castle to TV3, if we're talking about linguistic rights. We will vote against this young man, this man, and all the Ciutadans' motions who seek to attack the public media, who seek to attack the Catalan school, who seek to attack the language. Because language, school and media have been, are and will remain an element of cohesion in this country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, MP Mònica Sales has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.70.0	Thank you, Vice President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, staff of the house and also all those people who are following us through the channels facilitated by our Parliament... Being able to use this Faristol to debate this motion is for me a gift, just when forty months of TV3 leadership in our country, unbroken historical record. I debuted here on May 3, 2018 with a motion for a resolution to fight the attack on the defense committee of the republic. And today I close this cycle of interventions with a new attack on the public communication media of Catalonia in Ciutadans. Time goes by, but his mindset doesn't change: attack, chasm, confrontation... They can repeat lies as often as they happen, but that's not why they're going to make it true. Whenever they can, they repeatedly question the plurality and independence of the Catalan public media and, in the past, take advantage of the occasion to attack the Catalan language, which for you is a parent and for me is the proper language. Congressman Riera, with whom I have shared the work in this young man, and Councilwoman Budo have exposed in this faristol, young man re-motive and interpellation re-interpellation, all the objective arguments that defeat his subjective and tendentious arguments. We must share all that Catalonia wants and deserves some high-quality public media, competitive and serving the country, and thirty-seven years back, the same ones that I have, when the corporation was created, everyone agreed that they had a function: to age for Catalan language and Catalan identity. Now we need this same compromise, also for what it does to these cabdal functions, because the Catalan language, minority, sees a distressing situation and its future depend on us. Public media is essential because the català follows a normal and useful language, because only useful languages survive. That's not a reason why you say with a full mouth that TV3 is independent, for example, because when you say that you are challenging all sorts of credibility indexes and also challenging plurality studies, where always – always – TV3 is more plural than you see. They can continue with their song of addoctrination, but they won't get along, because the Catalan Audiovisual Council issues very comprehensive reports on the observance of pluralism, and look at how data will always find the same result: TV3 and Catalonia Radio are not only plural, but are the most plural media in Catalonia. These prejudices that you have can only be real if you falsify the data from the reports, and they don't have to steal it from us either. They have years of denouncing this lack of pluralism of the Catalan public media, but during a good bunch of years they repeatedly refused interview petitions. So, what are we staying at? The summary we can do because it's easy: complaints, attacks, and that language we're always talking about today, and we're already used to. I don't want to go into detailing the young lady's points, but the willingness they have to reduce the pressure to point 4 is a minor, already told by the people who preceded me in the word. Admitting the communication media doesn't mean untying the parties to fight the Covid; this is cheap demagogic. They could not hide and openly demand that the parties press to open the democratic freedom of Catalonia's citizens at the time of accessing communication media made at our home in our language. To be able to comment constructively on aspects that do not like public media is lawful, we do so whenever we consider it, but to do this from a point of view constructuu do not need to make a statement to the totality of the work of many people from professionalism and rigour, as you do Plere rerere plere and commission rerererere commission. All the support for the public media in our country and for all the people who work there, also taking into account that, like public servants, they have as their mission to promote and promote Catalan and Orange. Maybe the day you didn't hear the motius will be late. Catalonia is lucky enough to count with a number of means of reference that have a high quality and are leaders years back. This is not said by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, nor by this deputy subjectively, it is said by the CEO's barometer objectively. TV3 expands the difference with the rest of channels as the preferred channel to inform. Poor, indoctrinate people who contribute to it. They mustn't know what they're doing. Our vote in the House is a no-round at all points. You can refrain from your usual pitching speech. From Junts per Catalunya a yes to the Catalan public media, a yes to its undisputed leadership and a yes to plurality. And a yes to the Catalan language, of cohesion, of respect and of identity. Paraphraser Raimon the day after congratulating him on his eighty-eighth anniversary: "This is my language and I shall not give up on it, and it is now. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce now on the papers, finally has the word the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.72.0	Thank you, President. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the nationalist parties, I will try to be brief and, as always, respect you. When you, Mrs. Sales, say that this is your language and that you don't have to give it up, actually, it's also one of my languages and I don't have to give it up. The catalá is also one of my languages, as are many of my fellow members from the Ciutadans bench, the Popular Party, the Socialist Party. Therefore, not patrimonialize the Catalan language, which is not only of the nationalist parties, but of the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia. The same way I say this about the Catalan language, I say exactly the same about the Spanish language. The Spanish language is a heritage of the citizens of Catalonia, and the only one we repeatedly ask for and systematically is that there is a respect for the linguistic plurality of our society, of our community, which is essentially bilingual, which has as many majority languages – not only, but also majority languages – the Catalan and the Castilian languages. Therefore, our proposal is precisely this. And stop saying that we want to end the Catalan language, because this is a huge fallacy, it's a fallacy of sidereal dimensions. We want to protect and promote the català exactly like the castle because they are the first two languages of the citizens of Catalonia, no more or less. The same thing we do on TV3. We consider that the Catalans... against what some of the nationalist MPs say, we do not want, of course, because we have never wanted to, to turn TV3 on. What we want is for the citizens of Catalonia to have the best public media in Spain, the best public media in our democratic environment, and that does not go so far as to have some media that are the most condemned for lack of neutrality, lack of respect for pluralism and lack of objectivity. They're asking for a little respect for the truth. If you want to attack what Ciutadans says, attack us by telling us about it or criticizing what we do today, but not putting in our mouth things that are absolutely false and that the only way you have to try to win this debate about chicken flying that they plant is by lying about what we do today. I insist: the Catalan and the castle are our two languages, and you will never assume that here there is a division between Spanish-speaking and Catalan-speaking, which is what you want, because you want to leave the castle outside the public space of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote, like the rest, will be after the day's agenda, this late. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into responses to the health, economic and social crisis]] [[302-00271/12]] We're moving on to the top of the order of the day. I understand that the Member proposing is here. I give them a moment to wander in and out. I don't know if the people who follow us are aware that, for the health reasons that we all know, the deputies have to go in and out of the Chamber, but they're all here at the Parliament building, and we'll wait for them to get in and out to intervene in their turn. It has the word, to expose the young lady, the deputy Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.74.0	Good morning again, deputies, deputies. A motion tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, which, in fact, is the last motion of this parliamentary subgroup, of a legislature that has certainly been intense and misguided by, obviously, the crisis of the Covid in this past year. We have four observations and nine proposals, which are also the fruit of our work with the rest of the parliamentary groups. The day we asked the question that gave fruit to this young man, we asked Councilwoman Budó different questions about the need to increase resources in order to be able to spend to deal with the health, social and economic emergency in which we live. Mrs. Budó, the adviser, was obviously talking about the tax deficit, the "Madrid robs us." And, of course, we know perfectly well that the tax deficit is a problem; that's right, it's obvious and we already said it that day at the inquiry. But we also know that the situation in the country wants to deploy public policies at the highest level in order to achieve all the resources needed to achieve the necessary social and public expenditure. And it is in this sense that we have made some proposals; some that we, girls say, understand that from our point of view, from our political agenda, are proposals of the least. Some of them believe that there are, as I said, four agreements, four observations that what they do to us is to make political commitments. First of all, for what he does under the deputies and deputies. For what he does to our sous, we have proposed to make a reduction of the 14 percent of our sous, because we understand, I insist, that our sous, the sous of each of us, are far removed from the social reality that our country sees. What we cover at the end of the year has nothing to do with what the working people of our country are charging. And this has a concrete material consequence: the obvious distance between our lives and the lives of the workers and workers of most of this country. And it turns out that in my speech I am included, but they will let me do the parenthesis because they know perfectly well that the Members of the CUP have a self-limitation and that we cover between 1,500 and 1,800_ euros in relation to the family situation we have; a limitation under which it wants to be exemplary to lie down in this social reality of the workers of our country. We understand that in a context of crisis..., if the political class subs are deorbited and are stretched from social reality, in a context of crisis it is imperative to make a reduction of the subs; not only of the deputies, but of all the higher ranks of the government and also of the same government. It can't be that we have almost millionaire wages. And we understand that this doesn't mean that you have to have a son of an austerity and... no. Obviously, under just for the job it's done. But the shielding of privileges that has taken place through the political class is very important. I'd say we've come to a few minor agreements, for example, for what you're doing at the bottom. Fix, I'll try to explain agreement 1 to what we've come up with with groups that support the government. We insist, we want to lower the 14_per_cent, but we understand that it is a minimum agreement that in the first quarter of 2021 this chamber agrees to reduce the compensations or the concept of compensations of our name. I'll be very quick to explain them - here: this is my name. There is an important part that are wage perceptions, which would be, therefore, the sou. But there is a very important part that are non-wage perceptions, that is that these days are on the table, the debate about diets and displacements, and that people say: "Home, if Members work telematically, why do they continue to collect diets and displacements? But what we all know is that we all carry all this time in the concept of diets and displacements an undercover son, who doesn't pay more as a salary. This has to be done. It has to be regulated. What I am, is I am, and what diets and displacements are, are diets and displacements. I've given you permission to review it. We also propose to reduce, in a three-month period, by 14 per cent the sum of the members of the Government and other bodies. Let's hope that we get the majority needed for this policy compromise to lower the money. We have also made them different proposals for which it increases expenditure, for which it also creates a study table. We set up a study table on basic income, because we understand that it is a key tool to deal with the days and times that come to our country. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We have succeeded – I finish, President – that this table of work can analyze all the tools – the vital minimum income, guaranteed income... – that can be useful to face the difficult unemployment and the difficult situation that the workers of our country see.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend now the papers presented, has the word, first place, the deputy Noemi de la Calle, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.76.0	Good morning, or good afternoon. The Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent brings us this motion on the answers to the health, economic and social crisis. On the one hand, it analyses the management of the Government and puts to the vote some of the observations that we have sought to put to the vote with our amendments. They tell us about a universal basic income as a tool to redistribute poverty. We believe that Catalonia already consists of a key tool in favour of social justice and redistribution of wealth, which is the guaranteed income of citizenship. The problem is that the Generalitat has never provided it with sufficient human and economic resources to fulfil its role. Why? For the Generalitat's continued disregard for the laws and resolutions adopted by this Parliament. Let us remember: the Children's Act, the Housing Act, the Accessibility Act, the Catalan Sign Language Act, the regulation of the LGTBI Act; all are therefore in a drawer without display. Or that audit of the DGAIA by the children's funds, which we asked from Citizens and which was approved, and which, well, there they are without being made. Or, for example, the extraordinary gratification to the cleaning, laundry and cooking workers of the residences, which this Government excluded by pure classism. And for this reason we are submitting an amendment, which we are grateful that it has been accepted, to point out that this contempt is not something motivated by the arrival of the Covid, but a usual modus operandi of the Government since the beginning of the legislature. A legislature characterized, therefore, as the motion says, isn't it? , because of the shame that we have felt many for the irresponsibility of a government more sensitive to the electoral context and the internal disputes themselves than to save lives and jobs, which is what citizens now need. On the other hand, the motion attempts to give a number of responses to the crisis. He's asking for an increase in spending, something we agree on. However, not by raising taxes to drown even further the middle and working classes, but as we pointed out in the addendum amendment that has been accepted, which is by prioritizing economic resources, by eliminating those indispensible expenses that we all know and that serve only to feed the government's manger. On the issue of housing, we welcome the acceptance of an amendment by Citizens to ensure that the Generalitat complies, once and for all, with the provisions of Law 18/2007, on the right to housing, allocating all the necessary resources for the 15_per_cent of the housing stock to be of social use, as required by law. Because the non-existent housing policies that have had the different governments that have been paraded by the Generalitat are regrettable. And with regard to salaries in relation to..., first of all, in relation to Members. We shall vote in favour of the compromise reached in connection with point 1. I would like to thank Mrs Sànchez for the amendment of the original text, in which only the honourable Members were asked, as I said yesterday. And I say this because I personally understand the use of female language in certain forums, in a way of awareness, about androcentrism or knee-to-eye. However, as can be seen in the original text of the motion, doing so in legal or formal texts, in a context such as the texts of the Parliament of Catalonia, which are binding, can cause the opposite effect. Because if we accept the literality of paragraph 1 of the original motion, what was being asked is that the salary should be lowered to the Members and not to the Members, and, as you will understand, because we could not throw on the ground years of struggle for the rights of equality and women's rights by voting in favour of an agreement that only called on the Members to lower their salaries. We welcome this decision, and I say that we will be voting in favour of the text that is finally put to the vote, as my parliamentary group has been advocating in the Bureau of this Parliament precisely what is reflected in the agreement that is finally put to the vote since the last parliamentary term. With respect to the Government's salaries. The original proposal referred to high offices in the departments, but did not include the Government. We therefore welcome the acceptance of our amendment to reduce by 14_per_cent the salaries of members of the Government of the Generalitat in addition to the high posts, and to allocate such savings, therefore, to reverse the cuts and consequences of the health crisis caused by the Covid, with a particular impact on population groups in a situation of special vulnerability, including in those cuts the councillors, because, in some cases, rather than lowering their salaries, what we would have to do is to ask them to return what they have received during these months in which they have done nothing but aggravate the situation with their decisions. And we regret that our request for the elimination of the privileges of a retributive nature of the former Presidents of the Generalitat, the former Presidents of the Parliament and the former Councillors has not been accepted. I shall conclude my speech by announcing that, with the exception of two points, we will vote in favour of the motion. And we also want to ask this government to wake up, stop looking at the navel and start looking at the world out there, a world that, far from raising borders, is doing what it is doing is uniting to deal with the pandemic and its consequences. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Jordi Orobtig, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.78.0	Well, thank you very much, Vice President. Members, Members, Councillor... Well, we find ourselves with a motion, in this case of the CUP, to give answers or to face the health, economic and social crisis, and, in the end, a series of proposals are being put in place that, from our point of view, the one they are pursuing is an optimization of resources precisely to equip parties with assumptions to respond to this situation. That's all right, man, we can't help the moment we find ourselves, at the time of a few elections, and we also understand that some of the proposals are spreading populism, huh? And that from this point of view must be understood. I would like to detract from, respect the wide number of proposals that articulate, some agreements that are related to the independence of this chamber and to the necessary respect that it deserves – and that, therefore, I believe that all groups should share it –: the agreements relating to the necessary compliment of the legislation that emanates from this very Parliament – and that I also want to understand that all groups should endorse it –; some agreements that the obvious objective, from our point of view, is the wear and tear of the government and the political forces that make it, and in this case we understand it in electoral or populist clout. And we only understand it this way, because the complicity he found at the time of basing some transactional issues has been precisely with the Ciutadan Group, to which he asks because in the communities where he governs he has the same ambition that he demonstrates respect for the objectives, in this case of the public authorities, not only of the Parliament, but also of the Government. We have worked in the fourth type of agreements, which are those that we understand to be constructive and that it is those that we have tried to build with these negotiated issues, that precisely the objective must be to serve or to serve the globality of the citizens of our country, regardless of their ideology and political formation to which they wish, right? They have to see, as it is in the transactions that we have articulated, therefore, with the creation of the study table on the formulas of struggle against long-term unemployment, among other extremes; that they also have to see resources put in place to increase expenditure in the face of the social and economic crisis and to strengthen public health, requiring the Government of the State, also, to approve a rescue plan with direct help to the most affected sectors, and to guarantee direct help for the workers and workers most affected by the crisis. And at this point we wouldn't understand another result that it wasn't the unanimity of the whole chamber, because I think it's our obligation to go for the rights of our citizens. And, therefore, insist before the Government of the State that, in the exercise of its powers, therefore, media to help not only physical persons, families, but also businesses and self-governments, who are affected by these circumstances, and those who, until today, have only helped the Government of the Generality with its precarious media, media that you know as well as we do. While there is a very large set of measures and agreements that are being put in place, there is obviously a star point, and I believe that in this case the proposed Member has devoted 90 per cent of her intervention to talking about one aspect, that is, remuneration, and made a special element of the remuneration regime of the Members of this House. And, of course, there is an indisputable reality, which is the one that has made explicit, that the name of a Member is articulated with the remuneration that it receives as such and also with a game that it has to see..., with a game of displacements. But this circumstance is not new, nor has it been denounced now, nor is it approaching for the first time now. The same Rules, today, already count with a transitory disposition that what it does, in fact, is to put dues in Parliament to look to regularize this situation. And I believe that all groups are aware that a certain amount of work has been done for a long time – and also this legislature, under the presidency of President Roger Torrent – to look to put the needle in this matter. We swallow it completely and we also swallow it, so that this process is likely to accelerate. And what we say and what we believe in this way doesn't mean that we don't fall into the mistake of hearing that any remuneration that public authorities perceive is over, that's what anyone could hear respecting these agreements. We must dignify politics. For us, whether the public authorities or the deputies perceive an adequate remuneration is a triumph of the modest classes and the lefts of this country. What we cannot do is leave politics in the hands of the benevolent classes, of those who have heritage, who can dedicate themselves to it because the rest of their time is idle. I believe that we must guarantee the right of any citizen in power – in this case, in the public sector – to receive a decent remuneration that allows him to exercise his public representation task in a dignified manner. To do the opposite would be an error and I think it is an error that we cannot afford. And especially we can't afford the lefts of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Group of Joints for Catalonia, and has the word the deputy Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.80.0	Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members, is a member of the CUP, I would say « an intelligent and, moreover, as negotiated, it is intelligent because it will obtain approval, if not from all points, of the great majority of points, and it is an ambitious and it is not easy to achieve it. And, therefore, to congratulate this intelligence, because it is organized in a way, therefore, that it has flushed itself in some way... well, that they will have to rethink. I therefore congratulate Mrs Natalia. And I'm honestly saying that, that's right. There are three themes. I like to organize a mike of proposals and I get three themes. One is a proposal that you have to see how to get out of this crisis situation that we are in, and we support it and thank it for the facility that we have been able to deal with. They are proposed, for example, to include the award of aid; to make proposals to give an answer to the needs of housing, to the need for control of public expenditure, etc. All of this... absolutely in favour of these proposals. Then there is another group in the motion you have to see – and here I would add, a little, to the adjective used by Congressman Orobtig, the qualification of "populist; I don't know if I would be well enough to use it, knowing who formulated it, but... –, which is the subject of the detail of the subs. We are grateful that we could get to this deal at the first point, because what it does is simply the compliment of a provision in the Rules and that it is true that it must address the names of the Members, our names. And, therefore, that's what we're talking about. On the subject of higher salaries, we believe, as I will try to argue later, that the responsibilities must also have a certain salary recognition. And that's not against justice. And to explain a little bit more of this last statement that I am saying, on the basis – and I would like to extend it to the half of my intervention – in a debate that I think is very important and fundamental, that is the debate on universal income. There are two points, which are discussed in this young man, which are the points of how to respond to the situations that our system creates of long-term unemployment, of a poor woman established in the system, many times even linked to wages and salaries. I mean, work isn't enough, sometimes, to get out of the poor. To give an answer to this, there are different ways. There is the way of universal income, guaranteed income, minimum income, etcetera, and they can be different. But they are not innocent, the different forms, but they are loaded with ideology, they are loaded in a way to hear the social organization. And here's where we have a good time. Universal income is a tool that is based only on the principle– and that more than that is already a classic debate, which is Marx's debate with Gotha, etc.– whether society needs to respond to the basic needs of citizens. We all agree on that. We fully agree that society must respond to the... Today is International Disability Day. The needs of the disabled are not the needs of the disabled, they are the needs of the society's joint venture and, therefore, we must assume them as such. And we absolutely agree on that. What happens, from a Marxist, communist perspective – legitimate, but we do not share – is that justice is reduced exclusively to serving the needy and oblivious to another principle, and it is to serve and recognize the merits. I can't imagine a class in which someone who has tried and is doing a test is given the same as another who does it badly; the merits are to be recognized, the responsibilities are to be recognized, and it is also fair to make this recognition. So, there's a tool that's..., there's a series of conditions, guaranteed income, that make you cover the needy, but not everyone for the simple fact..., equally, without any differences of merit, has this same answer, so to speak, from society. I find it hard to imagine parties that are called liberals, parties that are called non-anti-system, not anti-capitalists, that support these initiations; but each one will consciously do what he believes, in some way. Therefore, yes, to the answer to the needy; yes, there we will find, because the needy of a person are needy of the conjunction, but it is also the recognition of the merits as based on a society that wants to be just. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix her position, has the first sentence, the deputy Alicia Romero, of the PSC Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.82.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, Councilwoman Budó. Well, today the UPC presents us with a very similar motion that we also approved a few plenary sessions of the Socialist Group. I don't know if it makes them think, to the government, that if all groups of different political colors come here to tell them that there are some things that aren't going well, I don't know if it would be time to reflect, although we are, therefore, at the end of this legislature. And I'm telling you why we all agree, the groups, that there is a lack of government at this institution, which is the institution of Parliament, and it is because they never or almost never complete the resolutions that are being adopted here. We have not approved many, during this pandemic, and the truth is that these resolutions, despite being approved, do not end up being completed by the government. This is a clear understatement of this institution. I don't want to be with others we have in Catalonia, who I think have also been underprivileged or, as a matter of fact, are discredited; but clearly the Parliament. One at the end is the feeling of coming here and making proposals if, despite the fact that it comes, the government does not complete them. But then it's also true that we have a government that is very weak, a government that has already said to the beginning of the year that President Torra was broken and divided and exhausted. Probably, given what has happened, you have been better off in elections and have not experienced this agony that we are living from such a broken and divided government; a government that constantly to the public's opinion translated diverse opinions, many times contradictory, between the two parties that are in government. I think that in these moments of pandemic the people who need them are certain, it's security; people, families and also businesses, who are playing their resources every day in a crisis that they often don't understand their abst, taking into account the decisions made by the government. Many times they tell us that they do not understand or see the clear justification for the measures you have taken. Obviously, they do not share the help you offer, because they are insufficient, scarce, unsatisfactory. And, therefore, we believe that the way they are facing this crisis is probably not the right way to go. And that's what this CUP motion says in different points. We have already told you many times: you need to dialogue more to agree with the economic sectors. You can't just inform, talk and agree, don't inform. This is one of the complaints that social and economic agents have with you. When taking sanitary measures it would be good to justify them, to argue them well, but above all to adopt complementary compensatory measures. If we tank the trade or if we tank the restoration, we have to approve complementary aid to compensate for this situation. I'm having a really bad time, the trade sector, the catering sector. This morning he was talking to a trader and really, so the situation is very dramatic; among other things, because they don't understand some decisions when they look at other autonomous communities, for example. And I think it would be good if we could explain it better. If it's a complaint, it must be something. What I'm saying is they have to listen more – they have to listen more – and be a little more empathetic with a difficult situation. Businesses are losing a lot of resources and I think there would be some solidarity from Parliament and, obviously, from this government. Among other things, because they have rejected about 3,200_million euros, they will end up this month 3,200_million euros from the Government of the State of the Covid Fund; they are resources that we have not yet seen justified, we do not know what they are dedicated to, and they see how the trackers go, how the primary attention went, etc., at a cost to see where these 3,200_millions are and we would like to be explained to us, but as the least transparent government of history does not know us. And there will be elections in four days and with a dissolution of Parliament on 21st December, so unfortunately, we will not be aware of it. And then this young man, too, who deals with this, speaks of the assumption and of this ability to have enlarged it, to have modified it, to have eliminated superfluous measures, which we have said many times, to have analyzed a little more at the same time some bodies, such as the CTTI, which we believe, therefore, would require some engineering, but, well, all this has not been done because the government does not want to. And then they get into a subject that's the one in the sub. To me, one of the things I'm surprised about is not that the CUP is present with this, I think it's coherent – and I said it before to Congresswoman Sánchez – the CUP has always made this proposal; therefore, it's logical. What I don't understand is a Ciutadans tree; I don't understand a Ciutadans tree in which he wants to bring down the subs to the government and to the top. And I'm saying it because where they rule, like Madrid or Andalusia, you haven't done it; you've frozen the subs. Why haven't they dropped them by 14_per_cent? It's the same thing you have to say all the time. And what we believe is that politics must be rewarded, we must dignify politics. Anyway, let's think about the subs. But it did cost a lot that copper policies, and so the working class and the working people could devote themselves to politics and not just the rich defending the interests of the rich and, therefore, not the vulnerable. I think this is a serious debate, it can't be demagogic. And what you do... and, well, and the PP, if at last... or if he seems to vote for it favorably, it's demagogic. You don't lower your self where you rule, but where you don't rule and it looks like you don't have the chance to do it, there, come, we'll lower below. This is called demagogicism and populism. And it would be nice if we were a little more honest with the people, and now they're running a few elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.84.0	Yes, thank you, President. As a matter of fact, Mrs Sànchez said that this is a proposal for a minimum. I would say – don't get angry –... even say ‘reformist', wouldn't I? And, therefore, I think it is reasonable, so I can count on the support of many groups in the chamber. I'm starting with the theme of the sous, which seems to me to be an exciting debate. Also because sometimes I have the feeling that we reproduce the debates – I don't know, I'm surprised –, I mean, we have the debates of..., as if what we cover the Members and Members was just to arrive at the end of the month. I am saying this because I also believe that it is a win, in this case, for the popular classes and for the left, that the underlies of the deputies and deputies and the public representatives are reasonable, but, I mean, that we are all aware that what they are covering or what we are covering the deputies and deputies – we are also limited – long-time woman, huh? , to live and, in any case, even to develop the parliamentary pocket. Say we don't arrive just or no arrive just at the end of me. I also think there's a certain hypocrisy with the exams. I also say that, first of all, for the debate. Oh, come on, when these debates took place, for example, at the table, didn't they? ... for example, to return the mobility diets, which, as I said, form part of the self in the fund and where we share the demand also made, in this case, by the group proposing that this should form part of the self and, therefore, should be taxed in a real way for its totality. Well, there are groups that will vote for this or even what they have done... that are against it. Or, you, Ciutadans, for example, to the Bureau of Parliament are against returning the mobility diets. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. They are against making the mobility diets of the months, for example, October or November. We'll do it. For example, from Catalonia to Comú We can do this on a voluntary basis. You'll see if they do. For example, they didn't do it in April. We did it on a voluntary basis. But there is one other thing, of these things that you never agree with anyone, but sometimes you do agree with someone. For example... in the end, it didn't prosper because it would be a moroctuated scandal, which says my avia, but you have agreed to a jump of Members of Parliament with Junts for Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. They make a google, which always comes out, huh? , that always..., and pops into the clarinet headlines– clarinet. So, well, we would vote in coherence with what we already voted on at the time. It's that Parliament's presupposition fell because there was this push from under the deputies and deputies, wasn't there? I also think that in the end... this coincides with the government, that this is one of the problems. I remember a time when the world seemed to end in this Parliament when a vote was lost. I mean, it seemed like you were... no? I remember, at last, that if the government of the left wing then could lose a vote it seemed like the world was over. Miri, exciting things are happening here right now. It is not only that the government does not stop losing votes in each plenary, but also that they vote more separately. But it's that, besides, it's that they don't even care what Parliament votes on. And I think that at the end of it, too – I am talking about Ciutadans – you end up voting for this question because you know that, well, as the government will do what it wants, nor will we end up entering the limit of the subs. And so... either we have already assumed or have already assumed, both part of the opposition as well as all, in this case, the parties that form part of the majority of government, that the decision of the Parliament of Catalonia, therefore, does not matter. I don't think it's too reasonable, either, to say the least, huh? Or, I suppose, it forms part of this stage of Catalan politics that I think we should leave behind. And finally I went to a substantial part of the motion – and there's not the vice president and, in this case, chair in office but he has the responsibility for Economy, but there's the government spokesman and I'm sure he'll translate it – which is: we don't understand – and we have said it repeatedly – what the government of the Generality is doing. So, it doesn't seem reasonable to us and it's not reasonable that the year 2020 is aiming to achieve the same deficit target as the year 2019 at the end of the year. That is to say, because the Generalitat wants to make a deficit of 0.6 or 0.7, which is the same one that did 2019. You're inexplicable. So, I only attribute it to three possibilities: u, they're so messed up that they don't agree for what measures you can take; two, or it's so disaster that they don't have the capacity to mobilize resources, or three – which would still be worse – that they have a vice president of the economy who's hooked on austerity policies and the control of the deficit. Because, if not, it's inexplicable. I mean, why don't we make a 1_per_cent deficit? We will have 600 or 800 million euros more. If that's what we told them by active and passive. Or, it has been approved that the expenditure rule and, in this case, the deficit limitation does not work. We'll finance the deficit. We have passed 3,200_million euros of the Covid fund. So it's inexplicable what they're doing with help. It's inexplicable, if it's not just his electoral camp battle, which I think is what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.86.0	Thank you, President. Last April, the Generality's presuppositions for 2020 were approved, and all the groups agreed that there were some assumptions that were out of date, because we were in the middle of the pandemic and we were all clear that those presuppositions were to be reformed. I myself pointed out three important lines of action: a first, more social policy; a second, more impetus to economic activity to recover what may be lost during confinement; and a third, less process, but if you want to also there can be no less superfluous and negligible expenditure, which is what the CUP motion tells us. And it is certainly a CUP motion that will welcome the favourable vote of our parliamentary group. I don't know if it's due to the proximity of the nothing confined experiment or that, with the reviews and transactions, the original CUP motion doesn't have anything to do with it. Forgive me, yes, there is something left that we would vote against, certainly, as is the case with universal income, that you say that what you intend to do is to redistribute the wealth, when in reality universal income is to reduce the incentive to create wealth and, therefore, what you end up doing is to distribute the poor. Therefore, we will vote against it. And I am not eluding the question of the Socialist Group's deputy in relation to the subs of the high offices and councillors, etc., am I not? What I'm surprised at is the turn you've made from federalism to modernism. We have not had enough to violate the fiscal autonomy of the communities, they also intend to increase taxes and taxation in Madrid, which now also want to regulate under the rest of the communities. But, still, think another thing: the son of a councillor to the Community of Madrid is one hundred and a thousand euros; the son of a councillor to Catalonia is 120,000 euros. Therefore, a reduction of the 14_per_cent would still leave the underlies of the advisers of the Generalitat de Catalunya per month from the Madrid ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the new word the deputy Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.88.0	Hello again. Well, I don't know if it's the hope at all, but I'm sure I'll find them missing. I think there has been an interesting debate, the debate and the different views that have been put on the table on the question of the subs. Mr. Orobig, yes... there's been talk of populism. Miri, if populism is to say that a deputy covers, at least, every month – at least – a few five thousand euros..., man, so yes, they are populists; a few five thousand, 4,900 and escai, if they are not committee presidents... Well, it is variable. I used to teach them my name before. I think that we agree on a question and that it will be approved by a majority, that it is necessary to regulate the question of displacements and diets: a covert, an element that does not pay more. This month I have collected 1,974_euros – which, in my memory, I did not stay because at the CUP we have sub-limitation – in the concept of displacements, and I have spent approximately five hundred_euros moving from Figueres to Barcelona on the days I have come, because I have teleballed many days. In this sense, you often have – and will let me tell you – a classist view, because when it comes to voting that subcontracted workers for the Generality, for example, to offer services to subcontracted companies, there are a minimum of 1,200_euros voted against. And when it comes to talking and debating about this distance, this exclusion between our political class sub-groups – and those of the people for whom we also legislate – the people and the workers – you deny it. It's not about dignifying. We're under dignity. There's a very wide margin to talk about worthy underworld. We think it's a bust that we're charging for right now. Also [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish – we are satisfied with the reviews that we have come to, especially those that pose on the table that the government will put up with the lottery in the distribution of direct help. We stop the lottery: the lottery of the autonomes, the lottery of the cultural workers and the lottery that comes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.89.0	You're out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.90.0	I mean, it can't be that the workers... the first one up there, the first one they charge. It's the one who needs the most, the one who pays for what he needs. It's not about giving everyone the same, it's about donating to what each person needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into government policy in relation to the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[302-00268/12]] The debate is over, let's move on to the next point, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the government's policy with regard to the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic; presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word the deputy José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.92.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies... Mr. Vice President is not here, but he has excused your assistance. Look, it's been more than eight months since this cruel pandemic changed our lives and plunged us into a health crisis... welcome, Mr. Vice President, I had already apologized for your presence. And this crisis, he said, changed our lives and plunged us into a health, economic and social crisis. And, look, that the first months of this government were a chaos could be understood, given an unprecedented situation on which we had no forecast whatsoever. But after nine months that excuse is no longer valid, and at the moment what has come out is the raw reality: the true face of a government that has governed us over the last decade. And we already see, with meridian clarity, the incompetence of a government, in this case overflowing, without tail winds that can mask the disaster of its management. That is why it is good to analyze in the hands of who we are, so that citizens can reflect on who is trained and who is not in these times of deep crisis. Look, this is a government that from the beginning announced that it was not here to manage an autonomous community, where the important thing is not to form a team that manages well and contributes with its policies to the progress and well-being of citizens. What this Government values is the ability of its members to break solidarity among fellow citizens, and for this they have to be the most radical, of course, by sowing discord, division and sides. You have a model with a whole customer network, which, instead of providing solutions to the real problems of Catalans, is only able to manage our democratic institutions and have not been able to be constructive at any time. And that bad policy is to harm Catalans and the economy, as shown by the expulsion of more than five thousand companies and the expulsion of investments, which made us lose, for example, the European Medicines Agency. Imagine how well we would have come in those moments of health crisis that had its headquarters in Barcelona. There, to his incompetence, is added the time that this Government carries out in office. He's been in office long before the pandemic. He has been in an eternal electoral campaign since January, when Mr. Torra announced that with the approval of the budgets – clearly useless budgets before the pandemic – he would call elections. And while families, self-employed people and SMEs are desperate, this Government has opened an internal battle of power and are unable to accompany citizens and economic sectors in the face of the hardest situation we can recall. Because with the constant complaint and the eternal list of comparative grievances, families do not arrive at the end of the month and jobs are not saved. Support for families, self-employed people and small businesses is demonstrated by the well-management of this prosperous autonomous community, which is plagued by its leaders. Support is demonstrated by freeing resources from everything that is not a priority to accompany Catalans when imposing restrictive measures on them. And it is not worth the proposal of a NASA, it is not worth the usual trapicheos and waste for the benefit of the friends. It is demonstrated with leadership and good coordination among councils, rather than each of them making war on their own. And it's not worth one counselor saying one thing, and the other saying the opposite, because that improvisation, that uncertainty, and that chaos harm Catalans. And it's not worth the leaks, because they generate anxiety in a citizen who has already endured enough blows. Because, based on them, Catalans make decisions, cancel reservations or contracts, which, once cancelled, are almost impossible to recover. The children's leisure sector, with whose situation we sympathize, can be given a good account of this. Support for Catalan families is also demonstrated by good coordination between administrations, coming with useful proposals, coming with the will to collaborate in all the forums where the interests of Catalonia are discussed. It is demonstrated in the light of the sectors concerned, economic and social actors. It is demonstrated in the light of this Parliament. It is demonstrated by improving tracking, mass testing and strengthening health. Look, the proposals of this motion and of all that we have made over these years are the ones that could value a government that managed Catalonia well, but not this one. It would be proposals that a government would be willing to set in motion so as not to leave the Catalans behind; a government that complied with its word, and if it sets in motion a two-million-euro aid for the self-employed affected by the restrictions, that aid must reach the current account of all of them, not just of the first ten thousand; a government that designs an immediate aid system for each restrictive measure it takes, which is what we also raise in this motion; a government that plans and is transparent and that does not limit itself to demanding responsibility from the citizen, because they are complying with their share. Look, thousands of Catalans have been ruined by their incompetent management of the crisis. And, a few weeks after the end of the legislature, ask yourself if it is not time for you to take the path that this opposition shows you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.93.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the MP Alicia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.94.0	Thank you, President. Again, good morning, deputies and deputies, vice president. That's exactly what we said in the past, isn't it? We're already carrying a few motions in this area and I think that the government might have to do..., or at least listen to some opposition groups, because, if we're all here to say the same thing, that surely what the government is doing is insufficient and probably not doing it with enough dialogue or agreement, so it would have to have some of these proposals; among other things, because they're coming up and then they're not complete. I am saying this because I believe that two or three weeks ago the Socialist Group's motion was approved mostly throughout the chamber and, well, they do not put these approved proposals on the table either. In any case, the motion of Ciutadans, which we will almost fully gather, I think it repeats a little, therefore, what the CUP already said with other words. But it is true: it is obvious that we are in a health crisis, that the governments have found it and have had to face it, therefore, in the best way possible and with the resources they had, but it is also true that this crisis is not being faced, that it is also economic and social, in the same way, nor are the governments facing it with the same measures. And this is the case of the European Union and it is the case, therefore, of the Spanish State, which has set aside the ERTO or the vital minimum ingredient or a base of 16,000_million euros for the autonomous communities, where Catalonia will return at the end of the year 3.200_million euros. That was before Congressman Cid, wasn't it? : we haven't just heard, so, with 3,200_million euros plus a deficit that could be realized..., it seems to me that, besides, the vice president asked the government of the state that it was '1_per_cent, right? Well, it's a reference fee. You know that you could do more, that the government will cover this debt. And, therefore, what we don't understand is that we will do the same deficit this year 2020 as we did the year 2019. It doesn't look like a reasonable mass. But what we haven't just heard is why we don't know who the costs of this €3,200_million are, what they've devoted themselves to, why we're seeing gaps and we're seeing deficiencies: in the first place, in the trackers, in the aid to the affected sectors... And I'm saying that because, listen, they're restaurants, they're bars, they're firaries, they're marching, they're night, they're reading, they're cultural and sports entities; that's to say, they're a lot of sectors affected. And I said before: one of the problems of the sectors is that, since there has been no dialogue, there has only been information, they do not understand any measures, right? Today– and I said earlier, since the vice president has taken advantage of it–, a trader who has some shops– some in town centres, but others in shopping centers– I said: « I don't understand why shopping centers are closed and large surfaces are opened in a single building of eight plants. There are things... I mean, they don't get along. They don't understand why malls don't, but big stores do. And some really expensive health measures – cost – to hear when one doesn't have all the data. And that means a lot of important losses to many of our businesses and we'll see how we can, then, get back to these deals, because if we don't inject liquidity, then in all these economic sectors they'll explain to me how they can open the blind again – never better said, won't they? Therefore, here we would need a more important government effort. We have already told you a few days ago: two tenths more of GDP is almost 500_million euros; injected into the economic sectors, therefore, would be a very important aid. And, in change, you go to pocket. Now 8_millions, now 10_millions. Plus, with a few calls, as Congresswoman Sànchez said before, the lottery – the first one I took up –, without really appreciating who is the most patenting, who is the most vulnerable and who needs this more help. Let's see when they get here, huh? Now we've made a record... it looks like you're lying that you don't have a record either. Now that we're debating the law of economic facilitation... so we do have to do some work to facilitate economic activity, right? So far we don't have a register. In short, we believe the situation is difficult, it is true. We try to support the health measures that have been taken. Now it seems that we will not pass the tram – now they will inform the media – and that we will continue on the tram 1. This means that it is even harder for these economic sectors to enter a significant part of their billing at this time of Nadal. And, therefore, I would also like here today to listen to who comes out of the government saying: "More help for these sectors than will suffer so much this month of disembarkation. Therefore, I think the government should have more dialogue, more agreement and a little more courage in managing its resources, and probably explain some of the measures it takes. We've already said, we know the vice president doesn't agree, but we think they can make an effort to spend a little more, even though that means more deficit and more debt. But the moment demands it. And before Deputy Cid said: "The vice president seems to be an austere of the Catalan and Spanish right. So the truth is, when you see what's going on, you think you do. We don't know if it's because the government is broken, divided or exhausted, but the case is that they're not giving the answer that comes at the time of the pandemic we're living with.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Yolanda López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.96.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Vice President... First and foremost and on behalf of my parliamentary group, Catalonia in Comú Puermes, I want to express... and in my own, of course, I want to express my full support for those people who are suffering economic damage as a result of the Covid-19. The Government of the Generalitat made a continuous demand to have all the powers to fight the Covid-19, supposedly because it would fight more effectively against the virus. On the other hand, the data suggest that there is no evidence of improvement compared to spring data. A government that seems to be more eager to take advantage of the elections on 14 February than the fight against the Covid-19, or in the design of specific plans that will help the different economic sectors that are suffering greatly from the situation. A few weeks ago we lived one of the great fiascos of the Department of Labour, from where politics was applied in the face of the games of hunger, in relation to the shameful and miserable help to the self-employed; aid from which only ten_ thousand self-employed in Catalonia have benefited, those who first arrived and managed to request it, when we are talking about that in Catalonia there are about 543,000 self-employed and self-employed. It's obvious that Treball's advisor hasn't been up to his mark. But this does not come from now, as the CUP seems to think; this comes from a long time before, and they had the opportunity to repudiate the management of the counselor in the residences and it was you who saved him. The episode of the autonomists highlighted once again the great disputes that exist between the partners of this unstable government to see who was to blame, whether the Department of Digital Politics or the Department of Treball. And finally, as the Government has accustomed us, we have seen that in the past plenary the Vice-President, Mr Pere Aragonès, came to blame the Government of the State. This is what they usually do whenever they want to hide their inability and irresponsibility. They have resources. They lack the will or the ability to spend them and do the right thing, with an economic plan that we are still waiting for today. In recent months, the Government has not implemented any of the economic measures it was demanding from the Government of the State to help the most affected sectors, with aid to self-employed or other groups, despite having the capacity to mobilize resources, as there is no real deficit limit today. And it is incomprehensible that the Generalitat wants to make a deficit of 0.6_per_cent, which is the same as 2019. Have you really learned that we have a health and economic crisis? In addition, they have received 3,325_million_de_euros from the Covid fund, which will transfer the Spanish Government to a deep loss and without macroeconomic conditions, in addition to the 420_millions for expanding the flexibility of the deficit target, money that is not being mobilized for the fight against the Covid and money that is not being invested to defend the different economic sectors of Catalonia. In addition to all this, we have a government that has been unable to work out cross-cutting agreements with the social partners to tackle this health and economic crisis. The government is not listening to the social actors, they are not working hand in hand with the affected groups. We will vote in favour of all the points of this motion, thanking Citizens for having accepted our amendments, because we believe that they are fundamental aspects in order to be able to combat the virus decisively and effectively. Finally, let us again tell the Government to stop improvising, to spend, to leave the calculator and to help people; to put in sufficient resources for the self-employed, to put in sufficient resources for the cultural sector, sufficient resources for the sport sector, the necessary aid for the trade fairs, for the restoration sector. They help people, plan smartly, and before making decisions like closing bars or gyms or theaters, start with the essentials; start with an effective prevention policy, through the expansion and reinforcement of screening and primary care as a fundamental measure to prevent the growth of contagion. Because with these measures they will not only be saving lives, but they will also be saving the economic engine of Catalonia. Listen, listen to the sectors and social actors and break the bubble from which they are ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.98.0	Thank you, President. To intervene from the escó. They'll allow me to have a reminder of historical memory this week: we started with the centenary of Francesc Layret's assassination, a person who has a law in this Parliament – from the thirties, but from this Parliament – and we'll end tomorrow, 4 December, with the reminder of García Caparrós, both Spanish State crimes on which he hasn't yet asked for forgiveness. And we, moreover, carry a hug to our Andalusian Germans, and in a very special way to the left-wing sovereignists, who tomorrow, under the cry of "Long free Andalusia, will go out as always in the street; not on the 28th of February, but on the 4th of September. About the content of the Ciutadans motion. We will vote practically in favour of all points. Yes, we want to make reference to the fact that there are a few points which we will not vote for, which is what makes reference to economic recovery, because it seems insufficient to us, not because we are against it, for this reason we will abstain; the one which calls for increased economic coordination with the State, because it does not say in what terms and we are not in favour of this coordination; the one which makes reference to Covid radar, because it is an application that can have an end and all a journey of not controlling our data. And then we also want to refer to the issue that we have presented in relation to this motion and that has not been accepted. We see that the Councillor's resignation is called for; we think that technically it will not be possible. But we are asking two questions in the question which has not been incorporated: cease, not, but resigned, which is indeed possible. Dismissed not only from El Homrani, the Honourable Counselor, but from the Honourable Counselor Alba Vergés. And for what he does to Councilman El Homrani, we link him to the bad management of guaranteed citizenship income, to the private management of public services, to the performance of the autonomes– nefarious–, and we also want to explain, obviously, that we link him to the private model of management of the residents of large people, and it is certainly different from the conception of the group proposing this young man in that they understand that what determines is that the Councilman is responsible for managing it. Look, we don't share that, and we think that even this can take on a certain responsibility, that's what those businesses and those they run. And, therefore, we, not only a cessation that is not technically possible, but only two resignations, and linking it, yes, with a model theme, which is what needs to be changed because we can never find ourselves with this situation more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, I now send a return to Mr Jordi Albert. [[Seeing the background and pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.100.0	Well, thank you, President. We thought Mr. Manuel Reyes of the PP was here before. In any case, Members, Members, Vice-Presidents, Workers and Workers of Parliament, we are in front of a motion from Ciutadans who, at the end of the day and in the end, continue to set up the same one which has been set up on repeated occasions in this Parliament and which continues to feed this mantra that it seems that the Government has not yet flowed a single euro, according to its terms. And that's not it. In fact, there is a plan of economic recovery and social protection where there are 31.765 million euros available, of which 2,620 are available this 2020 – 2,620_million euros. Among other things, it has expanded and, therefore, generated more respect for health parties with €51.8_million, generated more respect for social service parties with €48.5_million, and this generated more respect for housing parties with €14.5_million. In addition, what they have explained on various occasions during the interventions that preceded me..., some groups have referred to this assumed non-deficit limitation. Well, at a meeting of the October Finance Policy Council, it ensured that 0.2_percent of GDP could be assumed as a deficit, and that would be covered by the state, but all that goes beyond that will be charged in a year's time. And we'll see if he's gonna be charged in a year. Therefore, this supposed limitation is non-existent. That's 420,08_million euros. Therefore, all this money is at your disposal. But more questions, and important and salient questions: the theme of autonomies. We cannot agree with the proposal to repeat the call, because, in fact, since 30 November this month, from this very month, the register of autonomes has been opened for the purpose of changing the model of application and of setting aside these aids and, therefore, until 7 December at three o'clock in the afternoon all the autonomes and autonomes of this country that complete the requests can register in this register. From here, from the point of view of the logical negotiation and, therefore, of social concertation with the autonomes and autonomes in the framework of the Catalan Autonomous Work Council, it will be decided which are the aids to be incorporated and which must be in the line of giving full support to the autonomes. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, The Catalunya tea? No, not at all. Catalonia does not have the competence of the autonomes. What is the Government of Madrid doing respecting self-government? What are you doing? They come here a lot to complain about, but then, when they take responsibility, they don't take responsibility. What if we talk about ERTOs? Because the ERTOS thing is a real shame! The ERTOs are a real shame! Here they come asking for resignations when there are thousands of Catalan families who have not been covered for months, when there has been a breakdown in social security, where there have been workers who have retired in the last few months who have not been able to process their retirement and who have not been paid. And you come here to ask for responsibilities? Assume those who are to assume in the Government of the State. And lastly, respect the different proposals in points 10, 11 and 12. And, forgive me, I also want to refer to 9. Because to Congressman Cano, who we used to hear often enough and have a very fluid and political dialogue – something we have not been able to do on this young man – I have to say that point 9 is not understood. At point 9 you ask for a study on the impact of your statements and actions. « Yours, from whom? – From whom? Government, Parliament, Members, a parliamentary group? « Yours, from whom? Rigor. But besides that, rigor also: point 12. Home, please! - Please! A government in function; a government in function for a democracy of the right that has, within its legislation, the possibility of, for a banner – for a banner – dismissing a president of the Generality. That's a shame! And, therefore, it is very clear that this dismissal in a functioning government is not feasible, it is impossible. Therefore, rigor – rigor. No one can be removed, no one can be named. And, moreover, it would be of high social irresponsibility that the competences of a councillor or a councillor dismissed in a government in function of a date of expiration, as you know, have them assume another councillor or another councillor of that same or another sphere and, therefore, have a double responsibility. But, please, what's the play? Honestly, your young man doesn't understand anything. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.102.0	Thank you. Yes; well, good afternoon, too, or good morning, president, deputies, deputies, vice president. Indeed, this reason that you pose and that you have not managed to negotiate papers with groups that want to raise papers, so I think it also has a certain electoral character, because they say the same mantras that you always do, and I don't know if you would have to pay copyright to the PSC, because it's very similar to what the PSC presented to the last plenary. That said, when you make reference to the lack of transparency..., man, every month from the council, from the Vice-President, a report is issued and published which is said to be Execution Analysis of the Public Sector Subsume Administered, and in addition to the Execution Data of the Substitution. So, I think that... plus, it's mandatory for the law of transparency. Don't say there's no transparency, because more of this report is extensive and it's public opinion. You have three goals for this young man. Ask the affected sector for more help. This deputy and this parliamentary group, and I think the whole government, we can never consider that there are enough donated help; u. Back: When you say that the stuttering aids have ended up without listening I think it's also false. The first months or the first impact of the pandemic may be, but then the sectors are heard and who are the conditions for aid; false. When you talk about the new system of autonomies, so, effectively, the plantation has changed. In fact, there are some autonomous restaurants that have already received this week; they sent messages and have already received first aid. Three: when you refer to the government's lack of planning; false. In fact, it's so false that all the list of your help you ask for – the 800_million euros are part of it – are the very help of the government's reactivation plan. Therefore, as they may say, there is no planning if what they are asking is to continue implementing the measures of the government's reactivation plan, which are more than €800_million. I don't understand. Three, when they say he's not spending himself. So it's more than 1,500_million euros that the Government of the Generality – to make round numbers, huh? , Vice President – is already running. So it doesn't fit either. And, especially, he has made me illusory – I don't know if it's a gift of my later interventions here in Parliament – when they refer to strengthening the optical fiber, the optical fiber network of Catalonia. Dear, but if you haven't voted anything during these three years of the whole digital theme! « The digital republic, « the digital coup, « the chiringuitos..., what we have been feeling the most. And now it turns out that you want to strengthen the public fiber network of Catalonia? But if you, in addition, the assumptions voted against them, and, in addition, they laid out plans to eliminate all the assumptions about digital policies! And now they're saying to reinforce Catalonia's public fiber web, optical fiber; it's amazing. I'm glad, but if there wasn't a government that has cregued in these social policies, it wouldn't be strengthened, because they're not as serious as possible, let's just say it, right? But the reality is that you in these..., we've raised these issues that you didn't get so alone or negotiate. I..., the first time I've been with a young man in the Parliament, that neither the opposition group that raised the young man, therefore, nor went to negotiate. And we're still going to approve it three points because... the concert, the dialog, that's all we're in favor of, isn't it? When they talk about help to the locals... it's that, of course, you help them to ask for help from the state. You're not independent; I do. But I share the need for help. But you ask for help from the state, and the autonomous government does not have the capacity to give the help you ask for. And, therefore, we ask for independence and defense, precisely because we want to give these aids and we can facilitate them. And, finally, there is also a measure..., a statement that we had raised with Deputy Jordi Albert, which we ask that the Spanish Government..., so we demand a direct aid package – a direct aid package – to the citizen. The truth is, if you walk, don't you? For the experience of different countries, they have approved direct aids, and Spain has not. And we introduced her together. But I also think we need to be demanding, that you ask for help from the state and we are an autonomous community. And, according to them, I think that more than demanding them, these direct aids, with a young man, I think that the best possibility and the greatest responsibility was to demand them in the assumptions that would be approved in Madrid. That is where there is direct concern to demand these aid which is claimed by many sectors of Catalan society, and I think that it is more important to be rigorous, demanding, because the sectors are actually asking for it. And, finally, a mention of the issue of firaries. We are voting for a motion tabled by the People's Party to respect the need for measures in the firaria sector, to establish a protocol so that they can resume their activities absolutely; measures of this return from the firaria and also help lines. It's on the inside. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – the difficulty they have had, and therefore, we have no problem in repeating the motion that we approved and approve this motion by the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Manuel Reyes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.104.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, today we are dealing with the umpteenth motion which highlights the government's inaction at this very complicated and difficult time in the pandemic that we are experiencing. We are facing a health crisis that has also led to an economic crisis, a social crisis that has worsened in this second wave. The Government had had to take measures, health measures, which had led to forced unemployment in certain productive sectors, but those measures that the Government had taken had not been consensual with those different sectors that had been affected. On the contrary: it has criminalized different sectors, such as restaurants and bars, as well as nightlife, such as sports, gyms, cultural activities, sports, self-employed people, trade fairs... In short, many very important sectors, essential in our economy. They are forced to close, but this closure is not accompanied by the necessary measures to save these companies, to save thousands and thousands of jobs. On the contrary: we condemn these workers to the ERTEs and to the lists of unemployment. And when you activate and put on the table a measure, the server collapses; incredible. The help offered by the Government of the Government of Catalonia is hanging and leaving thousands out, hundreds of autonomous from our autonomous community, is it not? We in the People's Party therefore ask the Government for a rescue plan; a rescue plan for businesses, self-employed people and SMEs; a plan to help create jobs, to save jobs, to recover those jobs that have been lost; and a tax plan, a tax reduction plan that encourages new business creation and helps alleviate the burden that many families have in our autonomous community. We have also tabled two amendments in relation to a sector that is not usually discussed by any administration, such as the theme of amusement fairs. We call in our amendments for them to be considered cultural activity, because it is very often linked to the major festivals, to the neighbourhood festivals of our towns and cities, and also for the necessary protocols to be established so that they can regain their economic activity. It is a sector, as everyone knows, that has been standing for almost eight or nine months and is important. Just as we talk about others – we have mentioned them: bars, restaurants, nightlife, tourism –, let's not forget that sector too important, which is that of amusement fairers in our autonomous community. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, to pronounce on the papers, it has a late turn to the deputy Mr José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.106.0	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank all the groups for the interest they have shown in this motion and for having tabled their amendments. Some of us have been able to accept them, some of us have negotiated them and some of us have not been able to include them. I am grateful for Mr Jordi Albert's willingness to discuss this motion, but we cannot accept these amendments because we understand that what they do is decafeinate the meaning and content of this proposal. And at this point in the film, given the inability to manage this government, it makes no sense to walk with warm cloths. In fact, the two interventions by the groups supporting the Government make it clear why these amendments cannot be accepted. Mr Albert has told us that he does not understand anything about this motion, a motion to support the self-employed, the trade fairs, the SMEs, the families, and Mrs Gemma Geis has told us that she will not vote anything about this motion, when the rest of the parliamentary groups will obviously support the points of the motion, because they are useful policies precisely to help all those families, all those self-employed and all those SMEs who are going through so badly, with which you do not dialogue. Because we talk to them and they're the ones who told us, we don't make it up to us. And from here we have also accepted a proposal to support the trade fair sector, which is a sector that is going through a lot, has not been able to restart the activity and, therefore, has our full support from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. And we also wanted to prepare a proposal to declare sport as an essential service. It is clear that sport is health, but this Government does not seem to share this statement. There are thousands of users of gyms who feel helpless and the sector is sunk under restrictions. And all our support also to all those families who see their sons and daughters as being unable to practice sport with relative normality, endangering all sports clubs, which carry out essential work throughout the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mrs. Geis, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.108.0	For contradictions. That I said here in the Faristol that there will be a few points to vote on, relating to the dialog. It is therefore in contrast to what the honourable Member has just said. It's just that maybe I expressed myself badly or didn't listen well, but I said it explicitly from the Faristol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.109.0	All right, thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the right to a second opportunity]] [[302-00269/12]] After the debate, let's move on to the next point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the right to a second opportunity; presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr Jordi Orobig has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.110.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, this subsequent questioner, I remember, had to object, therefore, to talk about the situation of many of the people and families in our country, who were already coming from a very compromised economic situation after the crisis that began in 2008, and at a stage that seemed to be recovery, they have now found themselves with this pandemic, which obviously has had an important impact on the situation, in the economic context not only of the entrepreneurs and the autonomies, but also of the families, eh? I insist: they have seen the power to meet their credit obligations and also basic subsistence. Faced with this situation, therefore, governments can choose different measures. Some may be reactive, it's to say..., and we're talking about these lines of help that precisely what they want is to go through this complex stage of precariousness. And others who are proactive, and in this case... that's the case. I don't think it's the first time since the same Department of Justice has donated this kind of measurement. It was the decree on the logists, in this case all those who had to deal with the leases of business premises, with the will, precisely, to find an out-of-court solution that allows everyone, both the landlords and the tenants, to look forward to the future and find a provisional solution that allows to solve the precariousness of the entrances that suffer from these activities and that, therefore, prevents them from facing their contractual obligations, and that all this does not result in a judicial dispute, which also entailed the congestion of the judicial bodies. And also with other measures, such as the imposition of the expected mediation process in the area of family conflicts; also, in this case, in this connection, to lighten the congestion rate in the courts, the litigation rate. And we find ourselves with a proposal for a new measure. In this case, from our parliamentary group we understand that it is necessary to implement an alternative way for those people who are in a situation..., we are talking about both physical and autonomous people, as well as legal persons, but basically addressed to physical people, who are the ones who have less economic resources and probably advice in order to embrace the possibilities that will arbitrate our legal system. So push an office, that precisely what they claim is that all these people, they end up with a situation of insolvency and morositude in the compliment of their obligations..., also with the public, in which we make a special emphasis as the current legislation does not provide for it. So that we have the ability, from the Administration..., or the Administration, in this case the Government, the necessary tools – in this case it is the creation of an office that should be on the way before April 1, 2021 – precisely to make a process of advice and follow-up to all these people because they know the law relating to the respect and that I allow them, by means of an important clearance of those debts that they have contracted, avoid the fact that it was traditional in strict application of our legal framework, that it is the civil death of those people who, by circumstances alien to their will, have become in a situation of insolvency, and that, therefore, may have the civil death of those people who, by means of alien circumstances to their own will, are able to express their own initiative. This is precisely the object of this office. In the same way, to the young man what we foresee is that he is making a public campaign of dissemination of respect, so that all the citizens of our country know that these legislative instruments exist at his service. And a third departure from this motion is to make a demand, in this case to the institutions of the State, that they are those who have the possibility, modifying, in this case, standards, and more concretely the Competition Law, because it can also be minor and there can be a release of those public beliefs that have entailed..., that are also part of the debt of these people who are unable to face their credit situation with solvency. Not all, we understand, because logically those tax penalties that are due for a poor practice of the taxpayer, logically they will not be acquired in a procedure of this type, but if we are talking about appeals of interest and other kinds of tax debts, that, logically, as long as we do not have the same treatment as private claims, we would not be able to resolve this situation of morosity or achieve the objective of the law, which should be the total reintegration into the social, labor and, also, in the family fullness of all these people and collectius. That is why, therefore, we offer the chamber the task of making this office a reality that allows you to give this answer to a situation that the citizenry, logically, thinks would look good.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.111.0	Thank you very much. Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Manuel Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.112.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, from Ciutadans we will always be at the side of the people who need it most, alongside the families, the workers, the self-employed, the people and small businesses who have fallen and who have been indebted, especially in this time of Covid, and especially in the post-Covid era, in the situation of economic crisis, recession and economic and social crisis that we will have at the door. We believe that it is important that public administrations be particularly agile and that the legal mechanisms allow those people who want to start over, start over, get up again, the administrations are always on the side of these people, small businesses, businesses, people in general, or simply want to build a new future from the bottom up and without debts; and for that we need this second chance law, so that they can start over, as I said, from scratch. A priori, Mr de Esquerra could be told that the motion, at least the initial text, is quite reasonable, we could say, the statement. However, in the agreements I believe that, as always, they get a little lost, don't they? , in particular the agreements............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the first point, you are talking about setting up a second chance advisory office and accompanying people in insolvency. Either it is an absolutely electoral measure, because you know well that setting up an office of these characteristics could imply an unfair competition to the whole collective of lawyers, lawyers, prosecutors, even of competition administrators and economists; or it is that you do not know the reality, because you find..., we find that, obviously, the procedures, if there is no agreement, end up before the courts. If you want to give solutions to people in vulnerable situations, I tell you the solution: you don't need to set up any offices, you need to properly equip the office, as we have asked from this parliamentary group. Make it most attractive for prosecutors and lawyers, for Catalan collegiates in general, and above all also provide the legal service with adequate legal guidance, so that they can deal with these second opportunities. A few months ago, this Parliament amended the Catalonia Mediation Act, and from Citizens we put forward a number of amendments that you rejected, but we believe that, in this regard, too, the systems of extrajudicial resolution of conflicts can and can be very useful, especially at the pre-competition stage, namely the former Article 5a. Nor do we believe that it is very reasonable to duplicate human and material resources when the courts are currently collapsing. And not only do we say it, the commercial courts of Barcelona have said it and so has the Bar Association, specifically a week ago: that we are going to encounter an unprecedented collapse in justice. And yet, here you come to bring us, as always, duplicates, an office or place your own. We believe it is important to help in that pre-competitive phase, perhaps through those mechanisms of arbitration, mediation, conciliation, but we believe that there are things..., they have not found a definitive solution. You also talk about returning commercial matters, second- chance cases, to commercial courts. I wonder: weren't you the ones who complained about the concentration of cases in the provincial courts that knew about ground clauses? I mean, that turned into a bottleneck. I had heard many criticisms from independence that said that this was not a way of working, which, in fact, had to go back to the first instance. And here they put the opposite, they put it the other way around. I think it is important that we have specialized courts, but, as always: you can have specialized courts, but if they are not well endowed they cannot be agile, and if they are not agile they cannot give solutions to citizens. Specifically, with regard to the public campaign that you are proposing, we believe that you can also do so through professional colleges, which for that you are, and I say to you that it can involve unfair competition, as I have said before. With regard to point 3, we are in agreement to push for changes to improve the regulatory framework – in the state, of course. The consolidated text 1/2020, a text that was adopted during the state of alarm, and it was approved by the Socialists and the Lords of Podemos, I think it did not bring any great change, basically fused into a text. We believe that it is important that public credits and the privileges of these public credits be assimilated to the rest of the debts. It does not stand or make sense that a person who has lost everything and has only the possibility of hosting this second chance, on the other hand, has that slab of public administrations. And you also have an important role, as you are members of the Socialist Party. As for the collapse situation, we believe that this is all going through a series of measures, right? The first thing, of course, is to properly equip the courts and tribunals, to digitise – more budget in digitisation – to develop methods of conflict resolution, to avoid this possible unfair competition, to properly equip the office...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.113.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.114.0	...and the legal guidance service. And, of course, they do their job and take the measures they have in their competence. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix her position, she has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.116.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, we have already said many times that the economic and real estate crisis of the year 2018 has plunged many families into a situation of precariousness, lashed by the over-indebtedness and the impossibility of dealing with the payment, in some cases, of benefits as essential as housing. Even though macro numbers show us that families have made a great effort to reunify debts, to liquidate them, in some cases, in their totality, and, ultimately, to lower the level of debt, many people who have been affected by that situation have not yet been able to escape. And today we find ourselves in front of another crisis, provoked by the Covid-19 and the economic consequences that were going on. Fortunately, the answer before this very complex scene is not the same as it was in 2008, neither from Europe nor from the Government of Spain nor from Catalonia. Unprecedented resources have been mobilised – from the Government of Spain, €218,000_million – as never before. The Government of the State has acted as an economic agent acting before the threat posed by the pandemic, protecting families and the productive sector. Beyond the direct aid, in terms of financing, lines of downstream ICO have been created that have assumed 100,000_million, of which 98_per_cent have been destined for peppers and autonomes, and have also enabled ICO to support families by importing 1,200_million euros to cover, among others, loans intended for the payment of housing. Therefore, a determined action by the Government of Spain to leave no one behind. But this does not mean that, as well as the means and the resources mobilized, the problem does not remain. After more than two years of that terrible crisis, when they began to remunerate the activity, the pandemic is now putting families, their autonomies and their families in particular difficulty. Therefore, we need to look for the formulas so that those who can be blocked in the consequences of this situation can get out. The young lady you're presenting us today is on this path, we understand. In Spain, in fact, there is already the nickname "benefits of exoneration of the dissatisfied pass, which allows physical persons who are insolvent and who are debtors of good faith to face up to the payment of their creditors liquidating their assets and to be exempt from obligations that they have not been able to satisfy. But the regulation to get here, to access this possibility, is confusing and does not allow to distinguish different situations of insolvency that in our understanding should have different solutions. Aware of this, the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the Congress presented a non-law proposal, on May 20, in order to promote the reform of the Competition Law, in order to differentiate debtors who hold impregnable assets, and who can therefore reach an out-of-court agreement with their creditors in order to pay for all or part of their debt, and those who do not have assets, and who are reasonably reckoned that they will not be able to hold them, and therefore could be joined to the benefits of judicial exemption without having to go through all the anticipated formalities, which in some cases are genuinely calvary. Therefore, we will gather the motion that they present to us, because we understand that, from the outset, as we have already said, the procedures for being able to access the exemption procedures are not easy or understanding for many people who can be found in this situation, and therefore, creating offices from where can be given attention to people who can be found at this point, advising them and accompanying them in this situation can be positive – and obviously making it diffuse, which is obvious, right? Now, from the positive proposal we have to move to its materialization, and it will take time to see how from this government, or from the new, we can push. You mark a temporary target of April 2021, we see it quite unviable. With regard to the third point, in which it is precisely asked to push ahead with the institutions, so, these legislative amendments, we believe that the Socialist Group's proposal to Congress has gone as far as it is, and therefore also the positive one. And, therefore, we understand that this legislative reform will take place that will allow the debate on the abst and the content of this measure that you propose. And that's why we removed the thought that we had initially presented, I understand that there was something that needed to be killed, but, as we said, it doesn't have to be done here right now, but at the moment that this debate is being held in the Congress of Deputies, it will already be done. We will, therefore, gather to this young man, with the hope that he is complacent and with the conviction that we must find the mechanisms because before the economic crises – the one that we are living and which can affect us – no one is caught there and because everyone really has a second chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.118.0	Thank you very much. MPs and MPs, you'll advise... thank the group for proposing today's motion. Surely, there's a relationship, isn't there? You tell us that if you mount a company or women of high self-government to start a business, you work hard, you work hard, you pay taxes when you play, success is guaranteed, that's the positive way to say that if you fail is surely because you haven't done the right thing. And I think that in the current situation we have to say that this is obviously false, that many autonomes and many peppers work more hours than a clock, and, even so, things haven't worked out for them. And one can say: "Well, now, with the pandemic, there can be excuses. No, the pandemic is not the fault of anyone who has donated himself or anyone who has opened a pipe, but neither was the 2008 crisis. Nor is it a supplier who has left you a puff so that you don't pay, that you make the business sour; nor is it that there are autonomies who suffer an accident of labor and have to be months without working and ending up in ruin; or as neither is it that a businessman has an accident and has an unforeseen cost that he cannot cope with or that obliges him to be indebted and in a situation of economic failure. And these situations are giving in our country; now with more motivation, we have health restrictions that in many sectors prevent the direct functioning of the activity, or indirect because demand has fallen or because there is a latent economic crisis. Now we see it with much more normality, but we also want to claim that these things have been going on all these years and that there have been many good-faith debtors in this country who, despite having been god, fifteen years of work, have found themselves at home and without a house and without a right to pay, or in debt for life and with their embargoes, and who have not given it a second opportunity, who has left it many times without a house, without a job and with a debt for life that has banished them from the possibility of recovering from a failure. And we believe, therefore, that it is essential to consolidate the right to the second opportunity. Not just settle for what we already recognize, but be able to advance right to the second opportunity and make it real. And in this we share the task that remains of the administrations to open offices, to make it public, to advise the citizens. Because when a person is in a process like this, we also have to say that everything is legally made a mountain. No one is legally prepared to assume what a failure of their business means. Many times, more than you read, we also miss the legal advice, the ability of people to have a space that gives them security in which to do it. This space has been replaced by the civic organization many times: the Mortgage Affected Platform, the Llogators Union, which when people were in a failed situation have followed those who have helped to negotiate with banks debt forgiveness, debt regrouping, etc. But public administrations have to do this task. Actually, it's his pocket. And, therefore, we thank this young man. And a little morning, because I think we're in a situation where we've been discussing this for many weeks now: the right to the second opportunity, in this situation, is also a right that we need to build presuppositionally, because the majority of people who are now in a situation of failure, are derived from the health situation that we're living in. And, therefore, not only the criticism that obviously these aids are given because someone can sustain their business and not go bankrupt obviously cannot be done by chance and obviously need to be provided with a presuppositionally adequate form, but we also need to break with austerity. Even from a utilitarian point of view, including letting us know how badly people are going through when they lose their business, we have to say that we will probably pay for today's peas or for today's autonomies on 2021. And that clinging to a tenth of a deficit today is losing recaptancy by 2021. And that, therefore, we must make this effort and we must ensure that public institutions do not, precisely, prevent people from resorting to situations of economic failure in their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Mrs Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.120.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Well, the financing of the economy and the growth of global debt as it came out or as trying to reinvent a system that has long failed also has consequences in people's lives. And, therefore, we find ourselves in permanent insolvency situations of legal persons and physical persons, and all this always has consequences in families and especially in the most humble and working people. In this sense, today, when the Republican Esquerra proposal came into force, it made a search for the Internet and found that on June 16, 2020, of this same year, the Government already announced, by means of a press release, that it would create a follow-up service to the debtors and that, moreover, this follow-up would make it possible for the Government to begin to act before December 31, 2020, which is when the moratorium on the submission of contests expires. The truth is, we're late. It's 3 December, and there's still no such thing as a debtor support service. What we find ourselves in the penultimate plenary of this legislature is a new motion for a resolution, like so many others, which will surely remain in the coven. The situation is complex for thousands of people and it is necessary to transform a system that every day condemns us more to destitution and to these permanent insolvencies, especially young people who no longer find another opportunity. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, but we hope that there will be no other agreements that take this Parliament as a makeup measure and not as a real and effective measure that has consequences on people's lives. I understand that, precisely, the expected report or study of the Generality's service will facilitate judicial processing in the event that a case has not reached an agreement and reaches the court, because it will come with more information for the benefit of both the debtors and their creditors. The participation of the Coll·legi de Notaris, the solicitor's office, the Coll·legi d'Avocats and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.121.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.122.0	... – yes, I'm finished, president – from the chambers, let us hope that it will always be in the interests of the debtors precisely, in these cases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Manuel Reyes has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.124.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, the second chance law was passed at the Congress of Deputies in July 2015 following the recommendations of the European Commission that had made the previous year. It is a law that allows people to be helped, self-employed people who are in a situation of extreme indebtedness and therefore need to be able to have a second chance, not to condemn those who cannot resume their lives, who cannot recommence, who cannot return to work in full condition, right? It is therefore intended to help individuals, and it is also intended, to the extent possible, that debts may be collected by creditors. There is no doubt that both the Competition Law and the Second Chance Law are laws inspired by ethical principles. From the People's Party we are convinced that we must continue to work in this line of being able to help people to reinvent themselves, to be able to have a chance again, to be able to start again. And we believe that this law must be reinstated, that we must try to ensure that that public debt which cannot be repaid at present can also be forgiven in certain cases. This legislative change is therefore important. Also, from the People's Party we ask that..., that is, people who are in unemployment who decide to undertake, during the first two years that have a new project, a new initiative, do not have to pay taxes. And, speaking of taxes, we believe that this tax rebate is important in all parts of Spain: here in Catalonia, also in Madrid and in any other part of our country. And we're surprised how Esquerra Republicana, instead of worrying about taxes, the taxes we pay Catalans, is much more concerned about taxes and taxes paid by Madriders, right? We cannot share that way of working of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, more concerned about what is done outside our community than about what we can do for the Catalans as a whole. Moreover, Esquerra Republicana is a key piece in that government between Sánchez, Iglesias and Rufián, and therefore for two and a half years you have had the opportunity to change the legislation; you have the possibility, in Madrid you are key partners. Therefore, if Mr Rufián asks his partner Churches, we are convinced that, as on other occasions, he will be able to amend the legislation and we will surely be able to find all of us. Therefore, we believe that we must continue to make progress in that line of being able to help those self-employed, those companies, but lowering taxes in Madrid and also in Catalonia. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Elena Fort has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members and Members, all of us, in general, in our pocket of Members and Members we find themes of which we have more or less knowledge, work, study, inform, listen to people, take position, as we have all done now. Sometimes, though, we can talk about fears that we've experienced in the first person, and today for me is one of these days. Allow me to explain very briefly the story of my father. My father was an insurance agent. He started working at the age of seven in an agency; he was a small, familiar agency, where the whole deal was personal, from those of the old. Fifty years old, his landlord retired and he stayed the little business he loved so much. They were midgets from the north and everything began to go well, more or less well. It was the culmination of almost all a life dedicated with color to a work that he liked very much and that had been his only work. But then, perhaps you remember, there began a practice of expansion of the banking entities, which went beyond selling vacuum cleaners, dishes and insurances, either by car or by the boom of the mortgages to be accompanied by the corresponding life insurances. An expansion policy that destroyed the classic form of insurance management that existed until then and that killed all the businesses, like my father's, that were small and familiar. My father, about sixty, was left without anything: neither present nor future. And it wasn't just that, it was that I had been borrowing debts to try to rebut that little business that I was looking forward to and still had to pay off a portion of the mortgage on a little piss that I had bought and that was all I had. He was, however, lucky enough to have a family that we let go of, that we helped him, and that allowed him to reach retirement in a fairly dignified way. It's worth saying that the retirement that he had was not worth it either, but, well, we came all the way here. My father had this support and we were able to make a way together, but there are a lot of people, a lot of people, a lot of parents and families with little children who have found themselves or are in situations like my father lived and who don't have any external support, not even a chance to recede and start again. The 2008 crisis, which we all lived through; the pandemic crisis, which begins to accompany us and which is just exploiting us before us, is leaving us a lot of people for the road, but people who do not only have no resources, but also have insurmountable debts. The regulation of the second opportunity, therefore, was and is, today still more, absolutely necessary. And it is an inexcusable obligation of all political power to put on the table all possible measures of support and solution for those people who need this second vital opportunity. In the end and in the end, if your citizens don't get caught, neither will the country. That is why we can only give support to the motion presented at all its points and thank you for it. To the first two, as it reinforces the role of the Generality as the support administration, monitoring and information to the citizen so that no one loses the opportunity to acquire in the legal forecasts. So much good my father had in his day! And there is a third point, as it is asked of the Government of the State, that it is competent in this type of legislation, that it improves and complements the current legislation, with the very important forecast above all of inculcating the debts of the public right, with the modification of the regime of unimpeded goods, unifying the competences of the courts and deciding exactly what judgment is the competent, and providing more pressure to these administrations to give support to the citizen who is to be acquired in this law. Therefore, we shall vote in favour of the motion. And I personally, and let me tell you, I will also vote to put a little grit on the road so that no one can live the one my father lived again. Many thanks [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.127.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the papers, Congressman Orobig has a new turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.128.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, an acclaim, because both Ciutadans's spokesman and the People's Party's spokesman said so. We are not members of the PSC, but we are neither in Madrid nor in the Barcelona City Council. And, therefore, they are not wrong; we do not have these covenants. We can make ad hoc agreements with different political formations to certainly bring forward legislative initiatives, as they have previously made a Ciutadans agreement and the CUP in relation to a motion they presented. Therefore, this is the mark of our agreements with different political formations, and more strictly with the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, which deserve all their respect, but that our ways of doing it, today, differ so completely that it is impossible for them to associate, right? For the rest, thank the good in general; to Congresswoman Ibarra, who withdraws the emena, in congruence with the legislative framework in which we find ourselves and the initiatives that are being promoted to the different legislative chambers. Congratulate me that the People's Party changed its mind and that, unlike what it had until now, it enters the dynamic of changing also..., of being able to integrate, in this case, into the dynamics of condoning, also, all those public beliefs, done what until today it opposed. And regret that Ciutadans – and I sincerely say this – opposes this young man, I think because of the fact that he is promoting the Republican Left. You, the papers that have put us – and I say it with all respect –..., is to sweep trees with pears. It has nothing to do with strengthening the administration of justice, strengthening the turn of offices, with what we are proposing. You, as always, do electoral proselytism, so, trying to influence the collectius with the idea that the acabin voting, implying that only you defend their claims, and I believe that it is the animum of all parliamentary groups that all professionals work in the best possible conditions. For the rest, listen, that we, from the administrations, promote the knowledge of a law and that the people who have acquit themselves do not mean that we take the work to the lawyers, they will be the ones who will have to carry the requests. It will be those who have to audit or the competition administrators who have to administer the competitions and, therefore, will not do so by the Administration. We're not competing with anyone. And congruence and coherence, all of it. That we oppose the concentration in certain jutjas of the clauses only..., we would like to imply that you do not understand the difference between objective and territorial competence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.129.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.130.0	There's nothing to see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.131.0	Thank you. This debate is over, we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.132.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session with the twenty-three... [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the increase in mortality on the Spanish border]] [[302-00270/12]] ... that correspond to the motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the increase of mortality to the Spanish border, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republicà. To expose it, has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.133.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, what is going on in the Canaries these days, or these weeks, or these months, is not an emergence, because talking about "emergency could be used to camouflage a situation that is dealt with at the structural level, a situation that is global. And talking about "emergency" is confusing and thinking that everything folded is an accident. It's an accident the fire in Mòria, it's an accident that sinks some waterfalls in the Mediterranean Sea... I don't, it's not like that. They're not accidents. If we make all a traceability – we said to the previous Ple – we will discover or see or add that the model of life of the global North would not be possible, would not be sustainable, without a series of polices of resources, at the historical level, but also, obviously, today, to different countries, with wars that are fan, etc. As it is today, perhaps, the last time I intervene in this Faristol, because the legislature is over, and as I am sure that all of you, therefore, will have time now that Parliament is dissolved, and we will have some electoral campaigns, so..., between meetings and trying to scrape votes, I am sure we will have time to read some books. And what I'm gonna do is try to recommend some of us with the time I have, right? [[The speaker shows the chamber some books.]] This one, who invades whom, of Edward Romero, written during the first crisis of the falls, in 2007-2008, explains very well, therefore, how colonialism leads all these people to have to leave. And at that time, like the Zapatero plan, so, he tried to contain all these people. It's written in 2007, but it could have been written in 2020. These people who leave later find themselves with a border, the southern border of the Spanish State, one of the most violent border in the world. And I would recommend very much this book, The Border as a method, which explains very well, so, like the border, to be an obstacle to all those people who run away from war, they are also often a business. A business that it does is to wall the states, as it explains this other book, walled states, sovereignty in decline: as the states are turning into a fortress over themselves, through this construction of borders. We don't find only people who escape for economic reasons, we also find people who escape from wars between refugees, for example. This book, very interesting, from Tica Font and Eduardo Melero, explains..., Arms, business, politics and opacity, basically, does as a traceability of all Spanish arms exports from 2005 to 2017. And we can see – the other day we saw, yesterday, I think it was – images of another infant in Yemen, with obvious signs of passing fame. So if we trace, for example, bombs that fall on Yemen, we'll see that many of these bombs have been made here in the Spanish State. Or many of the bombs that are used in conflicts like Syria, that end up, for example, in the hands of rebel groups or terrorist groups. I'm sure there's another policy or other type of security and pau policies. And in this book, the Jordi Calvo, the Centre Delàs, makes a proposal, and so too, you recommend it. This guy we're talking about today is talking about pushing policies that are nothing but taps, little taps to try to plug water leaks from a model that's making water. Therefore, we must be very aware that what we approve here today, this human racer – if it is approved again, obviously – is an essential tool to save lives, but it is not a tool that goes to the scene of the problem. These days in Canaries, if you've seen pictures, you'll see the people of Maritime Rescue overflowing. And as, finally, there are citizens of the Canaries who insult: Why do you come here to rescue? Why are you rescuing these people? They're being insulted. A very popular and well-known book, which surely some of you have already read, Hannah Arendt's human condition, explains very well how many times you don't need to be responsible for situations; that simply, with his silence, they become accomplices. And, therefore, we convert, all folds, too, to account for those people who come, these strangers, they end up hating on our part. As Zygmunt Bauman very well explained, too, in this mythical book: Unknown at the door of the house. As for the unknown, sometimes, it makes us, therefore, generate hatred and violence against these people. And with these forty seconds that I am, a very interesting reading, that I think we could have some of us, so, during these days that come now. It's a backlash of Mark Fisher's articles, which is a musical, film, cinema review, which, through these cultural reviews, therefore, makes a very good and very accurate portrait of, possibly, how we have come here, how this neoliberal society has led to so much violence among so many people. Look, the legislature is coming, according to many questions, it's possible that groups that are clearly fascists enter this chamber. This book will surely also read to you many: Facha. That book that explains to us is that maybe fascism has come in faster than we think about our lives. He's come in sooner than we think, too, in this Parliament. How fascism works and how it has entered our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.135.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, I'm sorry. [[The joker laughs.]] I think it is worth beginning by thanking the intervention of Mr Wagensberg, because it is really a good way to make an intervention, making recommendations of books, that I think those who are not readable, surely, we would do very well to read, because, really, the subject we are talking about is neither simple nor quick. And, effectively, it's an emergence, an urgency that comes out of the non-res. I'll allow myself to make a bit of a recount of what's been going on in the last few months, like at least, right? We have seen today that November has marked a record of immigrant arrivals in historical Canàries, of more than eight thousand people– 8,157, in concrete terms – which means a half of 272 arrivals last month. By 2020 it is estimated that there have been more than twenty-thousand people, who have reached the costs of Canàries. Between October and November, this, the arrival in Canàries, assumed 69_percent of all the migrating people arriving in Spain. In fact, we saw the campaign of Arguineguín, thought for four hundred people, which came to have almost three_ thousand people on several days. Therefore, a completely overflowing, completely overcrowded network of gatherings, with thousands of people in the mountains and in infra-human conditions, without being able to see their family members, saw how the police prevented them from contacting the outside people, but also saw how the police prevented journalists and photographers from doing their witness work, from getting us here, up to the comfort of our home, the drama that is going on in the Canaries. The police didn't actually get it, they could see it. And from here we want to condemn him. We want to condemn him very clearly. There's no excuse for crossing the southern border. There's no excuse. Nor for the dead of the Mediterranean, for the dead to our sea. More than five hundred people, we carry only on the route up to the south coast of Espanya. The border policies of the European Union are a humane crime, and it must be possible to say with all the words: these border policies are a humane crime. The answer before one of the major humanitarian crises that we have experienced from this century, and, in part, from the past century, cannot be to close borders, militarize them and criminalize people who risk their lives in order to arrive and have a new opportunity of a better life, of a life worthy, of a life in pau. We've seen thousands and thousands of families create the sea, risk their lives, thousands of them lose their lives in some of the hundreds of shipwrecks that are produced. And when the answer comes, it's closed doors, rebuys and inhuman conditions. It's a global, democratic and human rights crisis. It's a moral crisis and it's an ethical crisis. The European Union and its member states continue without giving the political and humane response that this dramatic situation requires. Numbers of human rights NGOs, such as Metges without Borders, Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch have repeatedly denounced it: the inaction and guilt of the European Union in the face of the dead, in the face of the tragedy of migration through the Mediterranean, where of the thousands and thousands of people who believe in the sea many take refuge and many arrive in camps with worthy conditions that never arrive. We want to condemn this neglect of office and this violation of human rights by the European Union and all its member states. And so is Canaries, yes. What we have seen in Canàries is also a response that has not been at the height of what should have been a humane response. We, from the Common We can, have been clear in our approach. We have asked to ensure decent and respectable conditions for human rights for people arriving on the southern border, to be able to agile the transfers to the peninsula in order to collectively assume the opposite of the country. We need to embrace dignity and to accompany migrants in the journey. We also want to bet, and ask for legal and secure ways, to solve the migration crisis. And that, surely, passes by to review the rules of the foreign law. Some measures such as, for example, the possibility of requesting asylum in embassies, reviewing visa criteria and rethinking visas per occupation may be part of the solution. Sense of doubt, it deserves a greater reflection. And foreign law is one of the main impediments to safe lives in our country. We reject – and we have done so to the Ministry of the Interior – the orderly deportations that passed on November 10, with a deportation to Mauritania, and that today continue with the reactivation of deportations to Morocco from the Islands. It is certain that it has arrived late, that there are measures that, even so, are being implemented like, for example, an extraordinary game of the vice-presidentship of Social Rights, of 10_million euros, to attend to the smallest foreigners that have arrived. But the State must have – and today we have approved some assumptions that must be allowed – sufficient resources to give a humanitarian response to this crisis that is living on the southern border of the Spanish State. But we must also reactivate the solidarity of the territories. We have seen this week, as Barcelona has offered to welcome these fifty people. We ask, from here – and it is the thought that we have made in this sense – that the Generalitat be proactive, too, at the time of offering this network circuit to be co-responsible for the situation that is passing on to the southern border and being able to give it an answer. We haven't been able to get other ideas accepted, we've been happy to be more, to be more, to add more, but we'll support...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.136.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.137.0	...a part of the points of this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.138.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Susana Beltrán has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.139.0	Thank you. Representative of the Republican Left of Catalonia, the last days of the legislature agree with you that there has been inaction of the Government of Spain, and not only inaction of the Government of Spain, but also uncoordination of the different ministries of the Government of Spain to act before a migration flood that has overflowed. But the fact that you've overflowed the Canaries... that's not why it was unpredictable. It was predictable, we were told different entities, political elements too, that this was to come. And, despite that, it did not do enough or it did not do anything practical to prevent this humane crisis from very painful proportions for all of us. For this reason, we in the Congress of Deputies have presented a contingency plan that we hope, therefore, that the different groups will support it. That basically, what he does is he demands that there be a system of coordination between ministries. This can't happen again. And it's good that you're recommending your books for this Nadal, but we have a humane emergence that we have to face now. We have to act now. And that's why this contingency plan, where there's a coordination of the different ministries, where there's also a national relocation plan for all these immigrants who arrive on very extreme conditions. It is clear that an autonomous community cannot, for itself, cope with this allusion. And, therefore, it needs the solidarity of the rest of the autonomous communities. We fly, too, lead. That Spain has a leadership in the European Union and makes other European partners understand that the southern border is a problem for everyone. And I need to fix it and I need to take action between everyone so it's easier. Let us also, from a European point of view, create a plan to disarticulate the mafias. That, often, sometimes, they forget about this fact. Mafias that promote irregular immigration. And, therefore, it also needs a European response in this respect. And, at the same time, and this is where our papers are also, not just a national action, but a European action, but also an autonomous action. We need to strengthen social policies here in Catalonia in order to meet the vulnerable groups that we have once spoken about; vulnerable groups, whether they are migrants or not. Why? So because extreme poverty and lack of sufficient attention is common to all of them. I carry days talking to different people, people who have names and surnames, who are authentic human dramas and who are desperate for the Catalan administration. I need to give an answer to all of this. It is very likely, it is almost certain, that in the next few months the extreme poverty in Catalonia will increase – it will increase. And I need to give an answer to all this. Guaranteed citizenship income doesn't work – it doesn't work very well – social housing doesn't work, training policies don't work either. There's a whole series of people who take years to Catalonia and who are in a situation of extreme poverty and very bad. What is the Government of the Generality doing? And, in this sense, I also say: we do not trust this Government, which has had the opportunity to demonstrate that it could serve all these people, that it could have been its priorities – health, the economy, social policies – but that, after that, what we have seen is badly money, we have seen suspected of very high corruption – Mr Vendrell, for example, who directly affects the advice of Afers Socials, which is directed by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya – and a mismanagement of all social issues that directly affect people. The moment has come when there is a change of government, a moderate government, and their priorities are health, economics, social affairs and not other issues of concern to the present separatist government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret has the word, to fix his position. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.141.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillors, Members and Members, I am very grateful for Mr Wagensberg's intervention – which I think we would do well to take note of some of the readings that we have not yet done – and I also thank him for the fact that, on this occasion and in others, in committee, he has normally tried to deepen a little in a very complex matter that has, indeed, structural causes that go beyond the specific situations that can be produced and that can be dealt with as a point of departure. And, unfortunately, I have to say that the way in which we debate in parliaments does not make it particularly easy – outside, perhaps, of the study committees – that it can be deepened as it should be deepened in the themes that you raise, and that it is certainly the ones that need to be raised when we talk about these themes. Mirin, a little while ago, she went unnoticed, or relatively unnoticed, a sad ephemeris. Last November 1st was thirty-two years after the first fully documented death of a migrant person trying to reach European territory across the strait. It was a young natural from the city of Nador, twenty-three years old, who had paid 35,000_people to try to get to our cost. And this is the first case that was fully documented; obviously, not the first, probably, but the one that was fully documented. From now on, seven thousand people have lost their lives trying to cross the strait. These are figures which come from a study by Andalusia and which, with data from the International Organization for Migration, do not, in principle, contain data on the route of the Canaries. So, we're talking... And this is just the route that the International Organization for Migration in the Western Mediterranean says. There is the central route, there is the route that unites Turkey with Greece, and, therefore, we are talking about really striking figures, above all, when we think that after what there are human lives, they are people. The first thing to say is that there is no such thing as an alleged lack of foreign legislation, nor is there a deterrent effect of harsher legislation. I say that for those who are hit by the toughest, toughest demand in foreign law. With the same foreign law, before 1995 there were migration flows to Spain which today seem to us to be absolutely low, practically non-existent, and after 1995 that I think the inflection point can be considered, they began to increase markedly, with the same law, that of 1985. With the same foreign law, the one of 2000, reformed in 2001, in the cycle of economic bonança previewed to the crisis of 2008, many more foreigners arrived than they left. And, in turn, with the same foreign law between 2009 and 2015 they left Spain more strange than they hinder. This means that migration flows have much more to do with the expectations of the person making the decision to emigrate, with the situation of the economic cycle in the country of emission and in the country of collidation and with the socio-political, socioeconomic conditions of both countries, than with less or less harsh legislation. This is to defeat once again these political forces that are trying to make of an authentic human catastrophe, which has, indeed, structural causes, political and economic causes, but which are trying to make of this a trampoline for its political ascent, inciting to hatred, inciting to xenophobia, like these days, if not today itself, is making a person known to the Canaries. I'd rather not spell them out. But, in any case, when they call for a naval blockade, when they have such a little original idea – that it was already held by an Italian minister from Berlusconi – that it is the responsibility of the canonates of these vessels, we must say that from the end of the road, that what you have to do is to save lives at sea. After the foreign legislation it will indicate that it is necessary to do according to the administrative situation of each school, and what it is necessary to guarantee the conditions for everyone to actually be able to comply with the forecasts of the ordinary legislation – that of the internal order – to the community provisions and to the international treaties signed. And it's true – and I wouldn't want time to end without saying – that what has been going on at the spring of Arguineguin, and in general at the Canaries, is a case of slow and perhaps uncoordinated response to a situation that, in fact, is explained by an enormous concentration of arrivals in a very short period of time: we think that more than 13,200 arrivals between October and November, when the Canaries in 2019 had received only 2,698 arrivals by sea... Therefore, 13,200, an increment, 2019 respects 2020, by more than 1,020_per_cent, that I believe you have overflowed any device and any service; what has been put up late, but it is true that you are trying to put in place measures of structural character and not only provisional. So, anyway, I think we still have a lot to discuss, but, above all, it is very urgent to act now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.143.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, as has been said, we are ahead of a problem of structural nature, of a humane crisis, of a humane emergence of tragic dimensions and of natural, effectively, structural. Precisely because it responds to a structural model of management of its economic and geopolitical interests, on the part of the European Union and the Spanish State, to the conflict zones, to the areas from which these migrants mainly come; because it responds to these extractive policies of capital and of these states and of the European Union in these conflict zones; because it is the result of the climate change and the climate crisis and the climate emergence that is generating the model of capitalist development in many areas of the world, and because it is the result and consequence of profound and difficult inequalities that come from the colonial era and that have not been reversed. All this, of course, generates a humanitarian crisis of enormous magnitudes. We take into account that this has the consequence that migrations are produced in a situation of enormous risk, great vulnerability and fragility and a structural situation of violation of human rights. I want to emphasize that the problem is not migration. Migrations have always occurred, they are part of our reality, of a reality that, moreover, is a right. The right to migrate is an unquestionable right. And, on the other hand, obviously, our need also to gather this migration, not only our moral, ethical, social and political dues, but our need to gather it. What generates this structural problem is not only the intensification, perhaps, of these migrations, but the situation of vulnerability, fragility and violation of human rights. And that is why, indeed, we consider that the Spanish State, that the European Union, that Catalonia has the right, moral obligation, ethics and policy to gather – to gather – to raise borders and to gather. This requires, of course, repealing the foreign law, closing the CIS, opening the borders to people who come in search of asylum, to gather. And a very important issue – and I finish, President – is that it is also a policy of inclusion and integration. Because if it's already a challenge and a huge risk coming, then it's still the same or more surviving, in the face of precariousness and institutional racism that these people have to face their lives. Therefore, for all this – thank you, President, for the time – we will give support to the movement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.145.0	Thank you, President, from the seat. In politics, the background and forms are important. And the fact that we are all concerned and moved by the images that we normally see from here, on television, of desperate human beings trying to reach the Spanish coasts in search of a better life on a dangerous journey that often ends in tragedy..., the fact that it moves and worries us does not remove the fact that the forms are not important. And I say this because I think it is important to make two considerations. The first is that the proposing group, a priority partner of the Government of Spain, might well have submitted this motion to the Congress of Deputies, where I am sure that the coalition government, the most progressive government in history and the government that leaves no one behind would support the motion. And I say this because when others have ruled Spain we have been accused of being insensitive, of not being aware of this tragedy and even of having policies that would propitiate it. And now that it happens, and that others rule, I do not observe the same language and talk about guilty and responsible in an abstract way. It now governs the Socialist Party and Mrs Segovia's party, and the Ministry of the Interior directs it, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also have some responsibility in this tragedy; or not, it goes beyond ideological issues. And it is a structural problem, not only in the countries of destination, in the countries of origin as well. We will not talk about the mafias in this motion, and we believe that there are aspects..., that the motion limps in that sense. And the second consideration is that a tragedy of these characteristics cannot be dealt with with with the traces of fat brush, with which you use in the motion. Because, if not, in the end what we can think of some parliamentary groups, and not without reason, is that in fact this tragedy, I do not say that we care, but it is not the main objective. The main objective is to bring to this Parliament of Catalonia motions that will obtain a parliamentary majority that will criminalize the Spanish state, and in the end that is really its only objective. And so, in reality, you do not become part of the solution, but, if you do not become part of the problem, at least do not contribute to finding the solution together. I therefore believe that, without prejudice to the substance, the forms and forms used in the motion are very important. And that's not my party that rules Spain, but I think they're not the most appropriate ways to try not only to detect the problem, but to try to find solutions among all. And his motion gives me the impression that he does not seek that, but simply seeks the goal – usually, by the way – of criminalizing the Spanish State; whatever the matter, it is now with this tragedy, but surely it will be for many other matters. Criminalizing the State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.146.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.147.0	... Spanish to achieve its goal, I insist, to present itself to the elections as the political parties that seek – that seek..., only seek...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.148.0	Congressman, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.149.0	...criminalize the Spanish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.150.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Aurora Madaula has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.151.0	Well, good afternoon, thank you very much. Deputies, Councillors, this very day the Greek press is ugly because the Spanish State is the European country that is most energetically opposed to sanctioning Turkey. And they'll tell me, what does this have to do with the subject we're dealing with? The answer is easy: everything. Because sometimes, when we address the dramatic issue of how a part of immigration up above in dramatic conditions on the southern borders of the Spanish State, we run the risk of addressing the issue in a finalist way, in a strict, clausive manner, of humanitarian action, and it is obvious that we need to seek solutions to humanity, political solutions at that very moment: to guarantee the elementary rights of those who arrive, health care, care that is carried out, psychological care, housing; but there are near-sighted questions – there are near-sighted questions – some exhibits, and others that are hidden, which explain why these situations are produced and will continue to be produced if not women. And it is this perverse, essentially anti-democratic alliance between Turkey and the Spanish State. It's one of those examples. It is true that the conjunction of the European Union pays. Europe pays Turkey to be the bad cop with unregulated immigration, but even in this map of unjustifiable complicity the Turkish Spanish alliance shines with its own light. It is a commercial alliance that puts special emphasis on the sale of weapons and, above all, it is a geopolitical alliance that draws the worst map we could imagine, that of the violation of human rights, of individual democratic principles and collectivities. Because the commercial pacts, the military supplies went in the direction of repeating the history, the worst history, which is extermination in Armenia. Before that, one and a thousand times we will repeat that we want Catalonia to be a Europe in the promotion, knowledge and recognition of human rights in Armenia, in Xiprus and in the southern border of the Spanish State. Because this policy, this geopolitics of destruction of rights practiced by the Spanish State, and which has a global dimension, ends up having a local realization. When a judge of Ceuta files the case against seven civilian guards accused of causing the death of fifteen immigrants who were looking to arrive at the border of the Tarajal, there is no shameful and allying action, not only, but it acts with the same principles that inspires and preaches the geopolitics that the Spanish State practices, with indifference if the president of Mr. Rajoy or Mr. Sánchez with the vice president of the Churches. The same state policy, governments which governs, which I kept open the CIS, even though they said that the tankers, which correspond to the Spanish State to close them, but that the Catalan Government, the Catalan institutions – the Government and this Parliament – have asked on repeated occasions that the tankers. We're tired of saying that human rights can't stand up for trossets: either it's all respect or it doesn't respect itself, and that's what the Spanish State does. This is a well-intentioned young man, and, surely, put the focus on this small part of the huge truncheons that is Spanish predemocracy. Condemns the deaths of migrants to the Alboran Sea, to the Strait of Gibraltar, to the Canary Islands, and considers that they are not tragic, but the concrete and inevitable result of the murderous policies of the Member States of the European Union, and in concrete terms of the Spanish Government. It reproves the humane inaction of the current government of the State and, concretely, before the rise of the mortality of its border. Before this policy, this difficult and irresponsible political action of the State, it is up to us to reiterate and counter the offer of the Government of Catalonia to establish these humanitarian corridors for forced displacement, and which we have approved on repeated occasions in this Parliament. We will not tire of demanding from the Spanish Government, the Spanish Government the fission of the violation of human rights in the migration management of its borders, as Human Rights Watch has repeatedly denounced. For all this, and since it couldn't be any other way, we'll give support to this young man. Finally, however, we want to insist on the fact that we do not have competence in these actions, on this issue, we cannot be oblivious to the political capacities of concrete action to deal with the effects of difficult situations of human crisis, but let the discovery in a cruel way that will only be from a state that we can serve and obey completely and globally and that imposes on us and proposes to us a political action based on making all rights effective and for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And in later term, and to pronounce on the papers presented, has a new turn of the Member Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.153.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, first, before anything else, please the whole of most of you. Regret that not all points are coming together for all the forces for a few words. To say that we wanted to maintain the fact of « murderous policies, as expressed, in these terms, and, in fact, we copied it exactly from the communication of Metges without Borders, because we believe that it is important to say things for his name; to say things for his name is what will not make us handle the responsibility that we have in everything folded, and that is why we did not want to eliminate it. Together for Catalonia, it has been a very interesting topic, and it does not give us time to play, which is the topic of externalisation of the border. He spoke about the case, therefore, of the European Union with Turkey; we could also talk about the case of the Spanish State with Morocco, or the case of the European Union and she participated directly, in this case, also, of the civil war in Libya at these times. To Citizens, tell them that their views, possibly, with all the motions that we have made this legislature, is what we have been, perhaps, a little closer to. I think they've had a pretty good focus, but..., and it's also been seen now in his intervention at the Faristol, and excuses, that often use words that generate a collection of imaginations that doesn't favor, such as talking about "alau when we're talking about the arrival of people who are trying to save life; we can't talk about a "alau that causes a problem to our borders. I think we all need to be very polite with this vocabulary. And, finally, tell the deputy of the People's Party, who had to make them fall, like that emoticon of WhatsApp who came up with a girl and a girl doing the vertical, so, in order not to vote for this young man, that I think he didn't read it, because, indeed, it was very hard with the Spanish government, he was talking about "murderful politicians, and that I think you also lived on another planet, maybe, or saw it, because you would have to be aware that every time you, that I, that any of these people in this room take a car, we are buying dead people, we are buying wars; the same way that when we buy the stuff we wear, that when every morning, [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I'm finished, President – we're having a coffee made in Llatinoamerica with a price that's not all right, or simply with mobile phones that we bring to our butxaques. Be aware of this is what it will do to us, perhaps, to get to the bottom of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Question to the Government on the violation of children's rights in the Catalan education system]] [[300-00339/12]] When this debate is over, let's go to the next point, and start with the interrogations. In concrete terms, with the question to the Government about the violation of children's rights in the Catalan education system, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The question was raised by Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.155.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. One of the many lies used to defend the so-called "linguistic immersion" is that it is the only system that guarantees social cohesion and equal opportunities. This, from the outset, is absurd, because if we take into account that this system only applies in Catalonia, it would be as much as saying that social cohesion and equal opportunities do not exist in the rest of the world. But it's just that, besides being absurd, it's a lie. In fact, the Catalan education system is absolutely classy: if you have money, you can be educated in more than one language, and if you don't have money, you have to settle for an education only in Catalan. Look, I'm going to give you some examples. [[The speaker shows the chamber several fulls.]] Montessori Palau, who defends the theory of the mother tongue, like us, and have different vehicular languages. Colegio Ágora : offers a true multilingual education in which the vehicular languages are English, Catalan and Spanish, which is just what Citizens propose, by the way, and it is the same thing that SEK-Catalunya offers. And here we have the French High School, which is where Jordi Pujol decided to take his children, and they have four vehicular languages: French, Spanish, Catalan and English. I mean, if you want to educate you in Spanish you have to go to the French High School, which don't tell me it's not weird. Then we also have Aula, which is where Artur Mas decided to take his children, and they have four vehicular languages: Catalan, Spanish, French and English. And we also have La Miranda, which is where José Montilla took her children, and they have three vehicular languages: Spanish, Catalan and English. And so I could go on, because this is what all private centers do, which, in addition, use it as an advertising claim. Of course, private centers that most Catalans cannot access. And the truth is that it is very rare that linguistic immersion is as good as you say, but that private centers opt for a multilingual system as proposed by Citizens; it is very rare that linguistic immersion is as good as you say, but people who have money choose to take their children to schools that have the model proposed by Citizens. But the rarest of all is that the defenders of linguistic immersion, such as Jordi Pujol, Artur Mas and José Montilla, defend linguistic immersion for the children of others, because for theirs they do not want it, for theirs they want the model proposed by Citizens. It is that, in fact, even his boss, Mr Oriol Junqueras, does not want the linguistic immersion in Catalan for his children. How are we going to believe it's such a good system if even your boss doesn't want it for his children? Why are you so classy that you impose a monolingual system on Catalan children while allowing the rich to have a multilingual system? Is that your way of perpetuating the economic and social elites? Because that is the Catalan educational system: multilingual training for those who have money, immersion in Catalan for all others. And, look, I was telling them that the so-called "linguistic immersion, far from guaranteeing social cohesion, is a discriminatory model that violates the fundamental rights of the child. UNESCO has recognized since 1953 and the UN since 1989 the right of children to be educated in their mother tongue. If we take into account that in Catalonia more than half of Catalans have Spanish as their mother tongue, it means that you are violating the fundamental rights of more than half of Catalan students. And since the European Union takes the violation of fundamental rights very seriously, both the European Parliament and the Council of Europe have already said that they are going to investigate what is happening in Catalonia. In particular, in the European Parliament last month Ana Losada appeared, who is the President of the Assembly by a bilingual school [[Funnel veils]] , and most MEPs – if they can shut up, please – saw clear signs of violations of children's rights in Catalonia, and that is why they have kept the cause open. By the way, another of the many lies they repeat is that linguistic immersion is an internationally recognized model of success. So intro, it's a little weird that an international success model doesn't apply in any other country in the world. But, in fact, it is quite the opposite: in the European Parliament they took their hands to the head when they found out that in Catalonia one cannot study in the official language of the country. And I will read to you what the Estonian MEP, Yana Toom, said when she learned that here in Catalonia half of the children cannot be educated in their mother tongue. I quote literally: "This is clear discrimination. This isn't normal. You see, Mr. Counselor, the world looks at us and horrors itself. Is it not embarrassing for you in the European Parliament to be held responsible for a system that discriminates and violates the fundamental rights of children? And the same goes for the PSOE and the PP, who have been allowing the fundamental rights of children to be violated in Catalonia for decades. And it has not been until Citizens have reached the European institutions that the issue has begun to be investigated. And the Council of Europe has also said that it will monitor closely what happens in Catalonia thanks to the work of Maite Pagaza, Jordi Cañas and the rest of the citizens' comrades, who have reported the barbarities of the Celaá law. This law initially maintained Spanish as a vehicle language, but Platforma per la Llengua made an amendment that Esquerra Republicana submitted, with Podemos, and which the socialists accepted. This amendment defines Spanish as a vehicle language, which is so serious that it has already motivated the complaint of the RAE, the former directors of the Cervantes Institute and the American Academy of Spanish Language. Well, this amendment not only marks Spanish as a vehicle language, but also opens the door to control that students speak Catalan in the courtyard, in the dining room and in out-of-school activities, as Platform per la Llengua made explicit in a document that you can all read and that you presented just the next day of passing the law. It should be remembered that controlling the language they speak in the courtyard is one of the obsessions of Platforma per la Llengua, which have come to spy on children in the courtyards of schools to make a pseudolinguistic study, which obviously does not sign any linguist, because it skips all the ethical and deontological codes. And you, Mr. Counsellor, allowed espionage and justified it by saying that it was observation of incognito, when in no scientific discipline in the world is this observation of incognito accepted. And you will pass to history as the counselor who allowed and justified the espionage to children at the time of the courtyard. And that pseudo-study of Platforma per la Llengua now serves as an excuse to control the language in which students speak outside of school hours. That socialists have allowed such a scam, that socialists have allowed a xenophobic entity such as the Platform for Language to have drafted part of this country's Organic Education Act is something that will be chasing them for a long time, and of course by Citizens it will not stay, because we are going to resort to the Constitutional Court, the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission and wherever it takes to protect minors. Mr. Counsellor, in the previous plenary I asked him, and again I asked him, about the methodology and the teaching and pedagogical criteria to get students to have a good level of Spanish at two_hours a week, and he was not able to give me either. And he wasn't able because there isn't, because only from magical thought can you hold that you get a good level of Spanish without studying Spanish. And don't tell me again that the evidence proves that this is true, because you know it's a lie; there's no homologable evidence that shows the level of Spanish, because each autonomous community does its own, both in primary and secondary, and in selectivity. Of course, when I say absurdity, the one who takes the palm is the one who told me, and I'm going to quote it literally so that they can see: "Language structures are of a language and, therefore, the education system of Catalonia in function of language is based on the linguistic structures that ensure that all students complete their studies in full and complete competitions of official languages of the State. Now, Mr. Counselor, would you be able to hold this without blushing in front of your international counterparts? Would you be able to tell the Bavarian Education Advisor: "Hey, don't students need to learn high German, because when they learn Bavarian they already learn German? Or would you be able to go to Perpinyà and say: "Look, don't students need to study in French, study in Catalan and when they study in Catalan they already learn French? Because, if you do, please invite me, it's that I don't want to lose the stupid face you're going to get. What is it to say to you: « But man of God, what do you believe, that this is like when you buy a pack of yogurts and they give you a little ice cream from the beach, that when you study German at the same time you learn English and when you study French at the same time you learn Italian? What are you, two for one of the tongues, Mr. Counsellor? Look, I'd ask you to have a little bit more respect for the intelligence of the citizens, because when you answer me this kind of barbarity that I've just quoted literally isn't just disrespecting me, it's disrespecting all Catalans, because most Catalans are sensible people who know perfectly well that when you learn one language, you don't get the other. All Catalans know that learning a language costs a lot of effort, and in Catalonia it also costs a lot of money, because you are classists, who do not allow children to have in public education what they do have in private. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.156.0	To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.157.0	Citizens – Citizens – it is a political formation that came about with a clear will, with the will to break social cohesion from the crisis so as to maintain the system of economic, political, judicial and military power of the post-Franchism, this system of political, economic power that caused them to be born, which paid for their birth. Citizens – Ciutadans – was born with an obsession, with an obsession to impose their will: to light the linguistic debate in our home to destroy cohesion. And he sorted out a way, a way to get his plans: the school, which they wanted to place in the center of the chrism, of the confrontation. But all this, Ciutadans – Citizens – was born without ideology. No social ideology, no other political ideology than breaking up cohesion, no society. For this reason, Ciutadans – Citizens – has ended up adopting political positions inserted in the most thronged populism, playing from the extreme right, with which the State and Europe go hand in hand and feel very comfortable. That's why they also have and tend to have more electoral problems every time. Because they have now broken into the political landscape extreme right-wing formations more diaphanous than you, with a populism still more uncomplicated, and, you see for where, with ideology and everything. This is why they are now returning to their origins: chrism, social disruption, the linguistic battle and attacks on school. That's where they were born, that's where they're going now to try to survive electorally. Like his masters Donald Trump and Bolsonaro, they deny the reality to create their false truth. And they believe their false truth, we insist, in some statements that I doubt you believe. But, as much as they repeat this false truth, reality is coughing up. That the U.S. elections were manipulated didn't even believe Donald Trump's party. That the fires in the Amazon that are deforesting a very rich region do not have to do with the policy of the Government of Brazil are not believed by the advisors of the Bolsonaro. You've been repeating these falsehoods about the Catalan school, you've been reiterating them. You've tried to crawl, or you're trying to crawl, you want to crawl. I don't freak out. When they crawl on TV, it's you, the deputies and the deputies. And that's it. Because they don't get freaked out, with the cricket. Because cricket isn't going out here to scream, cricket is the fan in the street. Cryspace in the language. You've got me – that does a lot, huh? I've got, I've got, I've got and I've got – the UN and UNESCO. The UN and UNESCO, when they talked about language at school, did they know which languages they spoke? Why do you always get that... you know what language they were talking about? The defense of minority languages. Is the castle a minority language? Is the castle a minority language? Is that a minority language? This morning a deputy from her group read us the Cervantes report on the use of the castle in the world: it is a language of the greatest in the world, the castle. Is she a minority in our house? And I can give you an example: here you can speak in Catalan, in castle or in Arabic. Catalan MPs and Catalan MPs at the Congress of Deputies can only speak in the castle. They can only speak in castle, and here you can speak in català, in castle or in Aranès. The minorities referred to by the UN and UNESCO do not have to do with the castle, do not have to do with the castle in the world. They don't have to see the castle in Catalonia – they don't have to see the castle in Catalonia. The castle is not a minority language in Catalonia, it is a majority language in many areas: in the jutjats, in the audiovisual world and in the individual use of whom it wants to serve, as who wants to serve the català, as who wants to serve the orange as it is right for everyone to serve the language they want. And when it refers to the agreements that have been made in the European Parliament, not to the initiatives presented, because everyone can present initiatives in the European Parliament – and here too should be able to present initiatives, but you know that, don't you? But in the European Parliament, if you can present free-of-charge initiatives, the only one that has been approved is one that refers to the use of mother tongue with students with developmental difficulties – it is the only one that has been approved. Therefore, there was no discussion on the substance of linguistic immersion – no discussion approved – in the European institution. Languages, like content linked to materials, do not learn in a winged way. Languages do not learn in a single way, they learn in relation to the linguistic repertoire of each person, in relation to the contents they carry and in relation to the spaces of use available. For this reason, our education system has always taken refuge in the establishment of percentages of use from one language to the Catalan schools. Learning customization is key to student education success, and language, language structures are the basis of all learning. Our system works because all the students sun the same objectives – all the students, the same objectives – which is fairness. That this is equity. The same domain of official languages and, at least, one foreign language for the entire student to complete the compulsory stage. And all the students of our country, in finalizing the compulsory stage, have a linguistic competence in Catalan and Castilian, and also in the Aran Valley. All the students have a linguistic competence in Catalan and Castilian. He's getting our education system. Segregating or in percentages would not achieve it. And we already know what the minority language would be, segregating or in percentages: the usual. The one that's always been. The language model of the Catalan school has like vertebrate eix, first, Catalan language, and encourages the development of competition in castle. And it ensures the full mastery of both the castle and the català of all the alumni. It is clear that inequalities persist between the Catalan language and the Spanish language. The presence of the català still needs a wider and more recurred. The school is a guarantee that all citizens of the future will be able to develop their lives in the language they want, and their work, in the two languages of the country. And that's what the school has to do: to ensure that all citizens can develop their lives in the language they want and their work in any of the two official languages of the country, and in the case of the Aran Valley, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.158.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the line up, she's got a new turn on the congresswoman. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.159.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, did you know that the reason for this inquiry is the violation of children's fundamental rights? Because he has not talked about this at any time, and here in Catalonia the fundamental rights of children are violated. And there's a case that seems especially bloody to me, and it's that of students with special educational needs. I'm going to make the most obvious cases. The first case is that of deaf pupils; then, children with autistic spectrum disorder and, finally, children with specific language disorder. In the case of deaf children, the Generalitat does not inform them of their right to learn the Catalan sign language, which is in most cases their mother tongue. And that ends up leading to linguistic deprivation syndrome, with severe cognitive and psychosocial consequences. In the case of Spanish-speaking students who have autistic spectrum disorder or specific language disorder, they are seriously harmed, since the difficulties they already have in acquiring and developing language..., you are harmed because they are prevented from being educated in their mother tongue, which makes the situation even more difficult for them. We have cases of children who, despite having optional reports that they have to be able to learn in their mother tongue, you prevent them. Counselor, what does it feel like to harm students, children who already have it harder than the rest? And I ask you, because it is an inquiry to you, although then you do not answer anything I ask you, but this question would also have to be answered by the separatist parties, would have to be answered by the commons, would have to be answered by the socialists, because all of them defend the evil so-called ‘linguistic immersion'. In other words, they harm students with special educational needs. And this is already a right recognised by the European Union. It is clear that you are not going to do anything to guarantee the rights of pupils with special educational needs or the Government of Spain. In fact, the Celaá law is intended to go – imitating you, by the way – emptying special education centres so that they end up being mere resource centres. And I'm telling you, they're going to have us in front of them, that we're going to do everything we can so that the kids can go to the centers that their families choose. And since we cannot trust you or the Government of Spain, because you put your ideology before the welfare of children, we have had to come to Europe. And in the European Parliament, thanks to my colleagues Maite Pagaza and Jordi Cañas, it has been approved, as a fundamental right of the European Union, that children with special educational needs can be educated in their mother tongue. Finally! Citizens have had to come to do justice to these children. And what are you going to tell me now, Mr. Counselor? What is it that everyone in the European Union is obsessed with language? That the European Union was created to put an end to linguistic immersion? Look, the European Union was created to put an end to nationalism and to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all Europeans, which, by the way, are exactly the same founding principles as Citizens. And I have to tell you that, man, you European policy seems to me to be scraped off. Don't you know that Citizens are in the Liberal group, which is the third group in the chamber? , that in the populists go other groups of this camera, but not Citizens? We are with the Liberals and Democrats. And as I have already told you, the rights of all students are being violated here in Catalonia. Spanish speakers are prevented from being educated in their mother tongue, and this condemns them to have worse academic results, as different studies show, and in many cases they do not even come out with a good level of Catalan. And, if you don't believe me, talk to Catalan teachers at the institutes on the outskirts of Barcelona. Let's see how many people tell him that Catalan students come out with a good level of Catalan. I invite you to whatever you want for everyone to tell me that yes, that they come out with an excellent level of Catalan, come on. It also harms Catalan-speaking students because it is difficult for them to have a good level of Spanish, which is one of the most spoken languages in the world. Of course, Spanish is not in danger, do not put in our mouth things that we have not said. And don't tell me that Catalan speaking students speak perfectly Spanish, because you just have to listen to the speakers of the separatist parties to know that this is not true. And, if you don't believe me, I suppose you will believe your partner, Mr Ernest Maragall, who was also Education Advisor, who said, and I quote textually: "I will speak of a few friends of Olot that the diumenge his directives showed me the difficulties they had to make a presentation in castle. That I don't say it, that Ernest Maragall says it, that he's from his party. Counselor, can you explain to me how Catalan speaking students learn perfectly Spanish with two_hours a week and yet Spanish speaking students need twenty_hours to learn Catalan? What are you saying with that, that Catalan speakers are smarter than Spanish speakers, and that is why one needs two_hours and the other twenty? Look, most students get hurt by the so-called ‘linguistic immersion', and I think they would do well to recognize that at once. This is where it's come from, they're wrong. Let's all work together for a model that works. Citizens are very clear about this: respect for mother tongues and various vehicular languages. It says the UN, it says the UNESCO...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.160.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.161.0	... and it is also said by all private centers where you lead your children to a multilingual system. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.162.0	To replicate, the counselor has the word another time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.163.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, you have such a complex mental structure that I pretended to answer to the first intervention something that you talked about in the second. You're hard. He's already embarrassed me as he called his inquiry, because it looked like a science-fiction movie title, it's the title of a horror movie, the terror of Citizens and Citizens, if I have anything to do with education in our country. The terror that we would all have if Ciutadans or Citizens had something to see with the education of the country. I have already told him that the only one that the European Union has done is that which I have already told him, that it is the linguistic treatment that requires some students with developmental problems. And this is happening, and if you have cases you don't, go to the inspection and it'll work, if you have cases you don't. What's possible, huh? I don't deny it. Go to the inspection and he'll work. But I can tell you something else: you don't have any credibility, you don't have any credibility to talk about school, not one. Because you don't have any credibility. Miri, I'll explain a simple thing – simple. On October 10, 2018, you came out here and with exasperating vehemence said: "Mr. Counsellor, pass the deep links of our schools. Then he made an appearance at the committee that took out a lot of cases of deep loops that I went to unmounting him, some of which with inclusive child tales. And, besides, it was a pretty viral video, because it was like fun and everything, first, the question, which was very fun, and then the answer. Escotti, miri, his party just tweeted last week, saying: "There are more and more ties in schools against the Celaá law and in defense of the educational system. So, are the laces good or painful for the color? Are those tarongs good links? Is it possible to put ties to the schools? [[Some applause.]] Should we put ties to the schools? At the Catalan schools there were no deep gaps, and when there were none, we took them out. You're setting up party ties. A Citizen's tweet – a Citizen's tweet. Why? Because they have no credibility, because they have no ideology, because the only one they have is the will of chrispah, because they have no other will than this. They don't have any ideology. Change every day to give birth. And the ties are good or painful for the color, Congresswoman, for the color? You're screaming for ties to the schools. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They were doing it, weren't they? That's right, that's right. That's right. That's right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I didn't deny it. Listen, don't deny it. I'm very hard to taste. That they're incoherent? It tastes so hard to me. That they don't have ideology? It tastes so hard to me. That they say one thing in one place and they do one thing in another? I know a lot about your voters – I know a lot about your voters. But, listen, the Celaá law – I already said it..., first, you, that they confuse everything, what do you want, that I, that I speak on behalf of the Government of the Generality, have now commented on political party statements at the Congress of Deputies? I don't have a political party here right now, I'm a general government advisor. I don't have a political party here right now. I am an advisor to the Government of the Generality. I know you don't have a conception of the institution, and less of the Generality. I already know. But in any case, I'm telling you what I've always said to you: I don't tie up schools, but they do something more important – I've always said it all over the legislature, and I'm done with that today: they take their raw hands off the school, they take their raw hands off the students, they take their raw hands off the faculty. Posin, if you want, tarong ties to his house. They have all the right, but stop – stop – putting your raw hand at school. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.164.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about open and secure schools]] [[300-00344/12]] The next question is about open and secure schools, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republicà. In order to expose her, Mrs. Raquel Sans has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.165.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, we'll talk about schools in a quite different way, huh? I hope I can do it with quite a difference. In a couple of weeks' time, the final point will be set for the first quarter of the 2020-2021 course, also coinciding with the closure of this parliamentary term. And we think it's a good time to balance the return to school for more than a million students since last September when, let's remember, they glided over the heart of the course many uncertainties, many doubts. A fact, on the other hand, of everything understandable, if we take into account the pandemic situation that we are living in Catalonia and, obviously, throughout the world. It wasn't easy. Actually, it wasn't easy. And there wasn't a lot of opinion. There was someone who thought that it was going to be open yes or yes, that it was going to be open everything; there was someone who thought that everything was going to be telematic, and therefore that there were no people of face-to-face; who bet for a medium term and for a semi-presence. In any case, what the Government of the Generality did, and especially the Department of Education, unequivocally betting on the reopening of the schools, and the presenceality in the compulsory teaching, was a political decision – a political decision. A political decision that had to be taken, therefore, meet a reality and complexity of that time, with more than 5,400 very diverse school centres, with centres in urban areas, with centres in rural areas, with a lot of difference between them. With resources, too, staff and limited material, even though sometimes in this hemicicle feeling to speak up the opposition seems that resources are not finished, but yes, they are. Unfortunately, resources are finite, and therefore the actions to be taken must be based on available resources. And it was also necessary to make a decision with scientific uncertainties, despite the fact that at that time it was already pointed out that the scoundrel was a little transmitting, but there were many uncertainties at that time. In fact, the later studies, such as the pediatric study, one of the most important that has taken place, and that has recently led the Valley of Hebron, reveal that a child infects eight times less than an adult, and that causes only 8_percent of the infections to the family nucleus. Therefore, I am well aware that zero risk does not exist, this study shows that from a scientific point of view too open the schools, obviously with all the security measures that have taken and all the efforts that have been made and that follow the educational community, and also the primary care professionals, has been a uncertain decision. If we analyze the data so that we can have a more global perspective on what this beginning of the course has entailed, I think it is worth noting that at the highest moment of the peak of infection, at the highest moment, 95_per_cent of the students continued to attend the school, and did so face-to-face. 95_per_cent, huh? , at the most algid moment. And today, if I don't miss the data, it's 98 per cent of the student and 99 per cent of the faculty. I think more over there, don't I? , of individual cases and personal situations – that I'm sure we've all lived, that I'm sure we all know –, I think it's important to see the globality of data and to understand that opening the schools has been a uncertain decision, because the schools are sure. On the other hand, beyond the data they have to do with the pandemic, I think we need to focus on the benefits of schooling for children and their families. And we think, in this sense, that it is very important to highlight the importance of the school, that it has it, for all children, but that it has it, especially for the children of the most vulnerable families. Because the school, for many children, is equal opportunities, because the school is learning, the school is training, but also emotional and effective greetings for these children. And we don't have to talk about this either, and we don't have to talk about this little guy either. I believe, moreover, that it is worth placing an element. An element foreshadowed, huh? , to the pandemic. The data that assess the school income in Catalonia indicate that students with a very low school income – those who drop out of school and those who finish their process or without a title or, despite having a title, have not obtained a minimum preparation to be able to cope successfully with the social and labour demands of adult life – represent, as a minimum – attention to the given –, one_of_each_four. The most striking of this reality, and where we need to put the emphasis, is that an analysis of the social profile of these young people and young people shows us very clearly that the sociocultural level of families is determining at the time of predicting the chances of success or failure in their school career. These are the facts of a study by the Bofill Foundation that reveal to us, therefore, this reality of the students of this country. And this is the mark that since the Department of Education we know that it has taken into account, too, at the time of taking the decision, I insist, political, to open the schools. And, obviously, it's up to you to thank the work of all the professionally educated, sanitary, and also of the children of this country that you've done, they're doing very well, that, despite all the difficulties, they're doing very well. Surely, if now, counselor, we could pull back, with all the information we have, we didn't close the schools in the first wave. Because we're clear that confinement wasn't the same for everyone, especially for the children, because it's not the same to confine yourself to an unspoilt piss that you do in a house. It is not the same to confine oneself to teleworking couples that with working couples in essential sectors. It's not the same to confine yourself if you have to call it if you don't have it. It is not the same to confine yourself to a house where tickets have not been reduced than to another affected by an ERT. And so we can go on and on, because during the confinement they have become more manifest than any of these inequalities. In any case, I believe it is up to us to reiterate our gratitude to the entire educational community. And, if I may, counselor, to the whole Department of Education, which, despite the doubts, despite the uncertainties and the counter headlines – because there were and there were many – worked during the summer, planned and did a job that maybe you don't see, but in any case, it's essential because today we can say that we have the open schools and that they will still be there. Because the schools, as I was saying, are safe. I talk to the congresswoman, but also, and above all, I talk to the sea. And as the mother would also like to make an important point to ask – and I don't know how many times we have done it – the Government of the State to do the work as well, and to set aside the paid conciliation permit for the father and mother of confined infants who have given denial in the Covid test. Because not to do so is to leave in the background many families that cannot dispense with a single euro of their son. Because many of them have a_euro. And because in these cases we already know who ends up always losing: we are the women. You can only see the data previous to the pandemic. 93_percent of the excesses for the care of infants asked for the gifts. Not to mention the single-maritime families. And monomarentals are not free, because they are the vast majority of families of a single member. And, therefore, the difficulties they have to reconcile, if they have a confinement, which, above all, is not remunerated. Therefore, as we have asked of the Republican Left since last March, so that the State gives response to the needs of these families. It is his competence, and therefore his responsibility. Therefore, thank you, counselor, and thank you to José María, the Tere and Laura, and to all the teachers and all the staff who work with my children every day. And I'm sure I could extend it, I'd extend it, to all the professionals who work with the sons and daughters of the deputies and deputies of this chamber. School is an essential service, and we have no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.167.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the pandemic has overshadowed the education system. He took us past the course because we had to literally close one day for the other, and not be prepared to do so. This course has also been translated into the health measures that we have had to apply to schools and institutes, some measures that change, which have changed the normality of educational centres. We are about to finish, as the honourable Member said, the first quarter of this course, despite all the catastrophic predictions, despite all the rebuffed pressures during the summer and, above all, in September, which we wanted to dedicate from our proposal to open the schools and make them face-to-face. We're about to finish a quarter that has developed with normality in the nonnormality in which we find ourselves. And this we have to live as a collective success, as a success of the whole society, as an example that when we work folded, having clear the final proposal, that in this case, it is nothing but to guarantee the education and emotional well-being of our infants and young people, then we get out. It's true that in March we closed the schools. It was the most prudent decision with the data – very few – that we had, and now we would not do it again or we would not do it again. That's for sure. In fact, we didn't do it at the earliest moment of the second day. And we'll put all our efforts together with the government so that we don't do it again while it's possible. We don't want to close the schools again. They can't shut down the schools. We will not do this to guarantee the right to education, obviously, but above all, and especially, to guarantee our children and young people their social relationship, a place that provides them with not only academic knowledge, but also vital learning in the emotional and relational sphere. Because academic learning may work at a distance, and not in all cases, but pants cannot replace contact with companies and companies and cannot replace the need for interaction with teachers and teachers. The school is the second area of reference for infants and young people, the place where they spend more hours after their home, and for some, directly, the first, because their home is not a safe or comfortable space. As the honourable Member says, we have centres with a very high social complexity. We have 236,000 children and young people, almost 24_percent of our students, at risk of poverty or social exclusion, children and vulnerable young people for whom it was, it is essential and necessary to recover the presence and contact with their educational environment. Effectively, starting the course with the highest normality on September 14 was a health decision, it was a pedagogical decision and it had to be a political decision, because it is our duty and our obligation to always act as the ultimate objective of making the most beneficial decisions for infants and young people. Getting there wasn't easy. In a situation where uncertainty governs normality, we found all sorts of reticences. Of course, but we had the conviction that we should do it. They were months – from May to September – to think and rethink, to make and refer protocols, to adapt to the evolution of health data, which did not stop to evolve, to talk with the assemblies, to talk with the directions of the centers, to talk with the federations of couples and seas to look for the best proposals of security that we would have to change, perhaps, the day after, because new data or study appeared to us. But we had the clear objective: to return to the classroom with all possible security measures. Opening the schools has been a success of the entire society. And, first of all, a success of the educational community, of the directorates, which worked for the week-ends scheduled for September 14th in order to be able to open; of the teachers and the teacher, who did hand and hand; of the administrative staff and the servants; of the educational staff. Without them they could not open and have made a great deal of effort and dedication, a great deal of effort and often a dedication that is not recognized to them. But thanks also to the student, who followed the safety indications without discussion. And to the families, because without their responsibility it would not have been possible, because they have agreed to stop doing things that until now were normal. And a thank you also to the healthcare staff, because – the primary care staff, especially – the public health staff has helped us make it possible for the schools to be a safe place. Without the health personnel, we couldn't even open it. And you can say, on today's date, that the data are positive. We have always had lower data on the influence of the pandemic in school than in the community. We've always had less. We've made nearly 550,000 PCRs in school. We were going to say that in the first quarter we would make 500,000. Thanks to the effort of public health, they have already made more than 550,000 positive PCRs, and the percentage of positive PCRs is under all age groups, from children to professional training, under the same age group, in the case of the majors, or under the general population, and we are, since November 27, under the 5_per_cent, which is recommended by the WHO, when we are not yet in the community and society. And from the department we have to close our commitment with as much presence as possible in all educational stages. Our students – all – need to do practical sessions, need to contact the teacher, need socialization with their companions, need to live a life that does not remain locked at home. Infants were surely the hardest-hit age band in the first confinement. They were the ones who couldn't get out for nothing, the ones who had to be locked up for everything. The young people were then the most guilty. And young women need to socialize, they need to get out, they need to live, they need to do a lot of things. And we are this output valve, in many cases. We need to keep the schools open from the format, pedagogical and academic point of view, teaching, but especially from an emotional point of view and affection. The student has his place of reference in the centers, and, besides, we are experiencing a health, economic and social crisis, it is true. All sectors are the sector most affected by the crisis. And that's true: all sectors are the most affected sector. They all come out and say it, and they're right: all sectors are very affected. But as a result of the health, economic and social crisis, we are also experiencing a community crisis, which goes further. This community crisis, relationships, contact, formation, behavior, socialization, can't allow me to curse a whole generation. We can't allow a generation to leave the band. And that's our responsibility. If the health crisis has the public health system its tool, the community crisis has its tool in the education system. We are, if I may, the doctors, the midwives and the nurses and the nurses of the community crisis. So let's not lock up schools like we did. They can't lock up. We are the key to the community and we are also the key to the country's immediate future. And I end up with this enormous gratitude to everyone who's made the schools open. To everyone, to the professionals of the educational field, to the families, to the assemblies, to the political parties, that they have also given their hand, to everyone; thanks to everyone that to August seemed to end up feeling a catastrophe, now is surely one of the great Community successes of response to the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.168.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the balance of government action]] [[300-00337/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the balance of government action, an question presented by the Socialist and Uniting Parliamentary Group to move forward. To expose her, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.169.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies and deputies, the legislature, the dotzene legislature, is coming to an end, and it is time to make it a global balance. They are common, interpellations like these at the end of the legislatures. I put forward the concise summary of what his government has been for us. It will not alienate him, nor will it please him, I suspect, but for us this has been a government that from its very constitution has been a government without plans, without ideas, without strategy and, certainly, mismanagement. In fact, it is difficult to make a more fierce criticism of it than the one that President Torra himself did very recently in a puddle, which he is so fond of, as long as he was president as he is now no longer. In this plywood, Mr. Torra said that he considered one of the major comforts of his political trajectory to have been able to block the General Presuppositions of the State. Well, in the first term, it means that it believes a poor opinion of what its political trajectory has been, and of the contributions that it and its government may have made to the country as a whole, if that is one of the major sooliments. And, according to the term, he notes, in any case, the weakness of his arrival, because today the General Presuppositions of the State have approved that he is boasting of having blocked with the vote of eleven different parties and, among them, the affirmative vote of 75_percent of the deputies representing Catalonia. A few assumptions – I am thinking because I think it will contrast strongly with the rest of what we can say – that contain parties that involve an increase of more than 400_per_cent for housing, of 150_per_cent for public health, of 70_per_cent for education, of 70_per_cent for social services, also of 70_per_cent for scholarships, of 60_per_cent for fighting against child poverty or of 46_per_cent for dependence, to give some examples. Well, anyway, I'd say, Mr. Torra, that this was the main comfort of your political project, and the inquiry might end here, because it's hardly possible to make a harsher criticism. But in any case, we thought Mr. Torra was wrong. Mr. Torra was mistaken because his main solitaire during the legislature, which is not worthy of him, is having passed a motion of censure. This is the main political success of the government that presides over Mr. Torra. In fact, what I am listening to is to quote that well-known Cervantes shambles, in a sonnet with a shambles that made fortune, that ended with that verse of the "mirror of shambles, gone and there was nothing. Actually, this is the arrival that Mr. Torra leaves us. But, unfortunately, from the point of view of the management – in this first intervention I would like to talk about a little more politics than politics, I will try to do so in the second intervention; I also say this in order to straighten out the debate that we need to have – they say that we need to assess those responsible for what they let go, right? which is, therefore, the situation in which the country is left. The country doesn't like the abstract concept, huh? , not as the concept in which emotions are sublime, especially the nationalist forces, but the tangible, material, concrete country. So, in the last two years, the independent governments have spread the public investment in education in more than 700 million euros, leaving it at the lowest levels in Europe, at 2.8_percent of GDP, up to 6_percent that sets the same law of education in Catalonia. Catalonia is from the European regions with the most school segregation and the fourth autonomous community of the State where the level of family income most conditions the academic performance of the student. Catalonia has early school drop-out taxes per sopra de la mitjana spanyola i Europe, which we almost duplicate. The Government of the Government has for the past eight years abandoned the financing of municipal schools, or at least abandoned them for the past eight years. The current government is not able to activate a powerful model of professional training for the country, and there are no public places in middle and higher grades. For what it does to Catalan universities, it has gone from €1,000_million in public funding in 2010 by the Generality to €800_million in 2020. And, at the same time, we have spent eight years with the highest taxes in Spain. In the local world, while some of the debt imports that the Generality had contracted have been satisfied, this debt with the joints has not yet been fully satisfied. To the industry there were 165_million euros in the year 2010, to industrial policies, and now only 50_million euros. For the first time since the inn left by the social services, Catalonia is at the bottom of the middle-class inversion per inhabitant compared to the middle-class in Spain. In which we carry from 2020 Catalonia counts with 6,300 less beneficiaries of the Law of Dependence of those who had the month of generation, a relay only exceeded for the Community of Madrid. His government has taken us to the vaggo de cua in the social investment in Spain, it is the autonomous community that least invests in health, education, and social services between 2009 and 2019. Catalonia is the autonomous community that devotes less investment per inhabitant to social policies, even if they do not contemplate the autonomous communities of foral rule. For those who defend that the financial situation of the Government of Catalonia, the deficit or the debt, the social reversal is lax, there are communities with major public debt, such as Valencia, Murcia or Castella - the Manxa, or in situations of structural financing deficit, such as Valencia, which have opted for other public policies, for this reason they mention the General Presuppositions of the State, and they are obtaining other results in all these matters. They invest in Catalonia 588 euros less per inhabitant in social policies than they invested in 2009, 4,124_million euros less. People who have had to wait a couple of years to access a residential place for people with intellectual disabilities – this is not in absolute consumable. What about the management of guaranteed citizenship income, which has forced various legal changes. In the field of culture, 2010 devoted 0.85_percent of the Generality's presupposition; 2020, 0.61_percent. Mirin, in habitatge, for example, 2010, « protection dwellings that have ended, 6,753; 2019, 945. In 2010, « official protection dwellings started, 7,602, and there are 1,884 in 2019. I'm sure we've heard the counselor tell us that there have been policies that use aunty and retraction. But I have to say one thing: the crowd and retraction may be able to mobilize more quickly housing units – floors – but it is more important. If one takes into account the price of building each official protection housing module, let's say from scratch, and the price of getting it by means of tanteig and retraction, then it's more to do so with tanteig and retraction. So, with the same money, and thinking about the medium and long term, it's worth continuing to insist on building policy, too, huh? In the field of cooperation, we are far more than the target of 0.7_per_cent for development aid than in the year 2010. If we look at it from the point of view of the same plan of government, several of these indicators already tell us that the plan of government has not been completed. It is not that it has not been partially completed, but that, to a good extent, an important degree of failure of the government plan... I will not be with this, because it has also been objected to by other motions, by other questions, but I will certainly point out the question you have to deal with the standard plate – the standard plate here, in principle, is not a matter of money. There are also many incompliments of the standard plan. From the outset, he said that his capacity for legislative innovation has been the lowest of the legislatures we carry from the restoration of Parliament. The government has been able to present only eight bills to the chamber. They are, in change, twenty-three laws that the Government has been unable to present to Parliament, according to its own standard, among them the democratic memory, the energy transition, other relations with the climate change, the Catalonian police system, the law of science, the law of sport, the law of territory, the law of personal autonomy, the law of association, the law of energy, the law of the mountains... So until the twenty-three that I have expressed to it. Nor have they been able to deploy laws that have already been approved. There was a lack of regulatory development of some that needed it for its implementation and there was a lack of decrees that served, or should be served, to deploy existing laws. Then another mention respects the legislative question. It's true, you've brought here more than forty decrees dictated by him during the pandemic. From these, it is worth noting that there was one – and one – of this long quarantine, which also had previous decrees during the pandemic, it is to say, that from the point of view of the quality of regulatory production, it does not seem the best. And, the truth, from the point of view of the communication – and I will have to leave here and I will have to wait on the second return – this government has characterized itself by an erratic communication, full of polemics and some surprising answers, and also full of speculations and globes probe into two themes, at least, which seem especially sensitive to us: from the outset, the measures to combat the pandemic, where we do not believe that it will be possible to speculate as it has been speculated, and also the measures around our own electoral summons, where we ask, if you please, that it is gone away from speculating, and we hope that the meeting of tomorrow can serve to get everyone out with a consensus as wide as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.170.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.171.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, before entering the content of your inquiry, would like to begin by talking about an assertion made this morning by your parliamentary group, which is very difficult because it lacks the truth. This morning, from his group, it was said that the Government of the Generality is the least transparent of history, and you know that this is not true. But, on top of that, this statement comes from the Socialists' Group... Let's leave him two things. Two things, beginning, first, for which you, therefore, are now referred in your last words of this first intervention, which refers to the management of the pandemic. Because, look, while the Government of Catalonia appears in this Parliament at every plenary session for such a re-account about the management that we are due in term, the Spanish Government, the Spanish Government of PSOE-We can appear in the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies to account for the management of the pandemic every two_months, and that's why it was forced in the Congress of Deputies. And I would say more: the transparency of the Government of Catalonia is absolute with parliamentary groups. But, in the same way, the transparency of the Government of Catalonia is absolute with the economic and social sectors of our country, and the transparency of the Government of Catalonia is also absolute with the citizenry. And once I said that, I'll also make an assertion that I suppose it won't surprise you. Mr. Pedret, I totally disagree with the balance you've made of government action, obviously. Neither of his simplistic analysis looking for four easy headlines, nor of his paying for the details that were to be hard to finish in the year 2010, you know perfectly well why, as a result, among other things, of a Government of the Spanish State presided over by Mr Zapatero – therefore, Socialist Government – he denied until it was impossible to continue to deny that galloping crisis that lay in our country – and, of course, details that at that time were hard to finish and that government has reversed. This government is a government with a determined, defined and expansive political action that puts people, every citizen and citizen of Catalonia, at the centre of its policies. It is a government with a realistic political action, it is a government that works in the territory, it is a government that works in the light of the uniqueities of our country, that works in dialogue, that works in cooperation with the rest of the administration, with entities, with civil society and with social agents. This government is a government with a political action that has made it possible for the main economic and quality of life indicators at the end of 2019 to be positive. The Catalan economy continued to link years of sustained GDP growth with the good export and foreign investment market, among other good indicators. But at this point, you will agree, like the rest of the world, that the Covid pandemic has reached us. And here in Catalonia, like the rest of the countries, this health emergency has also resulted in an economic and social crisis of a magnitude still, I think, not quite calibrated. And, therefore, in this 2020 the deixi'mdir government action that is transformed to manage a new presence and to build the foundations of a new future. In any case, the management of the Covid, both at the health level and at the economic and social level, yesterday we discussed it ourselves in the appearance, so to balance it... So, if I may, I will not go into the detail because yesterday, in this Parliament, both the vice president and I will give account. I will take the opportunity to take a closer look, and I will not focus solely on managing this pandemic, but on everything that has meant government action in this legislature. As you know, we have framed this government action of this legislature in four great axes. And I will allow myself, therefore, to make this balance of all and each of them. For what it does to you, it relates to a cohesive country with rights and opportunities for everyone, allows you to brush communities in education, in health, in the social and cultural spheres. With regard to education, the Pact against School Segregation has been approved or progressed in the implementation of the inclusive education decree. The Digital Education Plan 2020-2025 has been approved, with an extraordinary budget of almost €185 million for the fight against the digital bretxa, which is one of the priorities that this pandemic management has put forward as a manifesto. In health we have strengthened and are strengthening the primary care system, we have increased the number of professionals and we have continued to work to expand the infrastructure. Moreover, I want to highlight – because it is just to do so – the great personal and economic effort to fight the Covid-19. And I can't talk about this effort without making a reassessment of all the staff in our country's welfare network. For what it does in the social sphere, we have approved the Interdepartmental Family Support Plan or the Catalan Strategy for the collection and inclusion of children and young migrants alone. I would also like to highlight the establishment of the National Pact Table for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities or the work of the Strategic Social Services Platform or the improvement of access to housing for the most vulnerable. As far as cultural policy is concerned, we have achieved a more social, accessible and sustainable cultural policy, with the territory, its uniqueities and the municipal and supra-municipal administrations. We enter the second eix, which speaks of the economy ahead, responsible and sustainable for a new product model and fair taxation. And in this way, let's say that the assumption of employment policies has increased and we have fully deployed the guaranteed income of citizenship. Moreover, we have approved the Generality's assumptions for 2020 take as reference the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda. Now, certainly, and in view of the situation caused by the pandemic, we are working to reorient the assumptions to face this health, economic and social crisis, and in this sense, and for this reason, we have created the commission for the social and economic recovery of the country, Korea. In addition, the Committee Alderman Catalonia - Next Generation has also been created, designed to select projects to opt for European foundations. And here I ask myself: will your Spanish government with Catalonia be fair to ensure that the proportional share of the GDP of these projects remain in Catalonia? Let me tell him I doubt it, because we've known each other for many years. Follow me. Government action in the field of knowledge and innovation focused on approving the National Knowledge Society Pact and the draft law on science and emerging business law, technology and disruption. And also in this economic area, many other activities in the field of business and product weaving, tourism or agri-food policies. Let's talk about the other axis, the democraticly strengthened society, one would highlight, precisely, the approval of the Open Data Strategy of the Government of Catalonia, a referent of good international recognition practice. Moreover, we have promoted a digital agenda of the country, highlighting the arrival of optical fiber to all the reasons of our country, to all the capitals of the region of Catalonia, and the creation of the Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia, in addition to the approval of the 5G Strategy or the Barcelona Digital Talent initiative. And, in the area of equality between men and women, we have approved the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2020-2022. Or, in the field of justice, to emphasize that there has been an increase in telematics services, the system of complaints has been generalised that allows the courts to establish video communications from the viewing rooms and that alternative measures and methods have been promoted in the resolution of conflicts. For what it does in the field of security and emergencies, new and better jobs and equipment conditions of public servants in the field of security in our country. And, in this sense, I want to put in full agreement with the Bombers after more than two years of claim, now that I see Councilman Buch here. And for what it refers to an open Catalonia, so yes. We also work for the projection of Catalonia to the world, and we do so from the twelve delegations of the Government abroad, which in their day were reopened because they had been closed for 155, to more than the nine that have been created. And, therefore, in these moments, through the fifteen delegations of the Government abroad, as are also the forty offices of Action Rau del mondial, I would like to highlight the data of the foreign investment to Catalonia the year 2019: 365_million euros, 5,757 jobs in a total of eighty-four coordinated projects for the offices of Action al mondial. I'm done with this intervention. This government, Mr Pedret, from the very first moment, works for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans in our country, as well as the fiscal deficit, which continues to be unsustainable, and also repression. Social progress, social cohesion, wealth creation are and have been the backbones of our government action.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.172.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, Congressman Pedret has a turn again. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.173.0	Counsel, deputies and deputies, said you were doing a simplistic analysis. Okay. I've given him indicators, and some of the hundreds of indicators there could be for public policy evaluation. You have returned to us in line with the one with which Mr. Rajoy lit us one day when he said that Catalans do things. Yes, man, of course, Catalans do things, and the Government of the Catalonian Government also does things. But I gave him some indicators. Some indicators of how the country is, especially on social issues, yes, that are the most concerned with us, but also industrial, also strategic, that we think they endorse our data to say that we are remarkably worse. And we are also in terms of other autonomy that have financing problems similar to that of Catalonia. Therefore, the data contradicts it, doubtful sense, at least those that I have given it. Another thing is that you deny them; if you deny them, you tell me, but they are all data from official sources. Look, you ended up with the pandemic and I also wanted to make some reference to it, because you made a reference to the issue of the alleged lack of transparency. Look, I don't know, I don't have these indicators, I should ask them, about... I wouldn't be able to tell them if they're the least transparent government I've had in Catalonia since 1980. But there was a lack of transparency with regard to the funds transferred to the Generality, the concrete fate of the funds transferred to the Generality for the pandemic... there was no lack of transparency in this. That it's not entirely clear what happened to Railroad for the hiring of trackers? I'm telling you, too. I don't care, I don't need it, I don't... They haven't done much to Parliament, either, in this matter. 061, to begin with, which was to be free during the pandemic, continued to pay during the pandemic. Fi. In relation to the pandemic, I will try to do the most thoughtful criticism, the more I can do it, that is, in the least punchy way. And the least I can say is that among the cessations that were made on September 3rd, by the President of the Government of Catalonia, three are left that were much more urgent, much more necessary to do, that are the correspondents to the Departments of Education, Health and Work and Social Affairs. These were cessations that had been felt, for the management that had been done, of the pandemic. But in any case, like you, what... I had one of the things I thought I was going to say is that we were convinced that now you – you – would not like to say, as you did in April 2020, that if the Government of the Generality had taken care of the management of the coronavirus, there wouldn't have been so many dead or so many infected, and probably could have been controlled in another way, this pandemic, which is a very thick statement. And after you've managed the pandemic on a good tram, I think it's a statement that you'd do well to say good-bye to. But I can't say, that I'm convinced that I wouldn't, because yesterday we heard him say, from this Faristol, refer to the Government of Spain as the second virus that Catalans and Catalans are going to face. Deu-n'hi-do. From the outset, for the dehumanization of the political adversary. And god-in-law, if we take into account what was the management of the Catalonian Pandemic Government. And you tell us to work for the seven million thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand. It's not true – it's not true. You have been a government that has asked only its voters and those who understand how their potential voters. These later ones, by the way, always with a condescending and evangelizing tone, to expand the base, etcetera. His political formation in concrete terms is not so much. Another political formation is that which has this duty to expand the base and with this, let's say, permanent homily. And when we don't, then you see the invective, huh? , because they move from homily to no-problem invective. They also respected what they were partners and accompanied them until two minutes ago. These, obviously, those who are punished in the most furious way. Look, we have one of the worst governments that's happened to the Generalitat de Catalunya since the Generalitat's restoration, and all the indicators believe that. And, moreover, politically, we have a government that only questions a half of the Catalans, that has practiced a policy, that began in 2010, effectively, with the details of its predecessors, of a political formation that they now simulated to ignore everything..., but with the details of its predecessors, in 2010, from the hands of the People's Party, and it has continued with the association between the postconvergent world and the Republican Left. And now they're trying to make us believe that the Republican Left – I'm not telling you, Mrs. Budó..., that a reversal of the papers could have a very different effect, with the wrong foot – let me say so, in colloquial terms – that we're now having a keyboard like the Government of the General when the Republican Left cap is. And that's exactly the continuity of those policies that began in 2010, and that you and your predecessors decided not to reverse, because in other autonomous communities the product details of the 2008 crisis have been reversed. I'm not here. And it is a political decision – a political decision – to abandon the popular and working classes of this country and the public services. It's a political decision.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.174.0	Congressman, thank you. To make your reply, you have the word "adviser" another time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.175.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, really, therefore, we visualize two very different realities. I can assure you that this government works and governs for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans, and that's it. This is our compromise, and it's been since day one. Miri, to me it does the effect, therefore, that it is like an accompaniment of displeasure that you, which precisely preside over the Government of the Spanish State, and which, moreover, have presided over different governments of the Spanish State also previously, come to us to talk about shortcomings, come to us to talk about details, come to us to talk about lack of finance, etc. Why, look, if we go into detail, right? So, what's the point..., look, why don't you guys ever talk about the state's lack of reversal in Catalonia? I never heard him talk about it. Why don't they talk about the repeated incompliments of the State with Catalonia? , of the debt of the third additional provision, that there is a payment commitment of 19, 20 and 21? Why don't they talk about it? Why don't they talk about it, huh? Why don't they talk about the repression that the powers of the State exert on citizens and citizens of our country? Why don't you talk about the details your government has had to finish in employment policies? Why don't you talk about it? And this directly affects the people of Catalonia. Or why don't you say that your government has decided to push the share of local people, at a time when local people need more support than ever before on the part of governments? Or why don't you say that your government isn't paying for the ERTOS that have been tough since August 12th? Why don't you talk about it, huh? Why don't you turn me in? Or why isn't he talking about not financing himself as close to the Law of Dependency? That the whole government of Catalonia is paying for it, when there's a commitment from the student government Zapatero, and it's financing the government of Catalonia? Why don't you talk about it, huh? Why doesn't he say that the 2018 and 2019 exercises, in order not to go any further, the Spanish government has ceased to execute one-third of the supposed investment in Catalonia? But you know what? That they've got us used to all this. Why don't you go over here and talk about the assumptions, you've approved some assumptions. Miri, you know what? So good. So good, for once, is what these assumptions say. Allow me, therefore, to remain skeptical. And anyway, if you want, we'll talk about it again one day making a coffee, the 31st of this year, and we'll see who the reality was. Because the paper endures everything, but then, when it's time for the truth, when it's time to execute the assumptions, I say it now, Mr Pedret, in Catalonia they never take us into account. And it never ended up executing that forecast for Catalonia. But I told you, we're used to it. It has become a bad habit, that of the Spanish governments, of all the Spanish governments, of any color; also, I'm not sure, of the most progressive government of history, because we've seen it also in this 2020. Why don't they talk about all the pending debts of the Spanish State you have with Catalonia? The list is very long and you know them perfectly. But it turns out they come here to this Parliament and ask the Government of Catalonia everything that the Spanish Government doesn't do. They ask the Catalan government to do everything that the Spanish government doesn't do. Miri, this morning – I return again to the motions of this morning – his group gave to the Ciutadans Group, concretely, that what they ask the Government of Catalonia do not ask there where you govern, the gods. It's more like, they say, it's the same thing all the time. I say the same thing, Mr. Pedret: you have to say the same thing all the time. Because maybe, to give a council, you should first apply it to yourself. Because I repeat it: I do not feel that you ever ask the Government of the Spanish State for a measure of social protection or economics as you ask the Catalan Government. The Spanish government, you know, has the resources and has the skills. Could you tell us, for example, what direct liquidity measures the Government of the Spanish State has taken in the management of this crisis? I'll take it from there, not one. What has done is to take advantage of the crisis to centrifuge responsibilities without accompanying those responsibilities for the necessary economic measures, as other states such as France or Germany have done. But unfortunately, here in Catalonia, that's never the case. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we really have one thing clear, and this crisis has shown us more than ever: Catalonia will only get married, Catalonia will only be possible, with independence. Because while we have the dependence of the Government of the Spanish State, this reality, all these quality public policies that you also ask for, will not be possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.176.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the government's two-and-a-half-year inaction balance]] [[300-00340/12]] We now turn to the agenda item, which is the question to the Government about the two-year and half inaction balance of the Government, of the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans. In order to expose this question, the honourable Member, Ms Lorena Roldán, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.177.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Well, one more year, and given the lack of self-criticism already common in this government, we are also asking a little bit to talk about this exciting inaction of the whole legislature, which is coming to an end, and, above all, to see a little the perspective that remains for the Catalans until the end of the legislature and in the period until we can start what I hope is a new stage in Catalonia, for the good of all. Because, look, believe me that, besides, I'm sorry to tell you what I'm going to tell you, but it's just that you haven't kept a single promise. They have not kept a single promise; now, yes, the threats have fulfilled absolutely all of them, especially the first one made by Mr. Torra when he told us that he had not come here to manage an autonomous community. And, of course, he did. Well, if he did, Mr. Torra. For example, you in this entire legislature have been unable to reduce university fees, but by the art of magic you have pulled the Catalan NASA out of the sleeve, huh? The separatist NASA, that I... really, that I do recognize, Mrs. Budó, that we didn't see it coming; other majaderias of yours, yes, but the Catalan NASA... that we didn't see it coming! [[Some applause.]] That's where we were surprised. Of course, I don't know whether you want to be Denmark of the Mediterranean, southern Switzerland or Norway of the Pyrenees have already run out of references and now you have to be the Catalans of Mars. I don't know, Mrs. Budó, and I really do take it a little bit funny, because if I take it seriously, it's to worry about myself, and a lot. Make sure you look at it, because I really tell you that Catalans and citizens here on this earth are very clear what they are and what they want to remain: Catalans, Spanish and Europeans. Nor have you created, for example, in the entire legislature, that extraordinary fund which you were talking about for the municipalities that directly manage social aid. Nor have they settled debts with municipalities for the financing of day-care centres. But, in return, the Catalans have new embassies. You have opened three separatist embassies in the midst of the pandemic, in Japan, Senegal and Australia, which will already tell me the need we now had to have these three embassies, I insist, at a time when money has to go to essential services. Do you remember, for example, the development of the Children's Act or the updating of the school-dining decree? Nothing, zero, they didn't do anything there either. But, of course, what is that compared to having a strong TV3? That you have injected 15_million_and_half_of_euros from the Covid fight fund for TV3. Nor have you, for example, deployed countless laws that have pending, some of them very important. Mr. Torra said that he was going to unfailingly deploy the law to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people. Well, they didn't either. They've had the whole legislature, but no. And I could go on with the list of unfulfilled promises, because it's long, Counselor. You also told us that you were going to reduce waiting lists, but no; you were going to draw up an infrastructure and public transport plan, neither have you, and so on. And look, as I tell you, the list of unfulfilled promises is long. Now, the list of excuses is short, very short. It's always the fault of others, it's always the fault of Spain, and, in fact, you just proved it in the previous turn, of the previous interpellation. It's never your fault, it's always someone else's. But, hey, let's not be worried either, because we are now very lucky that we have Republican Left negotiating the budgets, that negotiating capacity that Republican Left has with the government of Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias. And I want to analyze exactly what Esquerra Republicana has asked to try to compensate Catalans for so many unfulfilled promises. You have asked that the Spanish be eliminated as a vehicle language in the Catalan classrooms, that the crime of sedition be reformed, in case you give them the threat of 'we will do it again, and that the taxes on the people of Madrid be increased. Really, Mrs. Budó, that's what I think of this as a joke. The great negotiating capacity that Esquerra Republicana has and that is always, always, always thinking, of course, in the interests of all Catalans. We are winning, come on, with these amendments that Esquerra is presenting, a barbarity. I, really, when I was thinking about this interpellation and we were preparing the interpellation, I was thinking a little bit of a phrase, a title that could summarize these more than two years of government. And the title, no doubt, is that it cannot be other than that of a lost legislature – a lost legislature. And they have other titles that already have them quite trilled; we talk about the day of the marmot, trapped in time... Those are already spent, because you have been buried Catalonia in a loop for ten years. And, look, after the title, then, comes the story, and yours, of course, has a lot of black chapters, too many. Let's imagine for a moment – I ask you to make this effort, and also the people who are at home following us – what a Catalonia without a process would be like, what it would be like. Well look, for example, from good to good, we would have 5,776 companies that were forced to leave since 2017; we would have them here in Catalonia. And not only these five thousand that you expelled, no, is that we would have more, if we were able, as has traditionally been Catalonia, to attract talent and investment, instead of scaring anyone who wants to bet on this autonomous community. Because you give them legal insecurity, with your sectarianism, with the confrontation, with those street sabotages, some of them, even urged by Members who sit here in this Chamber. I want to remind Mr. Sabrià, of the Republican Left, calling to occupy the airport. But what kind of leaders are you, what irresponsibility so great, how much wealth and how much employment has been lost in Catalonia with this separatist delusion of yours. Not to mention, for example, that with you Catalonia has gone from being the locomotive of Spain to entering a drift towards decadence. We are talking about gross domestic product, unemployment figures, vehicle registration, business start-ups, social security affiliations or transfers of head offices. All these indicators, Mrs. Budó, we dominated them, we already had them. And it turns out that you have carried them with your process, with your illegal referendums, with the CDRs, with your laws of disconnection, I insist, which generate legal insecurity, which cause companies to lose confidence in our institutions. See, according to data from the Ministry of Industry, in 2018 Madrid captured 39,746_million in foreign investments. Meanwhile, this investment in Catalonia fell to 12_per_cent, and our state share fell, eye, from 31_per_cent to 6_per_cent, Mrs. Budó – from 31 to 6. In just two years, the fateful October One caused a fall in foreign investment of 17_per_cent. And it also achieved one thing that seemed unthinkable, that is that tourism also lost strength in our region. Of course, who was going to expect it. Who was to expect it, with Catalonia immersed in a unilateral secession that you carried at your own risk, overstepping the rights of all Catalans. Who would have thought that? Well, it was in the drawer, Mrs. Budo, that this was going to happen. Not to mention also, I insist, and I want to remember that..., many things have happened since then, we have had a pandemic that has caused us to forget a little bit everything, but I think we should also talk about the riots that we live in Catalonia, street riots that literally set fire to our streets. Cruises had to be diverted, flights, overnight stays were cancelled and, directly, there were countries that even recommended not to travel to Catalonia. The United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Portugal warned of the riots that took place here in Catalonia to their citizens. How will that bring anything good to Catalonia, Mrs. Budó? Look, the trade also forced to close day yes day also, because you are dedicated to cutting streets, barricading, setting up demonstrations and, if not, asking the neighbors and merchants of the Meridiana, that you have them quite tired, and I am not surprised. Do you imagine, for example, that social spending items would not have dropped by 8_per_cent in Catalonia during the process, while Spain's average was up by 14_per_cent? It's just that it's not the rest of Spain's fault. The responsibility is yours. Do you imagine, for example, that we could join forces and face the challenges we face as a society, especially at a time like this, rather than putting ourselves here to seek confrontation and to seek conflict? It just seems like a fiction, this I'm telling you, but it really isn't. It's not. What happens is that here, with you at the head of the government, it is unthinkable – unthinkable. I mean, how can it be that we dedicate public money to entities like Platform for Language, which is dedicated to spying on children in recreation? How can it be? Lords of the Socialist Party, how do you include in the law Celaá an amendment that comes directly from this entity, which is dedicated to spying on children in school recesses? It's just that it's an aberration, it's an aberration, what you're doing. And, look, with all this panorama I've painted for you, Mrs. Budó, the pandemic has arrived. The pandemic came and what was the first reaction of the process to this unprecedented crisis? Calling Unity and Responsibility? No, no, Again call for confrontation, seek out that imaginary enemy again. You yourself, Mrs. Budó, attacked Spain and came to say that in an independent Catalonia there would have been fewer deaths. It's just that it's tremendous, this phrase, Mrs. Budó, it's tremendous. And the problem is that you say she's convinced. It's just, honestly, we're not going anywhere. Look, Mr. Torra spent the whole first wave kicking because he had no skills and then, when you regained those skills, you showed that you don't know what to do with them. And that's how we're looking at these last few days. Today they make an announcement, at 24 hours we rectify it, we say that we are going to give some help, the help runs out, the web collapses. That is not the way to be! This pandemic has revealed how bad managers you are, how bad managers. You have even come to reject field hospitals simply because they were mounted by the UME. It's a real irresponsibility – a real irresponsibility. So we'll see, we'll see. We have tried by all means to reach out to you, but you, as always, have preferred to be in confrontation and to blame others. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has now the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.179.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., Mrs Roldán, a new inquiry from your group, and which responds to one of your mantras; in this case, the inaction of government. Look, the first one I'd like to ask is, do you know what it means to rule? So, miri, "government means making decisions, often difficult and complex, and even more difficult to manage a pandemic. It is complex for this government and for all the governments of the world at this time. But, of course, you're very likely, so you don't know that. I suppose, Mrs. Roldán, that you know the phrase that there is no deaf worse than the one that you don't want to hear, and the truth is that, after feeling your intervention, I thought that, really, your group suffer from this kind of deafness, the one that hurt those who don't want to listen. Only a minute ago I took stock of the government action in response to the Socialist Group's inquiry into the government action balance. But allow me to respond before you enter the detail to what I think you are talking about, from your group, from the disenfranchisement, from what the Catalan NASA is saying. I don't know if they know that the new economy of space is a new economic sector of high added value– of high added value–, generating opportunities and economic growth. We're talking 1,200 jobs, we're talking more than 280_million euros in billing. High value economy added. And I don't know if you know, but Madrid and Galicia are also carrying out similar projects. I'm saying it's because of his acquaintance. Anyway, I'll take back what I gave him. With what we have already been explaining, we have been talking, you, with whom I feel rain. But I invite you to recover my previous intervention precisely, because, in respect of the rest of the Members and Members, obviously, I will not repeat exactly everything I said to my previous question. But I will... expand the donated information. Therefore, I repeat: of the four axes that the Government has marked in this mandate, on which it talks about the country cohesive in rights and opportunities for everyone, to note that, for the education, in band of plans that I have mentioned previously, it has also set itself in operation – and I think it is important to remember it – a governing committee of the system of training and professional qualification for the integration of the initial, continuous and occupational FP, and to promote a new FP very important for our country. Or in salutation, detail some of the infrastructures in which we have continued to work, such as the new smart ICU of the Vall d'Hebron, or the new hospital of Viladecans. And since we are in the field of salvation, only a parenthesis: as before Mr Pedret, the measures relating to the impact of the Covid..., we are taking a balance between plenary and plenary sessions. I'm moving on to the social sphere. In my previous question I pointed out different plans, different actions, in the land of housing and the Table of the National Pact for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And I would like to add here also the Pla national de l'associationisme and volunteering. And if we're talking about the sphere of culture – which is certainly an area that you don't even talk about in May – the government has allocated EUR 27_million to secure fifty-seven projects in large cultural infrastructures that were planned in three Feder cultural calls, and that had been suspended to address the health issue. And I'm continuing to expand the information in government action for what it does to the second eix, which is that of the economy ahead, responsible and sustainable. And if he mentions employment policies, governance in the field of knowledge and innovation, or measures that conform to an economic model based on balance and sustainability, in the field of enterprise and product fabric, he allows'remember that approval has been given to the Advance draft law facilitating economic activity, which will benefit 564,000 enterprises in our country. Or the law to create areas of urban economic promotion. Moreover, they have and maintain approved or deployed support plans, such as the National Pact for Industry, of which 92.5 per cent of the first three-year period has been implemented. The Tourism Marketing Board and the Strategic Tourism Board have also been drawn up, plans to be reorientated in the light of the new circumstances, more than counting with all the necessary help and measures from the Covid-19, which suffers from this sector. Or if we are talking, for example, about energy, the processing of the Law of Energy Transition of Catalonia has begun, and, among others, measures have been promoted to boost photovoltaic self-consumption or to promote electric mobility. If we are talking about a democratic, free and fair society, talk about the Open Data Strategy or the digital agenda of the country, the Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia, the 5G Strategy, the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies, the area of justice and the area of security and emergence. Now I would also like to expand with two new areas in this area: our civil and political rights, and modern administration adapted to the new needs. Because, Mrs Roldán, in our country we've been repressing for a long time. In our country we have long lived a retreat from our civil and political rights. In our country we have long been restricted by freedom of expression, disabling, and even disabling, the President of the Generality. And the result is that we live under the threat of human rights and freedoms. And this democratic setback affects all of us without exception. And, therefore, in the field of citizenship and human rights, we need to have the first Pla de Drets Humanes de Catalunya, since each of the individual rights is sufficient for the sovereignty of the joint venture of the Catalan society. And to finish this third line, we are also talking about a modern administration adapted to the new needs. This is why we have approved an offer of public employment of more than fifteen thousand places, with the aim of increasing the employability of the Generalitat, or as the call for more than 6,600 public places addressed primarily to basic services. We talk about more than five thousand places of teachers, 820 squadron moves or 250 bombers, and enguany has approved a new partial offer of 1,421 new places, most of them addressed to essential services. Let's talk about an open Catalonia, because Catalonia has to be present in the world, and this is also one of the priorities of this government. And it is that with the crisis of the Covid-19, if one thing is absolutely justified, it is that one of the measures that this Government took, that was the twelve delegations of the Government abroad, that are to be reopened after the Spanish State closed them applying Article 155, and of the three new ones that we have created to Argentina, Mexico or Tunisia..., that have served in this pandemic to assist more than 2,850 citizens and citizens who found it to be one hundred_six different countries and who had difficulty returning to Catalonia. Clearly, I assume that at this point, you, Mrs. Roldán, as your companions and companions, will again suffer from a deep deafness, because they do not care to feel the truth, because here the only one that interests them is to talk or slander, even when they talk about government delegations abroad. And if not, I ask the 2,856 people who, thanks to delegations abroad, were able to return home when the pandemic broke out, or I ask, if not, the people who occupy the more than 5,700 jobs generated thanks to the foreign investments captured during the year 2019 from the Action Offices and the different projects available to the companies in order to respond to the challenges of globalisation. Mrs. Roldán, all this is action, government action, unlike inaction. Mrs Roldán, "government means planning, "government means making decisions, "government means managing, and that's what we're doing from the Government of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.180.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the immediate reply of the inquiry, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.181.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, you had so many, so many things to explain about your great government action, which has left you up to time, has left you up to time, ten_minutes that you had. It's just that you haven't been able to fill in ten_minutes, because you haven't done anything at all in these nearly three years of the legislature, and you've started me here to name a series of..., it seemed like this from the Teleshop announcement, as you always do. He has told me, for example, about the decree on vocational training, with which no one agrees, for example. You told me about the great work you're doing in culture. Are you aware that the most complete motion that has been tabled in this Parliament on culture has been tabled by my group, by citizens? Are you conscious, Mrs. Budo? [[Some applause.]] It's just that you report yourself a little before you get out here. You talked to me too, you were talking about the tourism plan. Listen, perhaps your strategy of constantly blaming the rest of the Spaniards for the evils that Catalonia has..., perhaps it has not just been a good strategy to invite the rest of the citizens of Spain to come here to know our land. I don't think you're calculating too well. If you yourself, when you are addressed in Spanish in a full, answer and say, and I will read it literally, literally... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, mantra no, in quotes I tell you, because it's your words, Mrs. Budó. I understand that you are ashamed and do not want me to remind you, but you said that greeting in Spanish, in Spanish, was « sad, worrying and segregating. What do you want from the rest of the citizens of Spain to come here to Catalonia and perhaps find yourself with you to answer this. Can't you see that, Mrs. Budo? That we're not going anywhere, that we're not going anywhere. You were also talking about the backsliding of rights in Catalonia. Look, here's where I'm going to give you the reason. Here we are experiencing a backlash of rights caused by you, caused by successive separatist governments. Separatist governments that, for example, prevent us from speaking in our mother tongue. That you want to ban the language spoken by the majority of Catalans, which is Spanish, in the classrooms, that this is a genuine aberration. Yeah, there's a backlash of rights. You are, for example, dedicated to fine those shops that label in Spanish. Yeah, there's a backlash of rights. You are also dedicated, for example, to harassing workers in your jobs because you serve in one of the official languages of Catalonia, which is Spanish, whether you like it or not, Mrs Budó. With you there has been a setback of rights and freedoms in Catalonia. Yeah, yeah, and they're always gonna find us there denouncing those abuses and working to keep them from happening again. He was also talking about the embassies and he was telling me..., he was talking about mantras, you told me. No, mantras no, it's just that we talked to him... it's just that this is a reality like a piano, all I've said to him here. Why does no one come here to show up, to give us the explanations of what those drops are doing? Why is there so much opacity around these embassies? You said they repatriated in the middle of the pandemic, I don't know how many Catalans. Bring here the data from those Catalans you repatriated. In any case, it would be the ministry, the Government of Spain, but not those embassies, which I already tell you about what they do, so they don't want to explain it. They do it with the money of all Catalans, that's the bad thing, because if they did it with the money in their pocket, nothing to object to, but no, they do it with the money of all Catalans. Money, I insist, that now more than ever, it has to stop at those essential services. And look, what I'm afraid of..., I was talking to you about this balance sheet of the legislature, but I also want to talk to you about the future, because I'm afraid you're going to follow in the same, and it's not because I'm guessing, is that the other day, that brand-new candidate you have now in Junts, Mrs Borràs, because she already unveiled the plan to us a few weeks ago, and told us that the most important thing was independence, and that we had to make all the decisions, including those on the management of the pandemic, aimed at this end. A few words that seem tremendous to me, which happens, which are not new either, because you have been saying for years that everything here has to be a priority..., that is, everything has to go beyond independence. The most important thing is always independence, Mr Torra also told us. Which, by the way, speaking of Mrs Borràs, of course I have to tell you that it is a very good record, Mrs Borràs. Look, his speeches have supremacist traces, he is a Spanish-speaking man, a signatory to the Koiné manifesto, and, moreover, he is already accused. I mean, I think she's the ideal candidate to succeed Pujol, Mas, Puigdemont and Mr. Torra. And look, don't be careless, because the usual procedure in Convergence has always been to rule first and then it's when they call them to the bench. But Mrs. Borràs says she can beat the record, because she can get to sit on the bench just before she gets to the position. I mean, don't be careless, you can advance them perfectly, Mrs Borràs. That is, if the gentlemen of Republican Left leave you, because of course you are now immersed in a tremendous fratricidal battle – tremendous. And what I think is happening to you, not in the spirit of psychoanalyzing you, is that you are already bored of yourselves. You're already bored of the usual canteen, the monotheme of the process. I was talking to them before the day of the marmot and, of course, it's that you're wrong, and we already know how it ends – how it ends. And that's why we're afraid that we can either have another government – I'm done, president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.182.0	Vagi ending, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.183.0	...processor with more of the same, i.e., nothing at all, or worse still, a tripartite Republican Left Party, Socialist Party and the commons. Now, that is, led this time by separatism. So let's hope none of this happens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.184.0	Vagi ending, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.185.0	I'm done. And we will have a new alternative on February 14th to go to the polls and choose a new Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.186.0	Finally, for the reply, the speaker of the Presidency has the new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.187.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Roldán, som at the end of the legislature. Certainly, a legislature that has been characterized by your group with a whole suite of mantras, isn't it? , they only want to repeat and repeat a whole series of mantras, or their hits: chiringuito, supremacismo, coupistas, paguita, salvedazo, chanchullos, engendros, fuido, fuguedo, proceso, day de la marmota. Some mantras that, I repeat, have become classics, the classics of the legislature, and that you keep repeating. But as much as I repeat them, as much as I repeat a lie, it doesn't turn into reality. To you, Mr de Ciutadans, Mrs Roldán, only those who are interested in his obsessions: the català, our own language, the one you speak of aberration, of angendro– angendro, do not say; angendro –; to close TV3 and the public communication media – another of his objectives and another of his obsessions–, or to avoid the international projection of Catalonia. And they come here to make an inquiry about the two-and-a-half years of government failure. Look, I'm sure we're at the end of the legislature, and maybe it's time you asked who your action was in this chamber. What have they done? What will they explain to their voters? What have they achieved during this legislature? Maybe here we could talk about inaction. « Inaction is not to say about the tax deficit of €16,000_million that Catalonia suffers. « Inaction is not to denounce that we have a system of autonomous financing unjustly with Catalonia and expired since the year 2014. "Inaction is not to say about the constant delays of the Mediterranean Corridor, and that makes our businesses and our ports lose competitiveness. "Inaction is nothing to say about the problems we have with the lack of investment on the part of the Government of the Spanish State – and let's not just say it ourselves, the Chamber of Commerce and Development of Work is also saying it. "Inaction, Mrs. Roldán, is not to say anything about the incompliments in the financing of the Law of Dependency. "Inaction is not about the structural infra-financing that the health system in Catalonia is suffering, and that the State should reverse. "Inaction is not to denounce the escape of the emerit king from the Spaniards. « Inaction is not to denounce that the Borbo tricked the companies to ask that marxin from Catalunya. « Inaction is not to admit or face the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. In short, Mrs Roldán – and I finish, and certainly, yes, I will have time – "inaction is all that you do with what the country needs and with what its people need. "Inaction is what your parliamentary group describes, why did your thirty-six deputies serve this Parliament, Mrs Roldán? So I'll tell you now what your thirty-six deputies have served, Mrs Roldán: nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.188.0	Thank you, Counselor. Yeah? Why ask me the word, Mrs. Roldán?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.189.0	Yes, Mr. President, for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.190.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.191.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.192.0	Tell me the contradiction first, anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.193.0	Yeah. The Councilwoman Budó said that we refer to Catalan as 'gendar'. And I want to tell you not to say that again, because what is an ingenuity is that you invent scientific terms like that of your own language, eh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.194.0	Mrs. Roldán, this is not a contradiction, and you know it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.195.0	And the Catalan... yes, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.196.0	No, no, Mrs. Roldán, this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.197.0	The Catalan is as much yours as ours.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.198.0	Mrs. Roldán...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.199.0	That you have a problem with languages doesn't mean...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.200.0	...you don't have the word, because that's not a contradiction. [[Greetings.]] Pass the... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Sierra! Mrs. Sierra, this is not a way to behave in the Ple. Mrs. Sierra! Senyora Sierra, the cry is in order. That's right. That's right, Mrs. Sierra. One thing is talking and the other is the attitude I was having. It's not the attitude I correspond to the Ple, Mrs. Sierra. I was listening to him from here. That's right. Keep going. Let us now proceed to the vote, as we shall see on the order of the day. Then we'll follow up with the interrogations and... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now, now I'm ringing the bell, yes. [[Long break. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Now they'll tell them; now they'll tell them, not pateixin, before they vote. Always. [[Long break.]] All right. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... [[Decree-Law No 45/2020 of 17 November on transitional and extraordinary authorisation to continue the provision of the technical inspection service for vehicles (continuation)]] [[203-00069/12]] Let us proceed to the votes, and we shall do so, first of all, by voting on the agenda item, which corresponds to the vote on the validation of Decree 45/2020 of 17 November, on transitional and extraordinary empowerment to continue the provision of the technical inspection service for vehicles. Before voting on this point, I am sure that today's ninety-three Members and Members have delegated their votes, that twenty Members and Members have joined the telematic vote and that twenty-two Members will vote face-to-face. We begin voting, and we vote, as we say, this Decree Law 45/2020. The vote begins. This decree has not been validated, since there have been 65 votes in favour– corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics–, 69 against, no abstention– 65 in favour, 69 against, no abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the energy transition and decarbonization of the Catalan economy (continuation)]] [[302-00265/12]] Let's move on to the next point, which is the 17th, which corresponds to the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the energy transition and decarbonization of the Catalan economy. They attend to the separate voting petitions, we vote, in the first place, the 1 bis point. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 36 against and 69 abstentions – which correspond to 49 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. Let's now vote point number two. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to four, with eight abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. It was approved by 122 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. We're voting point six now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 94 votes in favour – corresponding to 74 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against, 40 abstentions. We're voting point eight now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 94 votes in favour – corresponding to 74 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 36 against, 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 133 votes to one, with one abstention. We're voting point 11. The vote begins. It has been approved by 94 votes in favour – corresponding to 74 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 4 against, 36 abstentions. We're voting now for point 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting point 13 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 98 votes to 36 with 36 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into secondary and post-compulsory education (continuation)]] [[302-00266/12]] We now vote on item 18, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into secondary and post-compulsory education. Let's start by voting point number four. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting now on point 5.b. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes to two, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 5.c. The vote begins. It was approved by 132 votes in favour, against and 2 abstentions. We're voting 6th point now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 50 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics–, 19 abstentions. We're voting point seven now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 59 votes in favour, 75 against – corresponding to 55 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. We're voting for point 7.a now. The vote begins. It was approved by 113 votes in favour – corresponding to 93 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 6 against, 15 abstentions. We're voting now on point 7.b. The vote begins. It has been approved by 92 votes in favour – corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 42 against, no abstention. We're voting now on point 7.c. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 27 votes in favour, 107 against – corresponding to 87 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against. We're voting now on point 8.c. The vote begins. It has been approved by 98 votes in favour – corresponding to 78 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against, 36 abstentions. We're voting point nine now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 69 votes in favour, against, 65 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics. We're voting for the rest of the points of this young man now. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public communication media (continuation)]] [[302-00267/12]] Let's now vote on the new point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into public communication media. Let's vote, first of all, points 4 and 6. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 94, with no abstentions. We're voting 7 and 8 points now. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 94 against – corresponding to 74 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – with no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into responses to the health, economic and social crisis (continuation)]] [[302-00271/12]] We now vote on item 20, which is the motion following the question to the Government on responses to the health, economic and social crisis. Let's vote, first place, point number two. The vote begins. It was approved by 12 votes in favour, 4 against and 118 abstentions – corresponding to 98 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics. We're voting points 3 and 4. The vote begins. They have been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. We're voting for the fifth point now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 52 votes in favour, 82 against – correspondents to 62 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – no abstention. We're voting point six now. The vote begins. It was approved by 117 votes to 17, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point 10 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes in favour – correspondents to 74 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 4 against, 36 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into government policy in relation to the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[302-00268/12]] Let's now vote on the twenty-first point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into government policy in relation to the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. We shall proceed to the vote in accordance with the requests for separate votes. In the first place, we will vote a bloc votemels points 1, 2 i 7– 1, 2 i 7. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions – correspondents to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics. We're voting points 3, 5 and 8. The vote begins. They have been approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions – corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics. We now vote on points 4, 9, 10 and 11. The vote begins. They have been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. And now we're voting points 6, 13 and 14. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting for the dot now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 48 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – 21 abstentions. We're voting for the seven-point now. The vote begins. Approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the motion, which only corresponds to point 15, which is the only one who has not voted. So we vote on the 15th. The vote begins. It has been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the right to a second opportunity (continuation)]] [[302-00269/12]] We now vote on point 22, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the right to a second opportunity. We vote, first of all, on the letters to and b of the text. The vote begins. They have been approved by 98 votes in favour– corresponding to 78 delegates and face-to-face with more than 20 telematics–, 36 against, no abstentions– 98 against, 36 against, no abstentions. We're voting now on letter c. The vote begins. Approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the increase in mortality on the Spanish border (continuation)]] [[302-00270/12]] Let's move on to the twenty-three point, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the rise of mortality on the Spanish border. We vote in the first place on point 1.a. The vote begins. Approved unanimously: 69 votes in favour– corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics–, 57 against, 8 abstentions. We're voting point 1.b now. It has been, point 1.b, rejected by 62 votes in favour– corresponding to 42 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics–, 72 against, no abstention. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. Approved by 94 votes to 74 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics, 4 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. Approved by 77 votes in favour – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face –, 4 against, 53 abstentions. There are no more votes. Therefore, we follow the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on territorial equity in rural and urban areas]] [[300-00338/12]] We follow with the following questions. And, concretely, with the inquiry to the Government on territorial equity in rural and urban areas, an inquiry presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. In order to expose her, Mr. Marc Parés has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.201.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Well, territorial equity is a cross-cutting theme both for the multiple dimensions it embraces and for the different scales it produces and on which it can intervene. In fact, I think it will be the third time in this legislature that I am asking about territorial inequalities. I did it first to Councilwoman Jordan, then I did it to Councilwoman Budo, and today, therefore, I do it with you, with the will to focus the debate on more territorial policy elements and with some more concrete proposals and interventions in the areas of your advice. Well, in Catalonia we have a problem of inequality that speaks about the territory, and that takes shape with two dynamics, right? For one band, rural depopulation, and for the other, urban segregation. We have, first of all, an obvious regional inequality between metropolitan areas and the rural world, an inequality that before the pandemic was greatly aggravated by strong already depopulation and population-enveloping dynamics. Comarques like the Alt Urgell, the Alta Ribagorça, the Bages, the Lower Ebre, the Bergedà, the Cerdanya, the Conca de Barberà, the Garrigues, the Montsià, the Noguera, the two Pallars, the Priorat, the Ribera d'Ebre, the Ripollès, the Solsonès, the Upper Earth, the Urgell are commarques that carry a decade-long population loss, while Catalonia was gaining a population in this period. Most of these businesses, more so, are also businesses that have a lower level of productivity and family income available. Therefore, in other words, this empty Catalonia is also the impoverished Catalonia. But it is obvious that where social space segregation is most concentrated is in urban areas. In the most dense environments, we find the most intense geographical separation of social groups according to their socio-economic conditions. It is what we call urban segregation, and it is materialistic on a scale of bars, but it responds to dynamics of the metropolitan area. In order to respond to these dynamics of territorial inequalities, we believe that it is important to hear the structural elements that cause this phenomenon, and that they are obviously complex, huh? Differences in housing prices or urban quality mean that the most vulnerable social groups are concentrated in those territories, in those urban areas, at the lowest level and where the quality of life is lower, whereas the most benevolent groups tend to be able to decide where they want to live. And that ended up with another element, which is the motxilla that carries each and every one of them depending on where they live. And this one thinks that it should be the central axis of territorial policies, and that it should concentrate the logic of intervention both in the rural world and in the urban sphere. And here's a concept that I think is interesting, that's the concept, therefore, of "territorial opportunity structure, isn't it? , insofar as each territory, each barrier, each region, each ever offers a series of opportunities for vital development that are related to occupation, occupation that is or is not present in each territory; with the training possibilities of that territory; with the equipment; with the public services; with the connectivity of this territory, it is as digital as it is physical; with public transport, etc. Therefore, the repte believes that we should be like creating vital opportunities in an equitable way to the different territories. Or, in other words, how we build territories where people want to live and where people can live, because living there does not entail a deficit or a burden for the vital project of each. And this is where the key idea of the inquiry comes in, which is territorial equity. We also understand territorial equity as a guarantee of access to the same levels of income and public services regardless of where the country is located. I mean, your postal code doesn't determine your living conditions or your possible future horizons. And, in this sense, we believe that the objective of territorial equity policies should be to generate equality by approving or promoting dynamic sustainable territorial development. Therefore, it is not a matter of balancing the territory through a more or less homogeneous or uniform distribution of the population, economic activity or certain uses of the soil, but rather of guaranteeing access to the same living conditions, and doing so through the local, Community development of each of these territories, and therefore from its specificities. And you understand, don't you? In this sense, therefore, what it is to value the geographical diversity that we have in the country, and not to destroy it with large infrastructures such as the C-32 or with large speculative economic investments totally disconnected from the territorial realities, such as the Hard Rock project. Therefore, drink of the specificity of each territory and do not impose or destroy. I'm trying to put a little more thought into some more specific questions. The first has to do with the role that rural Catalonia plays and how it relates to urban areas, and that in the background it has to do with the need to overcome this dichotomy between two realities, which are actually fully interconnected. In fact, Barcelona will be the year of the world's capital of sustainable food, and we believe that this is a good initiative and a great opportunity to rethink camp-city relations in Catalonia in a context like today. Rural Catalonia, even if it is not Catalonia, has seen most of the people of Catalans and Catalans, but it is Catalonia that provides us with all the environmental and resource services, which produce food, which preserves our landscape diversity. It is the Catalonia of our camps, of our forests, of our sea. The one that holds much more CO2 than it does not produce, the one that produces much more energy than it does not consume, the one that houses the water resources of which the metropolitan areas are native. If we recognize ecosystem services, environmental and landscape services that provide rural areas across the country, then don't you think we should guarantee the financing of these territories precisely for the provision of these services? Counselor, in this sense, we would like to know how it would value, for example, the payment to maintain ecosystem support, regulation or cultural services that are recreated with some background that is nodreixi, for example, from environmental taxes or to contamination or tourist nights. The government has already done so, and is offering grants to projects for the maintenance of ecosystem and landscape services from the tourist tax. We think this could be a good line of work. And this brings me to another element that we found lacking in his mandate, which is landscape policies, which we have long believed to have been abandoned, and which, in our view, is clau, from a point of view of heritage, from a point of view of tourism, but also from a point of view of biodiversity management, which is certainly another of the great assignments to our home. For what makes more specifically to rural Catalonia, that of a population density less than three hundred inhabitants per hectare, the Catalonia of the small municipalities, but also that of the capitals of the region, which can act as nodes of centrality in these territories, we formulate a couple of questions. The first, on the paper of the middle-class cities. In the current context of the pandemic, we have the opportunity to fix people to the territory, because with the increase of the teletreball, with the re-evaluation of the less densed life styles we see as part of the population is reconverting its second residences in early extended rights of the metropolitan region of Barcelona. And I ask if you have any strategy of consolidation, of revitalization of these middle cities. But in rural Catalonia we also have another reality, which is that of micro-people, where there is a 1.2_per_cent of the population, but they manage 35_per_cent of the territory. I don't know if you know the proposal for Micropopulations: they make different proposals that affect their department, in fact, for example, in terms of urban planning, housing, and we also want to know if they're doing anything to respect it. And for what it does to urban segregation dynamics, as you know in 2004 this Parliament approved the Barrel Law, a law that invested €1,300_million in 141 barrels, but that stopped financing in its day, and that as a consequence of the 2008 crisis, and now with the pandemic crisis, what we see is that precisely these most vulnerable territories, these most vulnerable barrels, are the most affected by the consequences of the different crises. In this sense, the Barcelona City Council, therefore, set aside in 2016 a block plan, with 150_millions destined for seven barrels, a plan that has now been renewed for four years, putting, moreover, the focus on the dimension of environmental sustainability and climate change. But the problem of barrels, as you know, is not exclusively municipal and is not only produced on a scale of barrels, but it has to do with dynamics that are of metropolitan logic. And, therefore, we believe that it would be felt, therefore, to think of the intervention on the barrels from this metropolitan logic, coordinating the different assemblies and with the role of the Generality. And, in this sense, the question is whether you think you are involved in developing a new barrel policy that allows you to intervene not only at the metropolitan level, but also at the conjunct of urban and vile areas that also suffer these dynamics of urban segregation. Therefore, if you think of developing any policy in this sense to combat urban segregation, to combat the inequalities that are produced at the territorial level. On the second part of the intervention I will make some more proposals on how we understand that this dual territorial inequality between urban and rural areas, and specifically in urban areas, needs to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.202.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.203.0	Thank you, President. Member, I sincerely thank you for this inquiry. I understand that his group had questioned issues of territorial equity, both to the Councillor of the Presidency and to the Agriculture Council. I was missing, and, for that matter, empathy, huh? So, I thank him very much. The truth is that I also recognize you as a sincere concern of your group for all these issues of territorial cohesion, until you have a proposal for territorial equity law for the sustainable development of rural areas, so to speak, pending, right? As far as I know, therefore, the Bureau has already passed the procedure; it has been assigned to the Committee on Agriculture, and, therefore, in any case, if we have more Parliament before me, I would also like it if we could intervene with it from the Department of Territories, but we do not know whether at these times this proposal for law will follow its processing. But anyway, I know that I read it, I looked at it, there are many interesting issues and, in fact, we share part of the speech that you have made. If we specifically look at rural issues, which was part of his intervention – he also talked about urban issues – so, yes, indeed, this sustainable development of rural areas, this territorial equity of rural areas goes through many factors that depend partly on the Department of Land and Sustainability. They can talk about road connections, they can talk about public transport, therefore, about access to nuclei, of paths, of transport on demand. Also, obviously, you serve, both the provision of water supply, water purification, all that is waste management, with all an important effort that is made from the ACA and the Agency of Residus because the provision of these services is very adapted to this rural reality. Obviously, issues of urban legislation, in which we agree – and you point it out in your law proposal – that we need a more flexible urbanism, which differs from what applies in the most urban areas, in cities, metropolitan areas, from what can be applied in the most rural environments. And, therefore, we need a law of the territory – which we have already liked to have arrived in this legislature – that is, in short, more flexible. But you're also afraid of housing, for example, aren't you? Habitat policies have normally gone very far in the direction of "accredited demand" and, therefore, the most urban. And we also need to make sure that there are specific housing policies that are very related to rehabilitation in rural areas. Precisely, we have just launched an initiative in this sense. But also – and you point it to the proposal of the law, and you have also explained it in your intervention – it is necessary, therefore, to think about the equipment that needs this rural environment and the territory so that there is this real territorial equity. I sometimes summarize this whole situation with the need for Catalonia to make a national rural-urban pact, huh? We are talking about "urban agenda, which is a very planetary concept and these that the UN uses, which, sometimes, when we use it here, therefore, seems to leave a part of rural territory on the sidelines. The urban agenda also includes rural and territorial issues. But, in any case, beyond the agenda as the instrument for coordinating all these legislative elements and action programmes, you also need this pact, don't you? A pact that, in part, will also go through a certain pedagogy between the rural world and the urban world, huh? Because I've stopped being there, sometimes, after five times, after five times, after five times. From the rural world, the urban world is seen as a, say, a source of resources that, in the end, produces the rural world; and from the urban world, often, the rural world is seen as a source of only a landscape and quality of life that is sought on certain occasions. And, therefore, there must be this pedagogy, there must be this approach, there must be, in short, this understanding because we have a more equitable country from the territorial point of view. And, indeed, you spoke of depopulation. This is not a problem we only have in Catalonia. And you know that. We have this problem in Catalonia, but there's empty or empty Spain, there's Europe, there's the United States. It's just been talked about all that Biden-Trump rivalry is in terms of what the country's territorial reality is, isn't it? , a more urban territory, more metropolity, more focused on costs, respects a more empty central territory. We could make many analogies, but not because this problem is still on our backs and we won't stop talking about it. So, effectively, in all these aspects that we have pointed out before, in this pact and thinking a lot about reversing this depopulation that we have had in our country for decades. But there is also, in fact, a lack of territorial equity in the barrels. This difference to the cities, in the urban world, and, therefore, this difference between barrels. And I would say that we have detected this for years, and not just this government, but previous governments have tried to reduce this difference in equity in the same cities. I remember that the Government of the Generality did – in fact, it continues to do, because some operations have not culminated – a great effort to remodel sentient barrels, barrels that had problems with structural pathologies or barrels that had problems of infrahabitation, which have been replaced to the cent_per_cent. Sometimes, when it comes to the public promotion that has taken place in the field of housing, it is nova promotion, it is so much and it is retracted, we honor ourselves with this important part of the housing policies that have been remodelled, which means renewing, sinking and making us selves of our metropolitan environment. An important, quantitatively important effort, both in terms of housing in millions of euros. And, actually, beyond the barrel remodeling policies, there was also the Barrel Law, huh? That's a law that I've always talked about wonderfully, although it was one of the first laws that the tripartite government did. At some point he made me jealous that I couldn't have made a similar law, but it was a law that actually, beyond the physical aspects, served to act socially in these barrels. And, look, in the end also the crisis and the presuppositional, economic and financial availabilities of the Government of the Generality, in part, conditions for the heritage of the tripartite, did not allow us to continue to develop this law at maximum, as had been done. But ultimately, I'm sure we'll find mechanisms to be able to intervene more and better in the barrels. I'll refer to a few. In any case, I always like to think that from the government what we have to do is – and the Parliament – create territorial conditions that allow this territorial equity. And, effectively – and you said so – we don't talk so much about ‘rebalancing, which is an outdated concept – we could think of a little bit of everything at all; this can lead us to unsustainability – but, precisely, of the concept of ‘cohesion. "Cohesio understand that it must be a territory, a single territory in all its diversity, that it is able to offer equity, that it is able to dispose in itself of all the sustainability required at the environmental level, at the social level, at the economic level, and also resilience, resilience before the climate emergency and sanitary emergencies or those to come. And also – and it will allow me, because you have made a wedge, say, respect some projects – we have to think that the territories have a series of natural assets, close to their tradition, their own conditions, but also that they often need what they call tractors. There was one who had theorized it. And, therefore, some tractor projects that, without moving away from their reality, might that territory. It has not been a couple that I believe are not confined to the territory, but precisely they are active tractor projects that, in the end, must create better territorial conditions, more equity, more resilience, and always after sustainability. And, effectively, therefore, we need more tools, don't we? You didn't mention one that's developing the Dancing Government, that I know well. But, well, in Catalonia we are moving forward, because the Climate Change Law has already made it possible to have a final environmental tax, this CO2 tax on vehicles, which is dedicated to two sources: the Climate Change Fund and the Fund, precisely, for the natural environment and biodiversity. Which, in short, with this fund for the natural environment and biodiversity what do we claim? That I reversed in concrete actions on the territory; for example, improving the natural parks, actius of the territory so as to generate opportunities of life. And I also believe – and we would leave it to the second intervention – that we have a great opportunity with European foundations, these European economic reactivation foundations that point out that we can also use them in issues of habitat rehabilitation, and therefore again, injection of physical policies, but end up feeling social, in the barrels, and also in the territory. We would also like these European foundations to be used to promote new work in the second few cities – you in ugly reference – so as to increase the public park of habitats, which would be one of the elements that would also help us to make this territorial equity manifest in every barri, in every city, throughout the territory of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.205.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, first of all, it's obvious, isn't it? So, that we live in more urban societies every time, that is, we tend to live in urban mons, but at the same time, to make our cities work, we need the conjunct of the territory, and this requires a relationship between the urban and rural areas that I think we need to rethink, and one of the issues is finance, and the ability to finance these environmental and ecosystem services that come from the rural world, and that sometimes, therefore, is not well funded. And here's the key to the paper, we believe in municipalism, don't we? , and here we plan to strengthen the role and resources of the municipalities, all recognize, therefore, for example, the specificities of the micro-populations, which we understand is one of the areas in which to work, but also to bet on the decentralisation of the Administration of the Generality, with old age as regards territorial organization and of the services of the Generality, as well as to exercise the intermunicipal government and cooperation. It is to say, to work on this regional scale also in logic, therefore, of the veggieries, that we believe they have a territorial functionality that can be exploited. A second element that we wanted to put in front of us is that we have..., that is to say, it is obvious that the crisis of 2008 has already opened up new needs for us, but that the current pandemic has changed many things for us, and we believe, in this sense, that perhaps it would be good to rethink territorial planning, right? , review it with a bet, say, in order to adapt it to the current reality, betting for a polycentric model, consolidating, as it says, the middle cities, reinforcing connectivity with public transport, betting for the development of the most disadvantaged territories and also driving the revision of urban planning in clau, therefore, of cities and people sustainable, healthy, with more public space, with more urban greener, with more space for people, with more sustainable transport, with less space for the car. That is to say, we believe that the current crisis also calls for a new model of territories and a new model of cities, which we must also move forward at the planning level. It is true, therefore, that surely the planning tools, as you know very well, so trigate to implement and to elaborate, right? , and that, therefore, what we need is also to be able to intervene more immediately, more directly. I, in this sense, do propose two initiatives. One we have registered, you have said, we have registered it in July in this Parliament, which is the law of territorial equity for the sustainable development of rural areas, a law which seeks to combat the dynamics of territorial inequality in these rural areas, and which we propose to intervene in supra-municipal areas, such as the deed, and with three great objectives. The first, to recognize territorial equity as a right to be guaranteed for the Government of the Generality, a right to see, therefore, with access to transport, guarantee of public transport and road access guarantees to all habitats, right? , to all nuclei; guarantee of access to housing; guarantee of access to educational services with free transportation and food and aids for higher studies; guarantee of access to cultural services, also important in contexts such as the present: libraries, archives, museums, theatre salts, to all rural areas; access to technological services, the optical fibre claus, which reaches everywhere, and also access to energy services, with access guarantees and transition towards energy self-sufficiency, which we believe is important. A law of territorial fairness, I said, with this objective of guaranteeing rights, but also with two other instruments. One, a territorial equity plan that holds the category of sectoral territorial plan and that allows planning all these policies that you have now detailed, and that your department has a lot of involvement, in the field of water, in the field of transport, infrastructure, etc., but that has the logic of planning them at the country's side with the key to fighting against territorial inequalities, and therefore, acting to reverse these dynamic ones, that the reality is, therefore, that we have been planning, we have been acting, but the country continues to have these inequalities. Therefore, this instrument of a territorial equity plan. And the third instrument we proposed with the law of territorial equity was the creation of a fund to intervene in those rural areas, therefore, more vulnerable than the territories, from below, and, therefore, not so much with tractor projects that come from above, which are decided from the government, but the same territories can decide who are those actions that are most lacking. And the last question we want to raise is the need for a new Barley. A new law of barrels that goes beyond the law of 2004, and that, therefore, approaches a new paradigm of the present moment, that should pass, therefore, necessarily, through energy transition, through ecological urbanism. We understand that vulnerable barrels cannot be left out of this process of transition and economic transformation, and therefore, it is a new law that enters the habitations, which the former did not do, which is not only in the better part of public space and in social actions, which are, indeed, very important. And, therefore, that it also focuses on social intervention, but that it also has the capacity to improve the quality of habitats with an energy key, with a sustainability key. We believe that here we have a great challenge to work for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.206.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, there's a counselor's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.207.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, well, we're still matching a lot of the fears you've raised. He talks about decentralisation of the Government of the Generalitat with vegueries and, gosh, here's a decentralisation enthusiast too. In fact, therefore, we obviously have directions for services, urban planning commissions practically for every old age, working. We would have liked to have just deployed the direction of services to the ages of the newest creation, especially that of Penedès. Nevertheless, from the department we pulled forward the Committee on Urbanism of Penedès, and therefore a first step because this reality of urban management, therefore, is much closer to the territory with a committee on urbanism, if I may say so, solemnly we did to Vilafranca to start his work, right? And he also spoke of the need to change territorial planning. I absolutely agree. In fact, we have commented on other occasions, the territorial planning that there has been until now, approved, effective, has followed a territorial planning, surely, very rigid, a territorial planning that has sometimes made more urban planning than no territorial planning. And in what is the review of some aspects of territorial planning or the creation of new territorial planning, for example, that of Penedès, we do not think so much about planning, but about strategies, more flexible strategies that allow after the same territory, through its municipal planning, to opt for what interests it more structurally or before a certain context, but thinking a lot about these strategies, not so much in the rigid planning that we have so far. This is where we're going. And with us instruments that will allow us to reach this territory – you said – more equity, more cohesive, and therefore more equity, more resilient, more sustainable. And with sustainability we're also talking about defining exactly what we can't go on doing by simple inertia or what we need to do or where we're in very definite places from the strategic point of view. I am referring, for example, to non-sustainable solo master plans. You know it's an instrument that we've started in this Parliament of the Secretary of Augusti Serra's hand. And we have both the Costa Brava and the Pyrenees. And they're the first, we want to do more. We want to make plans for unsustainable land grabs in the country. Defining exactly what is an unsustainable soil meets various parameters, of continuity, of density, obviously of environmental and landscape values, also of other more physical aspects, like the same pending of the territory. And, therefore, avoiding that what I was planning, I insist, for inertia I can continue to feel. This always has a point of territorial tension, but I would say that we are as good as the department to be able to pull these two master plans forward, Costa Brava and Piraeus. And, I insist, they're the first, we'll do more. And so also these master plans of sectors of economic activity, but not with the outdated concepts of « rebalancing, but with aspects or with the most modern concepts of « cohesion. And, therefore, thinking there is a need for strategically these economic activities alone, of the kind of investments with added value that the territory needs in places where, logically, there are infrastructures that accompany, are already journeys or are already railways. We're looking for a lot of intermodality. And let's look for something new, with this strategy of new-generation economic activity solo master plans, which is the maximum energy efficiency. Finally, a certain high percentage of energy self-consumption, provided for in the same onlys that there could be, so, ultimately, photovoltaic parks. Catalonia is a single territory and form it, therefore, Barcelona, its metropolitan region, its extensive network of small and medium-sized cities, first crown, second crown, metropolitan realities in Tarragona and Girona, a capital like Lleida, powerful, that joins, therefore, all the municipalities of its region as regards services, and all these people, micro-people, these territories that we have very present. We have a lot of relationships with micro-people like the department. And, in fact, it has remained with the micro-populations that we have put forward this initiative – pilot, from the start, but we pretend that it is structural – to offer possibilities of housing in the rural world and, concretely, in the micro-populations, so as to take advantage of this trend that has now arrived and that we believe that it has come to stay from, with the pandemic, looking, therefore, for areas in which vital projects can be developed, both living and working, in rural surroundings. This is a real territorial equity policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.208.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about public transport]] [[300-00341/12]] The next question is about public transport, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Miquel Buch. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.209.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good late. The Member who preceded this inquiry commented that this was the third time he had questioned the subject. I'm gonna have to confess that this is the first time I've questioned him, huh? As I've been questioned for two years and several times, and tried to give the explanations as I could give them or I've known the best way to give them, but now I've changed sides. I've changed sides and I'm asked, in this case, the territorial adviser. It is worth saying that, therefore, I look, it makes me a special illusion, basically, because we know that the legislature is coming to an end, and therefore, to have this point or this fate of being able to ask the Government of the Generality with whom you have been with for two years, so it is an honor for me. And, at times, also, do it, so, to the Counsellor of Territories, with whom many years ago we know each other and have a "very great personal appreciation." Let's do it, counselor. Today we want to rehearse. We want to reason and debate with you about public transport. But if we want to talk about it, if we want to talk about public transport, we have to bear in mind that we are immersed in the health crisis, in an economic and social crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, a situation that is also associated with, and affects us when we talk about public transport, the climate crisis. For what it does to the economic crisis, it is well known that the economic consequences of the Covid-19's health emergency are very difficult – very difficult. And not just Catalonia. Health, social and economic crises linked to the climate crisis have a global impact. And, therefore, in order to deal with it, there is a need for logic and global action, too. But here we are close to focusing on Catalonia. We believe that we can only face the challenge united efforts. Efforts to be coordinated and to involve both the Government of Catalonia and the local world, social and economic agents and entities. In short, with the involvement of all actors. And, above all, make it with consent. They understand that the consensus passes by to analyze the realities, debate them needed and fix their objectives. But, above all, and very important, face it with the economic capacity and real possibilities that the Government of Catalonia has in this case. It is clear that only from consensus and united efforts can we recover the country sustainably, equitably and, as in the previous question, also with greater resilience. For what it does to the crisis caused by Covid-19, we are aware that during the pandemic the Department of Territories and Sustainability has taken and are taking a whole series of extraordinary measures. I'll talk to him later. But from the outset we would like to explain to us what measures the department has taken to adapt public transport to the situation generated by the Covid-19. We're talking about climate emergency now. And to continue, I will quote Councilman Rull, Councilman Rull when he tells us that we have the planet"not as an inheritance of our peers, but as a loan of our children. I understand, Counselor, that this is how you understand it, and that, despite the difficulties, your department is compromised by the fight against climate change. And you, personally, have not made the spearhead for this important global repte, the repte of managing the planet well and the loan of our children. Therefore, counselor, we would like to thank him for his time in his intervention to talk to us - in speaking to us about what is the situation of public transport in the fight against climate change, the initiations, the results, the situation of CO2 emissions, if we are able to reduce air pollution in Barcelona or other metropolitan areas of Catalonia, in the rest of the territory. And that's all they're asking for, why? Because we know that the department's policies are on their way to facing this challenge. We know that public transport is adapting to the different realities of the country: the busts to demand, the improvements in infrastructures such as the L9, the L10, the different measures adjusted to the different territorial realities that we have in this country..., and also because we know that they are pursuing the objective of having more robust public transport infrastructures to facilitate the displacements of all citizens. Counselor, we've talked many times. We share with you the yearning of that country that Prat de la Riba and the Commonwealth of Catalonia have devised. Therefore, we know that, despite the economic and presuppositional shortcomings that the department suffers, public transport policies are being applied that think throughout the territory, and that adapt to the different territorial realities. And it's at this point, Counselor, that we would also thank him for telling us about the best things that are coming to fruition. Whether we're talking about public transport, it's as much in the metropolitan area – or metropolitan areas – as it is in the rest of the territory. I told him I'd talk to him about the pandemic more quickly. Let's go back to it. Public transportation, as we have said before, is not alien to a situation, to this situation. Nine emergencies have been generated that have resulted in need of funding to the network. It is obvious that the reduction of mobility, the confinements, the teletreball, have lowered the demand for public transport. Also, the department was forced to maintain the service offer. Keep the offer and adapt it to the instructions and recommendations made by Prociate. And to ensure essential displacements and provide a secure public transport service to the user. All this has resulted in a reduction in demand, so a reduction in inputs and, in change, the offer has been kept in good measure, so the cost has remained, or, even so, the cost of the service may have increased by security measures. Counselor, how have you faced this situation? Have they passed this reality on to the government? Who was his answer? Can you explain to us the contributions that the State has made to bear this situation? And to finish this inquiry, we want to talk about the future. Everything that has been managed and managed during this time has to be used to face powerful infrastructure and public transportation, capacço, robust, and also mediately more sustainable. We've got a few years ahead of us to decide where we're going to change. Some changes are already being implemented and others know that they are being analyzed for their implementation and why the public transport of the future to Catalonia is a success. The key is to have a public transport that is a backbone of our country, an indispensable piece for social balance and equal opportunities, a phone strategy for economic development and a tool, not to say a weapon, for fighting climate change. We aspire to a public transport adapted to the new needs of every moment and linked much in particular to the 2030 Green Agenda; agenda that we know your department is pushing with firmness, because, as you, we understand and share that mobility and sustainability must come from the hand. Counselor, how did the department plan to push all these changes in public transport? Who are the objectives that are raised in the mobility to achieve a more sustainable public transport? I have asked you a number of questions at the length of this inquiry, which you will be able to answer, we are not convinced, but before I finished, I did mean that yesterday, at the control session, you specifically said that the bet of this government and of this public transport adviser is firm. Go ahead to see that all the work done in the past two years for the Junts Parliamentary Group in Catalonia for public transport has also been a work that we believe has not been carried out, that has been a firm bet for public transport, for the better part of this country. Well, this inquiry and the compromise between Junts and Catalonia's future is also public transport. So, counselor, you have the word. Let us hope that he can answer us, that he can give us the appropriate explanations and we remain in his disposition for the firm, constant and valid work for a better public transport of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.211.0	Thank you, President. Member, the truth is that I am very pleased that you are asking me, and that, moreover, you also coordinate the Group of Joints for Catalonia to the Committee of Territories, a real pleasure. You have been mayor of Premià de Mar, you have been president of the ACM, you have been advisor, and therefore you have a complete view – now a deputy – very close to the city, through your institutional and also personal trajectory. Therefore, I am very pleased that you are asking me about public transport, because I must confess, and you know, Mr. MP, friend Michael, that I admire and admire you very much. We find ourselves in a triple crisis, which has described very well in its intervention– this health crisis, this economic crisis, this climate crisis–, and the government's efforts to combat its effects are enormous, and what we are most concerned about..., the efforts of people, families and businesses also to try to get us out – all of them are also huge, they are resourceful. People are patenting for the effects on health, obviously, but they are also patenting for the consequences in the workplace, in the closure of sectors for the restrictions, the economic effects beyond this health and economic crisis, and there is also, and you know, the climate, in fact. We were already in climate emergency before the pandemic arrived, and we are still in climate emergency, so we can't lose sight of it, and so we have to take, we have to continue making the right decisions. And today's question about public transport allows us to remember once more that the actions I have to see with mobility must be present, very present this climate emergence. A more sustainable mobility means, first and foremost, more and better public transport. The general context is carbon neutrality compromises for the year 2050. It is an objective that they have made their way from the European Union to the Generality of Catalonia. In the case of the ATM, the Barcelona area, the date has advanced to 2035, huh? because we are convinced that these public transport services will, therefore, be carbon neutral on the date I have advanced. Therefore, decarbonization is a bet of an economy free of externalities, more efficient in the use of energy, generating stable jobs – this is also very important – for a wide range of professional profiles, and they are absolutely inevitable actions to complete with the Paris agreements. Therefore, in terms of helping them or encouraging them for the health, social and economic emergence that we are experiencing, instead, the right strategy is to accelerate them from this pandemic and turn them into a true stimulus for recovery from economic activity. There have been many other aspects: quality of the area, recovery of public space from alternate uses of traffic, and ultimately you asked who are the objectives for more sustainable mobility, and the answer is precisely this: to decarbonize it; which, on the other hand, is what you ask from Europe, huh? A green, ecological transition. In fact, Europe has placed in the center of the capacity for economic reactivation which, precisely, is complete in all aspects of the green agenda. And the health emergency, so yes, has generated an important davalada from the use of the public transport network, basically, for mobility restrictions, huh? And we will not fail to insist that public transport is safe, and all expert studies confirm to us that the data in these areas are very small, and therefore the gap in demand has been due to mobility restrictions. And anyway, I want to remind you that in the toughest stages of the pandemic, the drop in demand has come to be 95_percent of what is the usual demand, and that, as you know, and you pointed out, has caused a drastic, dramatic reduction in tariff tickets, huh? , since there is an important part – approximately, rounding up, 50_per_cent – which is due to tariff deficit, and therefore causes additional financing needs. We have increased the tariff deficit on the part of the Government of Catalonia and the transport authorities. And I was wondering if we have transferred this concern to the State, and I have to say that we have, from the very first moment, to sectoral conferences and with the constant work that we have of interrelationship between the department and the ministries, both from the Department of Territories and from the ATM in Barcelona. In this case, we already have the official assignment, it is a fixed amount, and therefore it is only a matter of administrative processing, that is to say, that the State is transferring to the Generality, that is, it is also transferring to the operators who have the tariff deficit for the provision of services – and the contribution through the local fund. The royal decree I was considering wasn't validated at the Congress of Deputies, wasn't validated, was it? And, therefore, it has gone down, and from then on they have announced on various occasions that they will present a new one that can be validated, but at this time it is not, we do not have, this decree which, say, collects extraordinary contributions through the local fund. Are we worried? A little bit, huh? A little, 'cause we're hot. Good words and promises always take the wind away. Every day that the public transport funding deficit passes, and this deficit increased by the drop in demand grows and grows – we are now more than, attention, 475_million euros, than is a smaller figure. I sometimes venture to say that after the health bill, the most important bill will be to have guaranteed, through the maintenance of the offer, despite the davalada of the demand, the public transport service, precisely, to guarantee this mobility, among other essential. But beyond the essence, the entire population is growing, and so far only the Generality is responding to these needs. We're talking only this year, I'm sorry, we're not just referring to this year 2020, we're also predicting that by 2021 we'll continue to have this increase in the tariff deficit, huh? ... in the 2021 State General Presuppositions, those who today have brought this majority forward, these 2021 Presuppositions are not covered by any contribution to compensate for the pandemic, although it is obvious that they will continue to feel it, 2021. Because an idea is coming up, if you finally get this input from the State, that I'm telling you that we're waiting for you, even if you get there, we'd still be short of respect for the needs, even if we solve the local fund. All these are aspects that concern us, but all these are aspects that we are working intensively day by day between departments and ministries. We're worried, we're busy. Are we worried? Yes, a little, but I think that, logically, we will cover this deficit – the ordinary and increasing of the tariff deficit. The Generality has approved an injection of EUR 50 million more, but it will be missing more; on the part of the Generality, 115 million of the imports that have to be scrapped from the State have already been advanced in order to mitigate the effects on the operators of the services; we must always wait for them in the contributions to public transport and on so many other subjects. It's costing us a fortune, a lot of money, huh? The bill of public transport for the pandemic does not stop to increase, but our bet to maintain the quality, the robust, the services in all their offer, is firm, indeed. Secondly, and you were also asking, we have adapted to ensure at all times the maximum possible security. And I'm talking about themes of frequency, themes of cleanness, seasons, machinery, of the own material, so, mobile. This has meant an increase in operating expenses on the part of the main operators resulting from this increase in safety and hygiene measures, but it is precisely what we had to do to provide this security to which it refers, even more clearly. And thirdly and lastly, the corresponding regulatory measures have been adopted, both by the Territorial Department and also by the territorial mobility authorities, in order to guarantee the coverage of this operating deficit of the system to operators, to ensure that their economic viability, therefore, persists, is not severely affected. You think we're talking at the end of the day about paying workers' bills, too, huh? and, therefore, all this is after this maintenance of the offer and of this observation of the deficit and of the increase of deficit and of this observation, effectively, of the money that we have to bring or we have to pay in order to be able to cover these deficiencies. I ended my intervention with another of the questions that you have asked, which is: how do we prepare to strengthen what we are always more and better public transport, how do we translate it. So from the Government, from the Department of Territory we will continue to pull forward the great railway projects that at these times we have on the table: the L9 and the L10, the L8, the union of the trams for the Diagonal, the tram train of the Camp of Tarragona. Also road projects: bus-VAO trolleys, transportation on demand, the BRCAT network, renewal of bus stations, interswitchers and park and rides. And we would very much like that in all, or much of these projects, we could also come back again – before we talked about it, in the other question – European foundations. It is these structural foundations that, with the green agenda at the centre of government decisions and action, will enable us to have more and better public transport, which means more sustainable mobility, and which ultimately means a country of the first, a sustainable country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.212.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the rural agenda]] [[300-00343/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about the rural agenda, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republic, Mrs Marta Vilalta. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.213.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much, President. Adviser, Counsellor, today we have an inquiry, as the President of Parliament has said, into the Catalan rural agenda. And with this title someone can think: "You see this one here to talk about the people. This theme does not matter, it only interests some. So no. We come to talk about the country, because talking about the Catalan rural agenda is talking about the country. Not only that, it's talking about opportunities, and it's talking about the present and, especially, also about the future – and also about the present, but above all, about the future – because, without a living rural world, there is no country, and we want everything, the country. And, therefore, the question we ask him in this sense, with this country visit, to bet..., to be able to co-ordinate the territory, to direct it, to diversify the activities, if any, the activities that are due to the different places, also to promote the potentialities and the strategic sectors of each part and each area of the country, because, certainly, each area has its potential. The rural agenda, the Catalan rural agenda, is the agenda of opportunities, will advise, so we see. It is an opportunity, to deploy the Catalan rural agenda, because the Catalan rural agenda is the agenda of opportunities. And when we think of the country – before we said it – we think of the land as a whole. And that's how we defend it from the Republican Left and what we work for from the Republican Left, to generate opportunities for everyone, to see where everyone lives, or who wants to live where they want to live. And we're doing this to you, Counselor Jordan, because there's a lot to say. Actually, there's not much to say, but it says a lot, and it's what else it's done, too. So, thank you very much. But knowing and remembering that this is not a question of a specific councillor. We appreciate his leadership, but this is a question, as I said, of a country, and only with this cross-cutting vision, from the whole realm of government, in an interdepartmental way, will be possible. That's what we demand from the Republican Left. In this construction of the country we have a maximum, a very clear objective: that everyone can develop their life project where they want to stop the country. And for this it is necessary, of course, to create opportunities, create the relationship and generate the territorial relationship, combat depopulation and aging – then we will talk about it. But in order to achieve this, we need to guarantee you services, we need to ensure that there are these opportunities at every place in the country, and that means—these services—education, schools, greetings, CAPs or consulting, means transportation that can cover all the necessary network, good communications, not only physical infrastructure, but also connectivity, optical fiber or connection, and guarantee, also, and serve and right to housing; no more or less, like any part of the country. And that, of course, is willfulness, ambition – that we detect, som-hi –, and it is also resources, indeed. He said that we know very well what we are talking about – because the country, unfortunately, has always been unbalanced – and that we face two folds, above all, or so we understand and see. Two reptes: depopulation, for one gang, and aging, for the other. In fact, the edition of the Observeri del Món Rural, which edits the Fundació del Món Rural, said that during 2018, when we have the last data, it lost strength, rural depopulation. And we would say, "Ostres, that's good news. But it's also deceptive, because that doesn't mean it's done, say, contained in this depopulation, but it's just that what's happening is that the smallest municipalities do lose people to the concentration of the inhabitants to the capitals of the region. So it can be a little deceptive. And in any case, what we want is for all the municipalities to have this guarantee of opportunity. The depopulation we speak is especially marked in the municipalities of the Alt Urgell, of the two Pallars – Pallars Sobirá and Pallars Jussà –, of the Noguera, of the South of the Lower Segrià, of the Garrigues, also of the Ribera d'Ebre, of the Upper Land, of the Priorat, of the Solsones, and also of the Osona. And, for what it does to the other side, the aging, so, above all the aging of the rural world population, we know and see – and so do the data – that it is much more marked, it is much more accused than not the aging in urban areas. In this sense, certainly, the over-enveloping, is to say, which affects persons aged over eighty-five years, therefore, is about 19.9_per_cent, three points per over in rural areas than in the urban world. But at times, there are also positive facts, and we want to put them in value. Because it highlights the creation of new businesses or the increase in the number of affiliates, for example, to social security, and continues to decrease the number of jobs in the following areas of the rural area. In fact, the situation in rural areas in urban areas is persuasive. All this has now been moved also by the context of the economic and social crisis that we are experiencing, but this is the trend. There are also other positive data: the quality of life is one of the best values, as well as the shortcomings we have already identified – the need for transport, basic services or connectivity, as well as access to housing. It is more, in this context of pandemic, in this context of crisis, unfortunately, which now makes reference, in these contexts of complexity the challenges that we have many times also carry associated new opportunities, not all is denied. Obviously, the context is denied, but in these contexts of complexity, there are always opportunities that we must be able to lead and we must be able to take. And, in this sense, confinement, everything we have to live this year has also accelerated some of the changes, and this we need to be able to reverse and we need to be able to take advantage of. For example, teletreball is now more than ever before, and it's one of the opportunities to empower, to generate opportunities in second areas of the country. And before these challenges, therefore, before the challenges of depopulation, of aging, of balance, of connecting the territory and of cohesion, very important, what we believe is that we can act in a coordinated way among all levels of administration, and also all the most expert entities. Therefore, we consider that we now have a unique opportunity, not only for these opportunities that are always associated with crisis contexts, but also because a series of factors are aligned that we believe are positive. For example, European strategies in the field of..., rural strategies, more than the same European foundations, therefore, of the possibility of having resources. Other questions that are in line, see here: food, the food sector, as an emerging and powerful sector, especially in the second five rural areas; the existence of the 2030 Agenda and the agenda for sustainability, to make natural and resilient ecosystems, strong and resourced to adapt to global, economic and environmental change. And also, right? The Green Deal, which exists at European level, is also linked to food, sustainable food, and we therefore believe that it can also be part of this positive ecosystem to create opportunities and to develop and deploy the Catalonian rural agenda. And, therefore, as we take advantage of these winds of change, these winds of transformation, to deploy this rural agenda of Catalonia, which the Government, through the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation, has already approved. And, in this sense, counsel, we want to ask you about the evolution of these tasks, for which will be the various stages of implementation, which are the steps, and therefore what we are talking about when we talk about this rural agenda in Catalonia and everything you see before. From the Republican Left, we already bet the advance, with all the ambition and with all the celebration, also, and satisfaction, to deploy the Catalan rural agenda. And we'd like to see this strategy that allows us to plan how we falsify territorial cohesion, that we haven't filled our mouths talking, but that we have to make it happen. Because we want a cohesive country, also territorially. Therefore, as we falsify the territorial cohesion strategy. That we serve, this agenda, also rural, to address the diagnosis of these needs that we speak before, and that we already know who they are, but well detailed and well analyzed: habitating, communication – both physical and connectivity– all services – education, habitating, greeting. We want this agenda to also serve to make rural areas remain rich and busy. Also occupation, because occupation... because talking about work places in these areas is talking about plotting. And if we're talking about plotting, we're fighting depopulation, and so it's the main tool to fight this depopulation inertia. We want this agenda, or we would like this agenda, too, to guarantee the generational replenishment. It is important to attend to the opportunities of the youngest so that they can, above all, decide where they want to create their future project, that they are not forced to go, that they need to develop, and that they have the ability to decide on how to build their life project. This agenda must also be able to serve to empower and make visible the role of the woman. The effective equality of women also in rural areas is very important. To turn Catalonia into a country of reference and prestige in the areas that they can most contribute to generating these opportunities in the local or rural world, such as the agri-food system or the management of sustainability and the management of the natural environment. I'll leave it here, Counselor. Then I will continue, because I want to make a concrete reference to some of these areas, but we would certainly like to, so we can begin to explain exactly what implementation is and what is all that is prepared to deploy the Catalan rural agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.214.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordan. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.215.0	Well, very good evening to all and all. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your inquiry. Very late, good evening, all and all. In fact, as is already known, so much so that a servant is not tired of saying it and because the department that I chair, therefore, has not tired, I say, of remembering it day by day too, as the various agents who see, work and take care, obviously, of the territory – they constantly warn us – it is extremely necessary to act, to act already. Not so many words and facts on the demographic front of the depopulation that they have, as has been well indicated, the rural territories. But this action is also extremely essential to be involved and, obviously, also coordinated between the different levels of the Administration, the territorial entities – important indeed – and, obviously, the various agents involved in the viability of all these fantastic territories. Because, as we have always defended from the department, the challenge of depopulation is not just a competitive challenge for this department, but rather a challenge, as you, as a country, pointed out, a challenge of a country with various implications and opportunities. In fact, with an infinite number of opportunities. And it is that people who have decided to develop life or their life plan in rural areas must have a school nearby. There should be no displacing in a disproportionate way for health care. They should be able to access the population nucleus in an agile and, above all, in a secure manner. You should also have a connection to the internet and – my God, 21st century – mobile coverage. Or, basically, you'd have to find a habitat in order to get there and, obviously, make it your home. Education, health, transport, communications, new technologies or housing, some services, as has also been said, essential because it can be consolidated, obviously, this happening, eh? the territorial structure of these people in rural areas. Because, in fact, that's not enough. And that's what I always say: there's not enough – and I don't mean it because I'm wrong, huh? – with only the policies we make from the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, which are many. And no matter how well we do them, let me just hide it, no matter how well we do them, there's not much, absolutely. In rural territories, people are not solely and exclusively engaged in paging or rowing or fishing. So much good, so much good, huh? , because we should not suffer for the generational relay to the primary sector or we should not suffer for the food sovereignty, among many other things. In this sense, both the department and the government work with the objective of ensuring equal opportunities and contributing, obviously, to territorial balance, and that is why in its time the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation was created, as has been said, a tool, let me say so, of reference at the governmental level and participated by actors and actors who contribute knowledge and expertise. Precisely, it is in this framework on the impulse of the ARCA, important – the Association of Rural Initiatives of Catalonia –, but also with the essential collaboration, because we should have them at all, not only the interdepartmental commission, those that I will say now..., with the Association of Micropopulations, with the Association, also Catalana de Municipis and the Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development, the CADS..., the need to establish a specific rural agenda, the rural agenda of Catalonia. Actually, as Congresswoman Vilalta says, it's an opportunity. I, in fact, point it out – and point it out a little, Marta Vilalta, but now it is –: it's opportunity. This is the opportunity. This is, therefore, the task of the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation, meeting on September 10th, and reassembled this same November 19th so as to finally approve the methodology, as we will do. Therefore, we carry the inn, we are conjured, in fact, not only to overcome this disaffection, between these two universes, but we are conjured also to create, as I said, all the opportunities of the rural world. Contextualize a little the mark where we find ourselves, and answer your question as to why we actually have this existence of a specific rural agenda, so basically for a lot of reasons that have also been pointed out, and that I don't think you're finding anything else, huh? We need to reconnect rural needs and realities with urban areas. It's imperative. Besides, we can't wait any longer, we're already late. We need to establish governance systems that also facilitate this cross-cutting and take into account the rural areas of our country, which are many, which are diverse. If necessary, we must be able to review and establish systems of custody, so that the decision making, the present, but also the future, and the legislative framework are in place, but also the future, guarantee, obviously, and promote a good rural development. And, of course, also, and as I mentioned a while ago, we have a rural agenda to put an end to the process of depopulation of some rural areas, so that we can live in these territories that are essential for the country's viability. So clearly, we need to ensure equal opportunities and, obviously, contribute to territorial balance. We also need to be able to deal effectively with climate change, which is important. And that's what we need, too. In this sense, we can also guarantee the ecosystem services that offer natural spaces, which are very much, huh? , and the agricultural activity, which is also very much, in this climate-emergency context. We should also – in fact, we – be able to develop the energy transition process with sufficient guarantees that it is distributed and participated. And it's also very important to be able to improve the competitiveness of rural entrepreneurship, because yes, although many times since the urban centrality it seems that in the countryside there must be no business, so no, mistake, a big mistake, huh? Because there is none and, in fact, we still need to create more, we need to create the socio-economic brands that improve their competitiveness. Also to be able to guarantee, therefore, that account will be taken of the needs and emergencies in the structure and also in the deployment of the different European foundations. The honourable Member also pointed out this: we must say that the territory must say its own, and the agenda must also make it easier to give an effective and consensual response before the emergencies and emergencies of the immediate future, which follow: the Post-Covid Economic Recovery Plan, which we now have, Catalonia Horitzó 2022, the new European period..., all of them. We want to give it to him and tell him ours. In short, the Catalan rural agenda must allow real and effective territorial cohesion, improving the quality of life of people living in rural areas. Actually, let's not invent anything, huh? - and I'm done. There are precedents that place us at this point that we see today Catalonia. For one group, on October 3, 18, the European Parliament adopted a resolution in Strasbourg on the response to the specific needs of rural areas – in which they spoke earlier in another question, also – about the mountains and peripherals of the European Union. It's not a problem just passing us here, obviously. At that time, he called for the drafting of a European rural agenda. And, for another band, the year 2019, is to say, four days ago, France approved its rural agenda, a rural agenda with two-hundred measures, very specific all of them, for rural development. In fact, even in France, the French Rural Parliament was created to follow up and oversee the implementation and advance of the agenda. In fact, we are inspiring, that is to say, also, a lot on this French agenda, at this moment we are also having contacts, through the Meritxell Serrat, the government delegate to Brussels, to work links already with the European rural agenda that is currently being developed. And now I'm done. Now to our country, to Catalonia, by responsibility, we take a step further, a firm step, a very firm step, conveying the political will of the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation and the strategy of "Living Country, creating the Drafting Committee" – the drafting committee is already there, already exists – formed by Arca, as well as by the ACM, by Micropopulations and CADS, and the motor committee, which has the drafting committee, there are entities, there are social and economic agents and, obviously, representatives of the citizenry. And after a process of territorial participation, with local action groups, an important agent, local councils and inclusive territorial tables, the document will be finalized to sign and bring to the government agreement. And we'll do all this in half a year, in six months, because we're in a hurry, because rural areas need it, and because this country, it knows or it still doesn't know, still needs more. Therefore, it is for this reason that it is proposed to draw up a specific rural agenda, the Catalan one, in order to restitute ruralities, all of them, in order to restitute ruralities at the centre of the policies of this country. I'm done. You are asked here, in your parliamentary office, that all of you, that the parliamentary groups, too, involve you in this compromise project, but not just a compromise project, if you will, but a project of justice with rurality and, above all, with the men and women who live and work there. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.216.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the line up, you've got the deputy back again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.217.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thanks for the explanations. In fact, the importance of addressing this Catalan rural agenda, which you also now describe to us in what way and what should be the next steps..., the importance of addressing this Catalan rural agenda in the key of our country allows us to realize these opportunities also at the level of each territory. And look, now I'm talking to the leidatana and the Torregrossin, by the way. We want to stop complaining, we want to overcome the speech that we sometimes have to do or that has been generated, at last, with a victimistic point and be proactive and move forward and transform reality. That's what we've come to do and what we actually have to do and make Republican people: transform. And we're picking up the glove I've been giving you right now. We're in a hurry, so we're there. We are there, because, effectively, as we have before, better to reverse these reptiles that we have and to generate these territorial opportunities. The rural areas do not have the predeterminate destiny nor the predestined that the people are left abandoned or without people, to which we have to live from the record of which it was a few years ago. No, no, Each land has its potential, each area has its most strategic sectors. And, for example, as I was saying, the case of the Lleidatan lands or the Upper Pyrenees, the maximum potential, if it is true that not everyone, obviously, lives in the primary sector, even though sometimes there are these clixes..., it is true that there is a strategic sector and a sector, such as the agri-food sector, which is emerging, which is synonymous and we want it to be still more of prestige, of occupation, of generation of wealth, of opportunity, of territorial balance. A sector like that of food that we have seen, in fact, as essential and as essential in this time of pandemic and crisis that we have experienced, above all, in the stages of confinement. Therefore, to transform these areas, to transform Lleida it is possible, to generate these hopes of the future, to be able to generate opportunities, to situate the territory to its place that surrounds it, to grow also economically, to generate occupation through leadership and vocation, in this case, with the connection with the agri-food sector, but also to update it with the opportunities that allows us the 21st century, technology, innovation and with all ambition. We're on condition to do so, you said. And we share it. We're on conditions to do it. The context helps, the global strategies... the resources that can come. We have a lot of hope, we have a lot of hope to take on this leadership, to claim ourselves, to be able to work for opportunities, for the present and for the future, and we know how to do it, as your department is doing. And as we think it's time to do it, it's time I lined up. And in this sense, we're not just talking about the government. You have also said this: we consider the involvement of local administrations, the rest of the institutions, the organisations and expert bodies to be very important. It's like, from co-management, co-participation, co-government, too, with this republican view. And, therefore, we hope that the rural agenda will allow the rural world to be part of the decision-making process of our country's construction. Therefore, counsel, let us conjure ourselves to build the country with a country visit and, even though it seems redundant, I believe that it is perfect. The country can only build it with a full country view, with the guarantee of equal opportunities for everyone, where you see or want to live where you live. And those who have long complained or complained, we have many hopes to stop doing it and to move on to lead, to generate horizons, to generate hopes, and we need to do it together. We do not want to let anyone go back, but we do not want any territory, which no part of the country is left back. We bet, therefore, for this contract, this understanding between the urban and rural worlds, because they cannot be two contrasting realities, on the contrary; they cannot continue to live side by side with each other or vice versa, but they must look face to face and work together, because it will also be an opportunity to guarantee or to be able to hold the necessary sovereignties, also food or energy, if we have this global view of the country. And I finish as it began: this is not a question of a concrete place or of a minor issue, but it is a question with a country view, so we have also felt it from your voice. Therefore, if we redistribute ourselves and guarantee opportunities, we will have this harmonic society, more cohesive to a managed territory where people will see that they feel uneasy, and that they will also consider themselves, that they also consider themselves their own territory. And we, as we believe in the country, believe in this country, want it to be the best, the best country in the world, and that means guaranteeing everyone's opportunities everywhere. We're opening up time for those bad names of countries or territories, but we're and we want to be and we're convinced that with territorial and institutional complicity we'll get out and do it. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.218.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, to make his reply, he's got the counselor back. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.219.0	Well, thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now the president said "to make his reply. That's the answer, no, what we're gonna do is point at something else, huh? Because it's so important the issue we're talking about today – in fact, it's a country issue – that the only thing we can do is add something else to it. We're talking about opportunities. In fact, yesterday I had the opportunity – which made me extremely happy – to be invited to the Hall of Cent of the Assembly of Barcelona, obviously with the mayor at the front, but with many other authorities, to give the sort of exit to Barcelona as the world capital of sustainable food. And this is an opportunity. Yesterday a servant, but also the national coordinator of Unió de Pagesos..., at the Hall of Cent we talked about ramaderes, we talked about fishermen, we talked about the opportunities that the agri-food system has, we talked about pagesia, we talked about the primary sector. And everyone hugged us with these words. It's one more opportunity. Surely, the pandemic, with these social and economic derivatives so bad, and that we must give an answer, obviously, as it cannot be otherwise, also gives us some opportunity. And, surely, the agri-food sector has not seen any. This sector, the agri-food sector, which is distributed to rural areas, has not exactly failed in the trunks of its chain throughout this pandemic. And yesterday we explained, and today we are going to do it again – and the rural agenda is an opportunity, obviously, also, to do it, but not just to do it, but to falsify it – that the agri-food system we want and demand for this country is justly sustainable, it is justly transformative and based, as it cannot otherwise be, on the bioeconomy, but we also want this system to be just, and to be fair. And that's a lot to see what we've been talking to. We also want it to be a generator, obviously, of the future, as it cannot be otherwise, but we want it, without any doubt, to stall the territory. And if I said a moment ago, and the honourable Member was also explaining it, that not everyone who lives in rural areas is dedicated to agriculture, treasuries and fishing, which is true, it is also true that those who dedicate themselves to it are. And we need to get better, we need to get bigger, we need to get more cohesive, because we're food producers, and we want to keep the best of food. And all that, married to all the backs that come from Europe, so, listen, house in a perfect way. We want this present and we want it now, huh? But also to falsify the future. And now we have many opportunities. It would be extremely unfair for this country, which is the only one we have and, as the honourable Member rightly says, we believe – because it is what we know and because it is ours... Basically, what we have to do is to give opportunities to all the territories, to all the citizens and to all the citizens. And giving opportunities means giving dynamism and also getting our communities, all of them, all of them, more and less villages, and making this territorial cohesion continue to fight and stay alive. And we can't do that – that's why when the methodology was explained there were so many agents involved – only from this Parliament, we can't do it only from the Department of Agriculture, we can't do it only from the Government and from the rest of the departments involved, which, as we have said, we are all. We have to do this with the agents, with the agents of the territory, with those who enjoy and suffer, with those who know first-hand who are those who are needy, all those who are needy. And that's why the honourable Member was talking about it too – we are planting this urban agenda, which I have also asked for the involvement of parliamentary groups, basically, in this republican governance, this horizontal democracy, if I may, where all those who have something to say, about that supreme good, in this case, about having the rural territories of our country beaten through this urban agenda, are concerned to say theirs. We'll do it with this methodology, which I think is very well falsified, and, yes, we'll get out of it. To have, obviously, the best of the countries, and the best of the countries, is when all the citizens of this country have the same opportunities and, above all, can develop their life project where they have chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-03-6702.220.0	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the order of the day, we raise the session.
