ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.1.0	Good morning. MPs, MPs, take over the plenary. [[Report and conclusions of the Climate Emergency Monitoring Commission]] [[260-00003/12]] And we do so with the 15th item on the agenda, which corresponds to the report debate and the conclusions of the Climate Emergencies Follow-up Committee. In accordance with Rule 65.2 of the Rules of Procedure, this Follow-up Committee has approved a report and conclusions, which have already been published in the Butlletí Oficial del Parlament de Catalunya and which we will see in this debate. In any case, in the first place, the chairman of the committee will intervene to present these works, the deputy Mrs Natialia Sánchez. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.2.0	Good morning. Members, Members, President, Councillors, first of all, I would like to thank all Members and especially the spokesman who took part in this committee. Also give thanks to the reader who accompanied us, Mr. Antoni Bayona, and to Angel Zardoya, manager of the house, for the follow-up in which it is evident that there have been some brief committee work, which has begun late, and that, therefore, there have been insufficient work for the needs of the climate emergency and the need to complete the object of the same Climate Emergency Follow-up Committee, which is the follow-up to government action in relation to this. Therefore, I would like to put this question on the table, because I believe that it is an indisputable consensus among the members of the committee and that the same report that we are presenting today includes, and that I think it is essential that it be enclosed as a starting point for what the work should be looking towards the future, to the next legislature. The Climate Emergency Follow-up Committee shall deliver the assessment and follow-up report at the end of each session period and a final report of conclusions. Today we present this final report of conclusions, I insist, which, for what it does to work, has been insufficient. The patent of this commission, which has been held only three sessions, does not follow that the contents of the same report are not valued. And, in this sense, I also come back to thank all parliamentary groups for their flexibility at the time of adapting to a very concrete context, which is this patent, for the late beginning of the work. On 11 December, a motion for a resolution was adopted in which we reached the consensus to bring this committee forward, but it was not until 22 July that the Bureau set up this committee at the end of the previous part-session. The prime minister did that later; therefore, I insist, I want to put a lot of emphasis on this issue: late and bad. I'd like to give thanks and also put on the table... the people and the collectivities that appeared there. In a single session we held, we were able to listen to the appearances of Ms. Montserrat Termes, Chairman of the Committee of Experts on Climate Change ; Mr. Javier Martín-Vide, Coordinator of the Third Climate Change Report in Catalonia ; Ms. Manola Brunet, Chairman of the Climate Committee of the World Meteorological Organization ; Mr. Tomás Molina, Weather and Physics, and the companies representing Extinction Rebellion, a collection that, as you know, is fighting the causes and consequences of climate change. Thanks to their contributions and thanks also to the contributions of the same parliamentary groups, today we are presenting a report that basically has two parts, conclusions and recommendations, focusing on: general conclusions, gas with winter effects, future actions, carbons, renewable energies, defossilization of the economy, residues, vulnerable spaces and biodiversity, taxation and the same work of the committee, as well as a range of recommendations that we will now all be presenting and prioritising in this debate. I insist – and I finish and I give them the word – that despite the patenting of activity and work, I think we have an important consensus among all the groups that we have represented in the Catalan Parliament today to continue these follow-up work on the action of the Government and the governments that will come in relation to climate change. Because public policies that are driven, whether from the Parliament or from the Government of Catalonia, are important at the time of fighting against the climate change. And I think that many of the conclusions that have been approved and drawn today are essential to be able to map out a full path to the future and, indeed, to make Catalonia a pioneer country against climate change. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We shall then proceed to the intervention of parliamentary groups and sub-groups, for a maximum of two minutes the groups and five sub-groups. Before passing the word to the groups, however, he wanted to welcome the deputy Santiago Vilanova. I have done it personally, but I also do it publicly and on behalf of the whole chamber: welcome, Congressman. Let us now move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups. And, in this case, in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.4.0	Hello, good morning. Thank you, Counsellor, for your assistance, and all Members. In September 2019 the Climate Emergency Commission is approved to be set up, but it is not until July 2020 that it is set up. It is true that there is the emergency of the Covid through and that from September to March there are still four months that have stood there, this commission. And, anyway, it is not until the end of October, when it was already known that the legislature was exhausted, that the activity of this commission begins. I mean, yeah, it's a climate emergency commission, but maybe we haven't taken it with the emergency we should. I think you will agree with everything that has been said, both by the president and by the other groups who will speak later, that a month and only three formal meetings in total is not enough for the committee or the report that this generates to serve a great deal. Well, they're good for everyone to posture, to see who's more ecological, who's more concerned about climate change. Nevertheless, efforts have been made to work as best as possible on the part of all Members, but none of the tasks and objectives of this committee can be fulfilled. There hasn't been a collection job. Detailed and comprehensive work plans have not been submitted. There is no continuity in time, because it has been extremely brief. The five appearances that have been made have been really very interesting, but very interesting, indeed, but they are neither representative nor plural enough to draw rigorous conclusions. Therefore, a big first conclusion is that if we really believe in the climate emergency, in the next parliamentary term this committee should come back from the very beginning, and seriously. That is why this committee has served to make it clear that this committee is necessary. Although the main objective, which was the follow-up to government action on the climate emergency, has not been met – it is clear that we have not done that follow-up –..., we have merely listened to those five experts – five, only five –, summarizing what they have said and also trying to put our book into the conclusions, each parliamentary group. And here I want to make a little emphasis. Each parliamentary group has submitted a final report according to its own criteria. And I am very sorry, or very sorry, that, knowing that this committee has not had the normal course it should have had, some clearly partisan positions have been presented as conclusions and that none of the participants had quoted. Positions that can be totally legitimate – everyone can think what they want – but that have nothing to do with the objectives of the commission have not been debated or contrasted. For example, the impact of 155 on climate change has not been discussed. I don't think it's the object of the commission to attack capitalism like that, because it is. Neither has there been talk of closing incinerators nor of suspending ongoing procedures, stopping infrastructure or stopping the Hard Rock. And here come these things, in this report. Nor have there been any consensus on the wording in the report, such as: "The Catalan ecological movement is a referent in civil disobedience. Referent? Is he a referent? Do we really know that he is a reference? It could be, but we don't know. That a new generation is fighting on the street for climate justice from anticapitalism, socialism and feminism? Man, it's very epic, but is this true? Is that right? Is there a new generation fighting in the streets? Well, it may be, but it hasn't been discussed or contrasted. Seriously, this hasn't been touched in these three sessions. And another example, on agriculture: has there really been a debate on agriculture? Because here comes a conclusion that really to me, as a professional in the sector, puts my hair at the top. And I'm going to read it literally, or more or less literally, because I've shortened it: "Contemporary agriculture mines the land and extracts all the minerals from the soil without replacing them. Is this true? It will be bad practices, but not contemporary agriculture in general. It's a stone phrase. Another small phrase: "Effective farming practices scratch the skin of the soil and poison the soil. Well, as a literary resource it may be, but as a technical rigor, it really puts my hair on top. Please, where do these statements come from? Do those who have written this really know the Catalan agrarian reality, know what our payees do, know what our technicians and scientists do, have asked the College of Agricultural Engineers, for example? Is this text what we are going to adopt today, with these contents? [[Pause.]] Well, it scares me. It is really feared that these paragraphs will be adopted without any rigour. But let us return to the objectives of the committee. In addition to following the government action, which has not been done, we had assigned tasks of the commission, which were: to follow up on the « summits organized by the Government, which could not be done, to follow up on the Government's measures in relation to the climate emergency, which could not be done in a month, to analyse the legislation that could hinder the fight against climate change, which has not been evaluated either. And there are two other points where something has been done. For example, the Committee of Experts on Climate Change – here, it has touched quite a bit – and gather information on the actions of society on this issue – which has also been touched, the point. With regard to the Committee of Experts on Climate Change, two major conclusions can be drawn: that carbon budgets are the key mechanism for planning and evaluating progress in this area, and that the Committee of Experts on Climate Change is not 100 per cent nominated and neither has the resources nor the budget to do its work. Therefore, if the committee of experts does not have resources, it is difficult for us to have rigorous, well-developed inventories and carbon budgets that will help us achieve the 2030 and 2050 goals. And, with regard to Catalan society, I would draw an important point: there is no serious communicative policy on climate change and the climate emergency. The need to convince society, not only those who are already convinced or those who are already in a certain predisposition to these issues, but everyone, to society as a whole is evident. We must convince ourselves of the need to take action against climate change, measures that we do not like. Despite all this, despite the growing sensitivity we can feel towards environmental issues, they are still minor issues and totally secondary issues. All you have to do is look at a newscast: how many minutes the newscast lasts, how many are dedicated to the environment and how many are dedicated to football, politics and other topics. I mean, they're really secondary, environmental issues. Let's not be fooled. It's been a while since he got brown in France with yellow vests because the price of fuel went up. Society can really seem to us to be aware of the environment and climate change, it is true; but, at the same time, that same society rejects frontally policies that may be necessary to curb this climate emergency, but that may disturb citizens' day-to-day lives. So, look, let's not give the communicative battle for gain, the awareness, because we have to keep working. If not, any policy would be done to fight the climate emergency..., we will meet with the misunderstanding of society. And I want to thank the attendees, Mrs Termes, Martin-Vide, Mrs Brunet, Tomàs Molina and the Extinction Rebellion movement, for the time they have devoted to us, despite the fact that it was a very short committee, and for making us all think with their approaches, because really the exhibitions have been quite level and have made us think. And thanks also to the lawyers and the technicians, who, despite all these haste, have put all their efforts to get to this plenary in time. And I want to put an end to my own thinking. I, like many of you here, am from that generation that grew up with Felix Rodríguez de la Fuente and Jacques Cousteau. And they helped us raise our awareness about environmental issues, about wildlife. Then I studied..., agronomic engineer specialized in environmental management, when there were no environmentalists yet. And I have worked in research, in urban landscape, in parks, in applying sustainable criteria in urban planning, in urban gardening. And now, as a Member, it turns out that I'm from IBEX, that I'm not anti-system, I'm not from the left, I'm not from the right... That's all right. You don't have to go with chanclas to be an ecologist, nor do you have to wear a strip and a straw hat to be paid for. I hope that in order to save the planet we do not have to dispense with people..., look like they see or think what they think, and we know how to listen to citizens, but also to technicians and our scientists, who have many, very good and very well qualified. Thank you very much and see you next time. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the word Mr Jordi Terrades. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.6.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, this week – just three days ago – five years ago of the Paris agreements, which established the bases of the fight against climate change, or the last bases of the fight against climate change. We also know that the evolution of climate change is much more worrying than was thought at the Paris summit. We can also see that few countries have updated their plans to reduce emissions of gases with winternacle effects for the next decade. It is also true that more than a hundred have been committed to achieving the year 2050, which is called carbon neutralization, that emissions are equal to the capacity of these gases in the wild. We welcome the European Union's agreements to increase the reduction of gas with winter effects by 2030, and we also welcome – because we believe it is important – the return to the Paris agreements by the United States with the presidency of Joe Biden. The climate change, and this is one of the conclusions they're going to vote on, is a phenomenon... I think there hasn't been any discussion, or there's very little discussion, it's a global phenomenon of catastrophic consequences. You're here to start using the climate event on a daily basis. Catalonia, therefore, is not alien to climate change and its effects. Catalonia, from our point of view – and so we expressed in the conclusions – cannot be a territory disconnected from other countries and regions, especially the Iberian peninsula and the Mediterranean basin, because the effects are quite similar throughout this area. We must face the challenge, from our point of view, in all levels of society, from the private to the productive. And public institutions, governments and parliaments, must facilitate and promote, from their political initiative, policies of mitigation and adaptation to climate change. What has the Catalan Administration done, therefore, from this point of view? We have the feeling that the conclusions that we will adopt and this debate that has taken place... it seems to me that Deputy Dominguez was talking about it... three sessions of this committee. Sometimes one has the feeling that it was intended to bring about at the end of Parliament's plenary session this follow-up of conclusions to try to justify policies that, from our point of view, have been a little erratic, almost non-action by the Government, these three years later. The 2017 summer saw the adoption of the Catalan Climate Change Law. We consider that we have advanced these three years, and that, in addition, there have been some incompliments. We don't have enough to celebrate the second climate change summit in Catalonia. Plus, one had the impression that it was a little Semi-Semi-Landish, counselor, there..., little debate, little public debate, what was claimed: we have to put on the agenda much more of all these debates. According to the Climate Change Law, the government should have already approved the Strategic Mark of Mitigation Reference. Just now the participatory process is beginning. They're wearing a couple of years late. In any case, welcome to the start of this participatory process. We approved, as a derivative of this law, the CO2 emission tax law on vehicles, but at the moment we keep it pending, has not yet been applied. We thought it should have been put in place by now. There is a failure to comply with the additional provisions of the same law, which tell us that the Government must bring to Parliament a law of ship emissions and another law – the tax law, in this sense – of gas emissions with winter effects. Neither one has reached Parliament. And that doesn't mean that these laws need to save more businesses, for example, or ships; in any case, we can introduce compensation measures to the law depending on whether the sector's actions are more or less correct. And the carbon assumptions. This was already difficult to introduce into the law, and above all the role and functions of the Committee of Experts on Climate Change. I believe that in some sector of the Council, Councillor, this of an independent committee of experts that makes proposals to the Government – that they will have to transfer them to Parliament for their approval – and that you make annual reports did not just like it at all. In the end, it was introduced, but precisely this House had to have dedicated it to the debate on carbon assumptions to approve the two subsequent five years. That didn't happen. We do not understand or share – and that is why we have made proposals in this sense in the resolutions, which have been approved – that we have not yet foreseen a budgetary endowment sufficient to meet their tasks. Importantissim: Carbon assumptions – I repeat again. Background: submit annual reports to Parliament because parliamentary groups can assess the government's performance in this case. We also have an unwarrantable delay – we were talking about it in the past Ple, now fifteen days ago – in the impulse of the energy transition to Catalonia, which, from our point of view, is one of the change levers of the product model we need. We found – nor will I fail to do so, because it is a well-known and well-recognized theme – that we are at Cua d'Espanya. Sometimes – and I repeat a statement that I have already made, since this same Faristol, a few days ago – one has the impression that certain government offices or councils have targeted the Nimby practices, and so it is difficult to move forward. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, I believe that there is not enough to declare the state of climate change. The statements are very good, but what we have to do is to bring forward policies the maximum consensus to address this phenomenon which is said to be climate change and its effects, which, from my point of view, already affect us in a very clear way and which are involving moments of climate emergence. We can't waste any more time. The impacts we are already patenting, and we need to be aware and aware of the magnitude of the transformations required by the Paris agreements. Transformations that the Catalan society, that the Parliament of Catalonia, that the Government of Catalonia, that people at individual level and businesses, the fabric of the country's production, have to face. Dr. Martín-Vide, who was also the coordinator of the Third Climate Change Report, appeared on the committee. Yesterday, by chance, I listened to an interview that I did at the last hour of late, and I think we can't agree more on some of the concepts that he distilled in that interview. He said climate change policies are already a matter of salvation, they are also an economic issue of the highest order. And, despite these reflections, sometimes a critical hair, which I have made around the little activity – I believe – of the government these three years, I return to affirm, on behalf of the parliamentary group, in this latest plenary, our commitment to work with the political forces of the Parliament, and to those who can emerge from the electoral process of February 14, with this objective and this commitment to adapt and mitigate the effects of the climate change in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.7.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, we have said this many times, but we want to repeat it, because we think it is obvious: we have lost a decade in struggle against the climate change. And this is the sad balance of the successes of the governments that have been in Catalonia for the last two years. The repte already has it all more than clear, it's decades ago that we have it all more than clear. In 1990, the Intergovernmental Panel of Experts on Climate Change issued its first report, alerting it to climate change and the anthropogenic origin of climate change. And in 1992, at the Earth Summit in Rio, the first targets were set. We were supposed to have reduced gas emissions by 20_per_cent from 1990 to 1990 and today we are 17_per_per_cent over 1990 emissions. This is the balance, in Catalonia, respects the fight against climate change: to have to reduce and to compromise our country as well as with the company's joint venture to reduce emissions by 20_per_cent to have increased them by 17_per_cent. And we think it's a sad balance, because there's evidence that we're still unable to untie the economic cycles of CO2 emissions, and so the situation is getting more critical. We do not discuss whether there will be energy transition in Catalonia; there will be energy transition in Catalonia, yes or yes. What we are discussing is whether we have institutions capable of preserving social cohesion in our country during the energy transition, capable of guaranteeing access to a secure energy sub-administration – which, of course, we are not able to guarantee or today – and capable of maintaining social cohesion, integration, through work, social equality, within the margins that allow us to make this transition without breaking our society. And the truth is that today we have to say that we are far more than ever to be able to guarantee this in Catalonia. Two years without installing renewable energies, two years denying the right of our generations and the generations that will come after a sustainable energy supply. The Climate Change Law has not been deployed, for which there has been so much propaganda; nor of the green taxation, which makes it possible, in this country, that it pollutes pay and remains at least responsible for the contamination it generates. And we don't even have the Energy Transition Law. In order not to have, we do not have nor counsel from Medi Ambient, because in Catalonia, unlike the rest of the European regions, we go further: we unpack the institutions that must be directors for the energy transition, in this country. During these last two years we have seen many debates in energy transition: the debate of the superilies in Barcelona, of the low-emission zones, of Madrid Central. We have had and have seen many television and radio chatter where we discussed public policies that pushed the rest of the administration. The honest question that we should ask ourselves is: what public policy of the Government of Catalonia have we debated during these last two years? About cap. And the fact is, in this Parliament, it's just a debate about the government's climate change failures, it's the only debate we've had in this Parliament for years. And we think it's a trend that I can put my mind to. Look, CO2 emissions are obviously the cause of climate change, but they have impacts beyond the same temperature changes. The first, which is obvious and that sometimes we mention it a little – and that is why we want to highlight it in the first place – is what has to do with the biodiversity of our country. In different years we have lost a part of the saving fauna of Catalonia: one of four specimens – of mammals, fish, reptiles, amphibians – have disappeared from Catalonia. Today there is half the wildlife that has been in our country for fifty years. And what is the debate in the Parliament of Catalonia? If we retaliate the sources of CO2 tax to the Natural Heritage Agency that we have just created to have a leading instrument in biodiversity conservation, in a country where we have lost a quarter of the wildlife, half of the aquatic fauna of our country and a third of the agricultural fauna of our country. The debate is whether we detail the taxation that must allow us to deploy the Agency of Nature in our country. And the debate is, still today, about which obsolete infrastructures we prioritize for the immediate future of Catalonia. We believe that it is obvious that there is a dissociation between what we continue to debate and what we continue to push like public policies and the reptiles that we have, like the country, forward. Who else do we have to highlight? He managed it with resources, that of being able to rebuild Catalonia the hierarchy that they taught us all and everyone at school: the one that first comes back, then is reused and then is recycled. And we've lost a decade. Today is recycling in Catalonia roughly 40_per_cent, the same as it is years ago, practically the same; a decade lost in such a central element about how we manage resources in our society. A decade ago, one of every three packages was reusable; today, one of every one, half of it, because we walk past it, as if the management of resources had nothing to do with the emergency situation we live in. We know that we have a failed residue law, a first-year-old residue law, a bank account law, and we know that it's a failed law. And it's been three years and there's no new law on resources in the Catalonian Parliament. And that's an obvious leave of office. [[Addressing the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.]] Don't say no, it's obvious. You committed yourself, as a counselor, to driving a 21st century law of residuals for Catalonia. And today, which is the last plenary of the legislature, we don't have a new law of residue, and this is a flagrant failure. We know, moreover, not only that it has ecological effects and effects on the management of resources that are finite, but that it also has effects on public salvation. Now, we know that... you've been studying to certify that there are traces of plastic in the urine, because the plastic migrates food to our bloodstream, and that has endocrine effects and effects on the immune system. And it's been years since the government's been set up on a leave of office against the scientific evidence accumulated in this country. And we need a government that works for a circular management for resources. First: reduce. And we have always said this: it is necessary to transfer citizen responsibility to the responsibility of the producers of residues in this country. The polluter pays, and the one who generates packaging and waste must be held responsible throughout his life cycle. We have not prohibited the use of a_us and the elements of a_us, which are replaceable; we have not done so. We have not encouraged eco-dissense to reduce the generation of residues in the first place; we have not done so. Second: reuse. That's enough, isn't it? , that the management of waste remains the assets of whom it is negotiated. We want a system of deposit, return and return that can be implemented in Catalonia and that makes reuse what it is: the second slipped into the hierarchy of resources. And that we bet for a circular economy: that which is residual for many companies are resources for other companies. And, therefore, we have to make industrial symbiosis plans that allow us to close the circle of the economy and that we do not have a linear use of resources. That we then need to continue to install, for example, incinerators in this country. That's enough, isn't it? There is no way that the only policy of resources in this country will continue to think of nine incinerators and we will start in this country. In short, we have lost two years, truly the two most important years, because responsibility expands every year that happens, and today's issues condition more than the past twenty years the future of this country. And, therefore, responsibility is always broadened. We have lost two years: two years without renewable energies, without defending the biodiversity of this country, without reducing the consumption of resources, without valiant policies of mobility and without making any _sun step forward...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.9.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.10.0	...in all the places we have with the country. The only thing we ask is that from the 14th of February we can have a government willing to recover the lost time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Ms Nattalia Sánchez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.12.0	Good morning again, deputies, deputies. Many of the things that contain these conclusions have been said. And indeed, the parliamentary groups have brought our visit to these conclusions, far beyond the contributions of our fellow Members. From our perspective, the exploitation of natural resources by capitalism and the prioritization of individual benefits in the face of collective benefits have brought us to the current socio-environmental crisis. It's important to put it on the table. The crisis, the climate emergency we're living in, it's not random, it's not an inevitable disaster. The alarm clocks for the unlimited economic growth have happened since more than five decades ago, without governments having decisive political decisions to reverse the situation worldwide. The 1972 Meadows report of the Club de Roma predicts that economic growth could not continue indefinitely because of the limited availability of natural resources, concretely oil. Numbers are organizations and activists, many of whom have been murdered by the world, who have continuously denounced imperialism as one of the causes of the destruction of nature in a global crisis of the system that accentuates differences between countries and between social classes. At international level, both the Brundtland report and the Rio Summit are a first attempt, insufficient, to lay the groundwork for sustainable development that stifles climate change and the predation of natural resources. If the European Union has well specified its willingness to fight the climate crisis with the agreements of Kyoto and Paris, the reality is that the marc agreements are unravelled and prolonged continuously, they are not binding and remain in the hands of the good will of the states. And I think this is an important issue: non-binding and leaving international agreements on climate change in the hands of good government intentions, as it has also passed to the Spanish State, which has not developed any type of environmental policy beyond some declarations of principles, which accumulates international sanctions for non-compliance with objectives and deadlines in various areas, and continues to rely on an urban model that preys on territories and resources, as it also passes to the Catalan countries. In Catalonia we have taken some step forward, such as the Law of Climate Change, or the Law of Residues to the Balearic Islands. Thus, the capitalist economy goes on forever, and these days, if we talk about life or capital, it is obvious that it resonates with us. In this legislature, the Government of the Generality has had to manage, among many other things, three very important events: a large forest fire at the Ribera d'Ebre; the temporary Gloria, with heavy impacts on the coast and the Ebre Delta, concretely, and a global pandemic. Great forest fires of sisena generation; great storms, to which we have not been accustomed, and a worldwide pandemic as a consequence also of the predation in the territory and the trinxation of biodiversity. A lot of things have been said. We, in these conclusions, from the CUP have brought to us what we have been complaining about for some time and what we have denounced. The most repeated words in relation to the action of government, and therefore to the action of the Department of Territories and Sustainability, and, therefore, of the Councillor Damia Calvet..., are the most repeated words: "settlement and" incompliment. Entanglements for what it does to the application of the Climate Change Law – it is no longer a pioneer, because, if it doesn't apply, it's nothing, it's a paper – in relation to not deploying all the laws that there is the compromise that they make, from the energy transition to the defense of biodiversity. As it's not all bad, we'd like to be able, in this late Ple, to congratulate Mr. Calvet as well. And we congratulate him on the recent publication of the report on the state of nature, a tool that will surely be very useful to us in safeguarding nature. And we also want to talk about this. If one of the main causes of the loss of biodiversity highlighted by the report is that of changes in land use and fragmentation of the territory, such as the fact that from its advice they continue to push projects that run counter to the preservation of the natural environment, such as Barcelona World, or as perlling yes or yes the C-32 from Blanes to Lloret, or the development of a multitude of urban master plans such as Gran Via a l'Hospitalet? All the projects, I remember, more and more, have been rejected..., the judgments have fallen. We claim that these scientific data published in the state of nature report are valuable and have an impact on the action of governments. We also ask the future government of the Generality. We continue that, between capital and life, we sort out life.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.13.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.14.0	I'm done. And, therefore, let us hope that this report, which has been..., with insufficient work – I conclude, President –, may be the first stone for a comprehensive work of the Parliament of Catalonia to which the governments of the future pay attention, and do not fail to do so as Mr Calvet does with the motions approved by the Parliament for which, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.16.0	...to the incineration projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word of the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, other spokespersons have said: this committee..., it agreed, its creation, just a year ago. And since its creation until today, there has been one practical session of this. A work plan with more than a forty petitions of appearance has been granted in part – in part, because he was aware of the limited time that there was to develop the work of the commission. But there was only one session, with five appearances, and, besides, very quickly, huh? because the legislature was running out. And so, so, I think it's been a while, the work that this committee has been able to do. But, well, it's a follow-up commission and its main function is to follow-up government action. And, in this sense – and I don't know if this serves to minimize the fact that there are no sessions of this commission – so the government has not been too active in all the commitments it had or with the commitments imposed on it by the same Climate Change Law. And, in this sense, the conclusions contain these incompliments or this lack of action on the part of the Government. I don't mean... I won't do a rest of these now, but I don't mean we're okay with everything either. For example, one of the incompliments – and in this case, we could celebrate it, because we do not share it – is the fact that the three taxes provided for by the Climate Change Law have not been set aside. As this was our main discrepancy with the Climate Change Law, so, we, in some way, prefer that these taxes have not been imposed, which does not mean that there has been no incompliment on the part of the Government. For example, it didn't work out – it all started just now, but it had to be March 2019 – the strategic Mark of Mitigation Reference. Other aspects, too, which I believe are important: the Committee of Experts, which has certain functions entrusted to it, does not have the presupposition to be able to carry out these functions. And, therefore, it would also be important that it be corrected. The commitment of the Energy Transition Law has not materialized either. And in this sense, say that, as much as we share the objective of decarbonization, what we do not share is what we are used to accompanying this objective, which is that of denuclearization. I am saying this because basically – and here we also show a discrepancy with regard to the conclusions, and obviously in the votes we will make it clear – so, if what we need to look for is this energy transition to avoid emissions of gases with winter effects, there is no feeling that we do not consider the role of nuclear energy, that it does not generate emissions of gases with winter effects, and therefore can contribute in a very important way to the reduction of emissions of gases. The law of sustainable agriculture, the law of biodiversity, the law of climate protection bases, the Social Table of Climate Change – which is not yet in place and which also has a foundational role – is not covered by the rules for the labelling of building materials, nor have the emission reduction objectives been introduced. Yes, the climate statement was made on May 2009, which served after the end of the year to approve the new Renewable Energy Decree; certainly, of which we would like – obviously in this legislature we are no longer in time – to make an assessment of what its impact is and how it works, this decree, to try to improve it and, therefore, to promote the growth of renewable energy infrastructures. It's also before, the new law of residue that the government had bought itself is not there, and the incompletion of motions. That is to say, well, we had to follow up on government action, and, as far as government action is concerned, so fortunately, the work of the committee has also been reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Civit has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.20.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President, Counsellor, Chairman of the Commission and all the members who have participated in this Climate Emergency Commission. And also to welcome Mr. Vilanova, who is a historian of ecology. I hope you've come here today with xancles, because it's the one that plays like a good ecologist; if you don't... I think it's now I could take that title. And to Mr. Pep Puig, too, who was the one who promoted this commission and who is a person who normally went with a ball bar, but I don't know why he went with a ball bar, if you're not paid. So I think I should stop walking with a ball bar. And you, Mr. Vilanova, so... with the xancles, that's what I'd play. And I also take advantage... of Congresswoman Sánchez, who neglected a storm, temporary Dana, who left six dead, mainly in my region, in the Conca de Barberà, because the situation was complex. Five years ago, the first time I intervened here in this faristol was precisely to talk about climate change. I will leave Parliament five years later, not talking about climate change, but about climate emergence. They've changed things, but not enough. Today, when I came here to Barcelona, I was going through the round – because, unfortunately, as we have no public transport to do, I have to come by car to complete the timetables, and not by train, as I would like – and I saw at the port of Barcelona a Grimaldi ferri that was carrying to the port and that put the hybrid engine and zero emissions to the port. Interestingly, at the port, zero emissions, but today, precisely, in Barcelona, we have higher emission levels than we did a year ago. They are those things that are curious enough to happen to us, because we have lowered consumption – maybe we don't go to bars and restaurants or make so many touristic trips – but, curiously, consumption does not stop, consumption of materials and, logically, consumption of energy. And it's those things that we have to start taking into account. Before the deputy of the commons spoke of the report that was presented, made for the Department of Territories and Sustainability and the CREAF, on the reduction of saved species. Taking into account that everyone is complaining that every day there are more simple... but in the last fifty years 60 percent of the specimens of these species have disappeared. But let's talk about what it's about, which is today's climate emergency. Tony Seba, who surely some don't know – Mr. Puig does know him – who is a futuresman of Silicon Valley, and at the moment, all the predictions he has made have uncertain them, says that by 2030 all the energies that are not renewable will be dead and buried. That's what you're waiting for. It also says that the current car manufacturing model will also disappear, because everything will be autonomous – therefore, shared – and, more importantly, electrical. And you also expect that the consumption of meat..., the current model, with intensive rambling, will also disappear, which I celebrate, because you say that, according to the studies and according to the figures, we go to a model of consumption of vegetable meat. So it still seems that it could be oil in a light. But no: the consumption of coal, for example, in the 21st century has increased by 60_per_cent; 2020 respects the year 2000, by 60_per_cent. There are still plans to build thousands of coal plants to produce electricity. We're still talking about the promotion of the 19th century Industrial Revolution in the 21st century. And there was also some other Member, so the European Union's agreements to push the emissions down to 55_per_cent, but it should be remembered that Greenpeace, for example, already warned that this 55_per_cent will not be complete, but will become 50_per_cent. And Greenpeace and many other NGOs, for sure, claimed that this would actually be a 65_per_cent, because, if not, we would not reverse neither 1.5 nor 2 degrees. Before Congressman Ferro also mentioned it, didn't he? I mean, it's not just what we're doing today, but we've got an inertia so bad that if we don't start reversing it, we'll still take a lot of trouble like the planet, like society, and even, if someone looks at it in a capitalist economic model, we'll take it economically. The model of growth will be – with forgiveness of the expression –, as is said to my people, a stubborn one. If you don't know what I'm saying, I'll give you a gift... I have a lexicon dictionary from my region, which I think... but that means we'll bite from teeth to the ground; we'll bite from teeth to the ground like society, like the economy. So let's start changing everything. And that also implies the theme of the construction model and the tourism model we want to practice. With the councillor, I remember that the first meeting we had was in Palau, the previous legislature, precisely, about this model, that we were in opposition..., about the model of Hard Rock. I don't know if you should remember a finding we had with President Puigdemont, with Vice President Junqueras, I think there was his predecessor, Councilman Rull, and you, too, and we talked about this model. Clearly, it's up to us to change this model, certainly, but also the construction model. In 2050, 80 per cent of the "lives that exist in the European Union will still be there, but there is only 20 per cent that will not be there. And, of course, we have to change the model of construction, the model of urbanism, in which buildings make energy not of zero consumption, but they make positive energy. It's up to us to do these buildings this way, but it's up to us to refer to this 80_per_cent already built. Because, for every energy rehabilitation there is, there are studies that estimate that it goes between an 8 or so and a tip of an 18_per_cent of new jobs per million euros invested. Let's have it. And that we can do, energetically, thanks to photovoltaics, especially, but not just with photovoltaics. Solar panels have grown a lot– a lot– in their expansion and in their technology. They have a 22_per_cent learning curve. What does that mean? It means that, every time you double your ability, expenses fall by 22_per_cent. I don't know if they know Moore's famous law with the theme of microxips, which says that every split_mess is due to capacity; so exactly the same with photovoltaics, which is Swanson's law. Clearly, five years ago, electricity produced in our home, in our homes, is cheaper than the fact that we connect to the network. Let me introduce you, because, more than that, oligopolises will come that promote fossil fuel or nuclear fuel. And it's not just that, the one we have to start changing – that too. Because, if we're going to talk about energy, the solar photovoltaics have dropped a 89 of their expenses in the last two years, and the Earth's wind, a 70_per_cent. Therefore, speaking in silver, Catalonia lacks many more solar plates and much more windmills. Here we are, you like who you like and you don't like who you don't like. Because we have at international level the photovoltaic energy, the electrical energy..., is forty_dollars, the photovoltaic; the terrestrial wind, forty-one; the combined cycle gas, fifty-six; the geothermal, ninety-one; the carbon, one hundred_new_dollars; the thermal solar, one hundred_forty-one, and the nuclear, one hundred_five. It seems to me that capitalism will even kill nuclear; welcome is capitalism, in this case. So... photovoltaics for the teulades and to electrify the whole economy. But, meanwhile, the private vehicle, this one that we have all used to come here to Parliament, to come to Barcelona, or the one that makes the bulk of the citizenry serve for anything else..., the 15_percent of the final energy consumption sees the private vehicle. And, if we extrapolate it all, road transport, road mobility, is 77_per_cent; 77_per_cent that, if we transfer it to the energy model, we are talking practically 100_per_cent of the energy that moves this 77_per_cent of our mobility is from outside– is from outside–, of countries that are generally not democracies, of countries that carry it from outside and that, moreover, have all these effects of climate change. But not only from here, the issues come: from all the topic of the ramaderia, the intensive – the extensive not, the intensive – but also from the topic of the mouthpieces. I know it's hard because Congressman Ferro has already advanced me on some of the different issues, but on the subject... because he knows that with you and Mr. Cid we also talk a lot about these areas. But, of course, we must bear in mind that our mouthpieces, with half a factor of 25 or higher of gas with winternacle effects respect CO2..., our mouthpieces generate a lot of half, and this half takes the whole life of this mouthpiece... But we are talking about that organic matter that is converted into half can be for thirty years that are half. And, of course, incinerators are not the solution. The solution is model change, paradigm change, go to a zero residue model. A model, as has been said before, of ecodisseny, in which you of good principles look at things precisely because the circular economy is able to apply. Let us not go to that: "What do we do now, that we have this quantity of...? "Of these tones, what in fem? So we don't know what to do with it, so we bury them or incinerate them, and that's not the solution. Because we have the obligation to apply the principles of the circular economy to both material and energy products. With material themes, for example, the Low Countries have an obligation to calculate the environmental impact of materials. And before I talked about the intensive storage, I'm sure. Because it touches us more pagesia, much more pagesia than there is; it touches us much more forest management, but less intensive rowing, which, let's remember, is the main cause of deforestation in the world. We're deforesting to feed animals. More land for humans and less for feeding farm animals. More green and less meat. Land to feed people and non-vehicles. And if we don't do anything, then what happens to us? Two degrees means that it will reduce rainfall by more than 4_per_cent in the Mediterranean, and that means more extreme water, less water for everyone, less water for the pantans. Floods on the coast will pass from every 50 years to every 15 years, and from 3.85 to 4_metres – goodbye to the Maresme Coast train. And here in the Mediterranean will be four to eight times the impact that it can have on northern Europe. I, alert, that we already assume that dichotomy is if it's severe the extreme. We have a thin picture and we have to start making these changes, and we have to do it now. Different NGOs at the state level have made a manifesto, "The chromeless, calling for a change of energy, social, democratic model and no rotating doors like the PP and the PSOE. And I finished, President. We have on the table, as Tony Seba points out, the possibility that we are experiencing a technological disruption. I'm asking them for a mental disorder that isn't just tech, but it's also political. At the next legislature, the revolutionaries were disrupted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] Following in the order that corresponds, in order to finish this return has the word the deputy Josep Puig, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.22.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... Benvingut, company Vilanova. Allow me, above all, to thank all the people who have made the creation and the functioning possible, even though it has been short, of the Climate Emergencies Monitoring Commission, and also the five people who appeared there to provide it with information and those who, without appearing there, also provided documentation. Many thanks to all of them. The way to get here has been long and goes all the way. Let me give you a little history. It all began in the year 79, at the First World Climate Conference, forty-one years ago. New years after this date, the Canvis Atmospheric Conference in Toronto was organized, where the need to develop a global abst convention to protect the climate was discussed publicly for the first time. This same year, the United Nations, at its general assembly, at its 45/53 session, decided and recognized that climate change was a primary concern of humanity, that climate is an essential good for life on Earth. Subsequently, the World Meteorological Organization and the same programme of the United Nations Entourage proposed the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which was the year 90 when the first report was published, already makes a stack of years. This same year, the 90th, there was the Second Climate Conference, where a call was made to start talks in the international market in order to be able to face the climate change, which was already manifesting. It was the year 92 when the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee of the United Nations gave to know the text of the convenient mark that would be adopted at the Earth Summit at the world environmental and development conference in Rio de Janeiro. At the time that the official summit was held in Rio de Janeiro, the International Forum of NGOs was also held, in which forty international treaties alternated with the officials, between them one of climate change and one of energy, which have guided the action of non-governmental organizations since then. This agreement came into force on March 21, 94, 20 years ago. And it wasn't until five years ago that the Paris agreements were adopted, which is what we have in force today and which all countries must complete. The challenge that we have with global and local society is enormous, and to do so requires a great dose of imagination and creativity, qualities that humanity has always had, but which has often left behind. This challenge involves everyone, taking responsibility for all of us, starting with public administrations, going through all the business fabric and ending up with all the people who conform to society. No one can excuse himself for not acting, therefore, to abandon the cream of fossil materials to dispose of energy and to abandon the extractive industrialist, productionist, consumerist economy, which already affects today and will affect us even more years that will come. And doing so requires individual and collective compromises. It is precisely what the United Nations Organization asks, which a few days ago made public the Gap Report 2020. And allow me to extrude a few sentences from this report that just a few days ago came forward. He says: "Despite a brief decline in carbon dioxide emissions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the world is still heading towards a temperature rise of more than three degrees in this century, far beyond the Paris accords to limit global warming much below two degrees and pursue the 1.5 degree target. Notwithstanding this, a green recovery of the pandemic may reduce to around 25_percent of projected winter-effect emissions by 2030 and place emissions in a total of forty-four gigatons of CO2 equivalent, which would be within the range of emissions that give 66_percent chance to maintain temperatures below two degrees– only 66_percent chance. Governments must strive to implement green recovery and reinforce their promises before the next climate summit in the year 21. At the time of finalization of the report, 126 countries, covering 51 per cent of global gas emissions with winter effects, have adopted or announced or are considered to be zero emissions targets. And if the United States of America adopts this objective, as suggested by the Biden-Harris plate, the percentage increase to 63_per_cent. While the objectives are encouraging, there is a great discrepancy between the ambition of the objectives and the inadequate level of contributions determined at national level, which is what has been communicated each state in the agreement, to the secretary of the agreement. More countries need to develop long-term strategies consistent with the Paris Accord, and the contributions determined at national level new and up-to-date must be consistent with zero emission targets. Stronger action must include facilitating, encouraging and obliging changes in consumer behaviour on the part of both the private and people sectors. When a consumer-based comptability is used, it is seen that around two thirds of global emissions are related to private households. The mobility, residential and food sectors contribute around 20_percent of life-style emissions. Governments must allow and encourage consumers to avoid carbon-intensive forms of consumption, and possible actions include replacing short-distance domestic flights by rail, incentivities and infrastructure to allow bicycle and shared car movements, improving the energy efficiency of housing – this is an assignment in which a lot of work needs to be done –, facilitating the connection of renewable generation by suppliers of web and policy services to reduce food mismanagement. Finally, I want to remind you that combined emissions of only the richest 1_per_cent of the world's population represent more than twice the emissions of the poorest 50_per_cent. The elites will have to reduce their farts in a factor of at least 30 in order to stay on line with the Paris Accord objectives. That's the repte. That is why our group was synthetic in conclusions and recommendations. We made three conclusions: to defossilize the economy, to recarbonise the soils – to convert them into CO2 absorbers – and to seek the complicity of the society; and to give recommendations based on which it was discussed with the experts, who went from speeding up the tasks of the committee of experts to the need to create a climate-emergency relationship that favored changes in the behaviour of the whole society. I hope and wish that in the next parliamentary term the Parliament and the Government will be at the height of what we have before us, if we want to live in a world where the temperature is good. Many thanks to all the people who made it possible, and just remember that we have a great job to do. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over here. As you know, we will vote on this point with the rest of the questions dealt with in this House. [[Report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Safety in the Petrochemical Sector]] [[260-00004/12]] Let us now turn to the agenda item, which corresponds to the debate on the report and conclusions of the Committee on the Safety of the Petrochemical Sector. And following the same format as the debate that we have just done, in the first place will have the word, to present the work done to the committee, its chairman, is to say, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.24.0	President, deputies, deputies, good morning. The 14th generation of this year a strong explosion originated in a reactor and also in a tank of ethyl oxide to the Iqoxe company of the petrochemical sector of Tarragona caused the death of three people and left them with a set of wounds. Let's remember that one of the dead people was a view of Torreforta's barrio. The respect, the record of victims, their family members, friends and fellow workers, have presided over all and each of the seventeen sessions of the study committee. It cannot be overstated that Iqoxe's accident marked a turning point in the debate on the safety of the chemical industry and in the role of the Administration as guarantor, too, of this safety. That is why the creation of this committee of study was not an investigation into the accident and its responsibilities; this must be done by the courts and the judicial process that has opened it. We wanted, in this committee, to have a work plan that allows us to know the current situation of industrial security with a future prevention vision, with clear and well-known protocols for action throughout the population, to address the relationship of petrochemistry with the territory and to put it in relation to the 2030 objectives. We organized the appearances in three blocks, to say the least, even though there was some barricade. In the first place, therefore, also know the analysis of the causes and consequences of the accident: the management of the emergency, the reaction of the company, environmental effects, analysis of the facts, proposals for the future, requests and contributions by way of veins, veins, business committee, trade union organizations, mayors and mayors. In another block we knew the reports prepared or commissioned for the Generality. For one band, that of the president; for the other, an external audit in charge of the Department of Enterprise and Coneixement. Very interesting. Somehow, he also came to us to say that there were many things that could not be known, among other things, for the state in which everything had remained and for the very secret of summary. Also in this block we were able to know the report of the Chemical Institute of Sarria, university experts, epidemiologists and the Air Quality Table, and, lastly, those responsible for the different councils, were advisers or administrative officials. In short, needed such as transparency, coordination between administrations, inversion in security, protection of the environment, the management of the emergence and the relationship with Camp de Tarragona, they see that all the recommendations and conclusions that this committee has addressed and that today the different parliamentary groups will bring here. The work of the commission, like the lives of all during these months, has also been affected by the Covid-19. We were going to have to suspend the commissions for a while, but I want to tell them that we were the first ones to get back to work. There was a shared commitment to raise Parliament's plenary before finalizing the legislature conclusions and recommendations, and so it could be. And it took place in a climate of collaboration and cooperation. And like I don't want to expand, because the work is basically from parliamentary groups, I want to leave the thanks at the end. I want to thank, first of all, the confidence of the groups towards the presidency of the Commission. They made it easy for me. To the deputies Campdepadrós and Ferran Civit, as to the company of Mesa, and to the rest of the deputies and deputies. A la Raquel Sans, la Teresa Pallarès, el Matías Alonso, la Rosa Maria Ibarra, avans en Carles Castillo, Yolanda López, Vidal Aragonés i Alejandro Fernández. To thank all people who on behalf of their own, of associations, of administrations, academic and scientific institutions, veins, veins, workers, unions, mayors and mayors, experts..., their appearances, their time, their scientific knowledge or the reality of the territory, and also all their contributions. I, finally, regret two things. For a band, it could not have completed the commitment of this commission to perform some sessions at Camp Tarragona. Covid stopped us. But we see and see that we want to honour our commitment, and, in fact, there is a lot of pressure left on us to do it, and we will all do it together. To regret the attitude of the company, more quickly of those responsible for this, that they did not want to meet the requirements of nominal appearances of those directly responsible for this. It is a pity that we do not understand that we did not judge; simply, we wanted to contribute better to security and the petrochemical industry in the territory. Last but not least, sincere thanks to all the members of the committee and to the invaluable help of the late Antoni Bayona and manager Frederic Solé. They've had a lot of patience. And to all, thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The parliamentary groups and sub-groups continue to intervene, starting, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, for Mr Matías Alonso. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to remind you of the victims of the terrible accident that occurred at the late 14th generation in the facilities of the Chemical Industries of Ethylene Oxide, S.A., Iqoxe, at the southern polygon of the Tarragona petrochemical. I want to express once again the condolences and solidarity of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens and I believe that from all the Parliament to the families, friends and companions of Óscar Saladíé and Óscar Atance, the two workers who lost their lives as a result of the explosion of the R3131 reactor, and Sergio Millán, the sight of Torreforta who died inside his house because of the catastrophic impact of a large half-piece of the reactor. And I also want to show solidarity and support to all the wounded and their families, and to the victims of this terrible accident. I've never been through so much again. The Commission for the Study of the Safety of the Petrochemical Sector in Catalonia was set up by resolution of this Parliament in full at the request of all parliamentary groups and sub-groups. It is true that I myself and the spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Roldán, announced that we would push a commission of inquiry into the Iqoxe accident of the 14th generation, but before effecting the request reached unanimous agreement to push the commission of study. We are convinced that the format of the commission and the decision to study at the research site were uncertain. The objectives set out in the Commission's work plan have made this workable and, despite the pandemic situation we are experiencing and the progress of the end of the current parliamentary term, it has been possible to finish the work and get to work on behalf of all the parliamentary groups, carried out by the Subgroup of the People's Party, the conclusions and recommendations, which were approved by the Commission on Tuesday 1 December. The terrible explosion of the 14th generation shocked the city of Camp de Tarragona, the veins of the laying barrels of the city of Tarragona, especially those of Bonavista and Torreforta, and a good part of the city of all Catalonia. The visit of the citizens, who have been living together with the installations of the petrochemicals of Tarragona, to the two polygons of petrochemicals, changed radically from the explosion of the reactor R3131. There's been talk of a paradigm shift. This really is what this terrible accident has been, meaning the hardest of the chemical industry in Tarragona: a paradigm shift in the perception of the risks associated with this industry by the conjunction of the citizens of Tarragona and, by extension, of all Catalonia. After the explosion and on repeated occasions we had the opportunity to prove to what extent this terrible explosion struck the soul of many Tarragonans and generated levels of mistrust towards industry and administration and the civil protection system, which were unthinkable before the explosion. We knew from the past that it was impossible to escape the exact causes of this terrible accident. This, the truth of the facts and the determination of the causes that triggered the explosion, was not the object of the study committee. The main object was precisely the study of the security of the petrochemical industry sector in Catalonia, and more concretely the functioning of the civil protection system collected in the external security plans. After comparing the information published in relation to the response of the civil protection system that conforms to the Special External Emergencies Platform of the Chemical Sector of Catalonia, the Plaseqcat, with the appearances to the commission of those responsible for its application, it was found that there were dysfunctions that tarragonans who see or work in the vicinity of the petrochemical polygons perceived with concern and alarm. The alarm and the disconcert they passed on to us after the terrible explosion had in good measure the origin in the discoordination and confusion in the Plaseqcat application. Some of the people who have radically changed their eyes to what they see in the chemical industry that they have been living with for decades. We've already said the paradigm shift. One of the questions that arose from the first days after the accident was the improvement of the Special External Emergencies Plate of the chemical sector, and in the case of the polygons of Tarragona, to have a specific plate, to recover the Plaseqta, the Special External Emergencies Plate of the chemical sector in Tarragona. This demand, generalised force to Tarragona, has given step to Plaseqta, but we must say that we are concerned about the procedure followed for the government to elaborate it. Plaseqcat did not work well on the 14th generation, and the new Plaseqta has been developed without counting on the collaboration and participation of various interested agents, such as now trade unions and associations. That's why we have been urging the government from Citizens to make a thorough review of Plaseqcat and Plaseqta, with the collaboration and participation of local corporations, representatives of the sector's workers, associations and associations of associations of vehicles and environmental defence entities, and subtend these external security plans to ongoing review processes, in collaboration with the same actors and the Department of Interior, through a specific task force. We also urge the Government of the Generality to ask the Government of Spain to speed up the transposition of Directive 2018/1972, the European Parliament and the Council, for which the European Code of Electronic Communications is established, so that the public alert service based on the broadcasting cell technology is improved, so that mobile telephone operators can send compartmentalized emergence alert messages to areas that simultaneously reach all mobiles located in the geographical areas where the emergence is produced. These, by way of example, are due to Ciutadans' proposals in the area of the management of emergencies and approved by the committee at the meeting of '1 December. In other words, most of the conclusions and recommendations put forward by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group in the areas of security and emergency management have been supported by the majority in the committee itself. I think we should congratulate ourselves on the fact that the committee has reached a very broad consensus on the conclusions and recommendations that this House will adopt today. Since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we have to say, even though we do not agree with 100% of the conclusions and recommendations included in the final report that is submitted to the full vote today, our women because they have been approved by the committee with the weighted vote, that is, taking into account the actual distribution of lists of each of the parliamentary groups in this plenary. That is why we also ask and hope that the report will be fully taken over by all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, because it is the result of the Commission's work. I would, of course, like to thank the members of the committee, the members of the Bureau of the committee, all the spokespersons, the reader and the manager, the technical services of the Parliament, for the support and efficiency in the development of the various telematic sessions that we have had. I would also like to reiterate my thanks to all those who have participated in the committee. But I have to say that among the more than thirty respondents who have participated in the committee, we have not had the opportunity to listen and ask the most representatives of the Iqoxe company, despite the fact that it was explicitly asked to attend. Neither the president of Cristian Lay Industrial Group, the entrepreneur Ricardo Leal, majoritarian owners of Iqoxe, nor Mr. José Luis Morlanes, CEO of the company, have wanted to compare before the commission. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we can hear the reticence to compare for the judicial situation, but especially Mr Leal has lost a good opportunity to explain in his parliamentary office the abst of his compromise with Tarragona and the maintenance of industrial activity and investment to Iqoxe installations in the southern polygon. Before I complete my intervention, the memory that the eyes, from the worry and anxiety generated by the explosion, ask relatively little: security, information and transparency. I take the words of Mrs. María Dolores Gutiérrez, President of the Association of Veíns de Bonavista, and I repeat them as the main theme of these conclusions and recommendations that will be approved today for Parliament's plenary: security, information and transparency; industrial, labour, environmental and civic security. An objective that must be shared by the Government of the Generality and the chemical sector of Catalonia, some main actors who must make information and transparency the best they can to regain the confidence of the citizenry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the words of Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.28.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, would like to start having a record for the three fatal victims and their families of the tragic accident of the Iqoxe business, and also for injured and affected people. « Nothing much more serious happened because an angel happened to us, because we were lucky. This phrase is from the president of the Association of Veíns de Bonavista and forms part of the appearance that he made jointly with the president of the Federation of Veíns de Llevant and the representative of the Federation of Veíns Associacions Veínals de Tarragona to the Commission of Study of the Security of the Petrochemical Sector. This phrase backs up quite a bit of the feeling of the Tarragona veins that lived up to the explosion of the reactor at the Iqoxe plant, which produced, as I said to the engineer, three dead, various wounds and much material damage. Undoubtedly, Iqoxe's accident marked a turning point for its characteristics and its tragic consequences. The fact that the explosion caused not only the death of two workers of the left plant, but also that of a Torreforta road that was more than two kilometres away from the company, raises the debate on the safety of the petrochemical industry, which exceeds the considerations of environmental affectation and contamination, and especially on the confidence in the Administration to ensure safety. The committee of study has fixed how to arrive at conclusions that are further than what caused the accident of Iqoxe and that was its trigger; it wanted to have a long look at the better of the fit of the chemical industry to the territory. From the Socialists and Units Group to Advance, at no time do we question the existence of the chemical industry at Camp Tarragona, we know that it has been and we hope that it will continue to be an economic engine of our communities. But precisely because we know that the Camp of Tarragona cannot and does not want to dispense with this type of industry is why we think we need to look for the formulas so that chemical production is not to be countered to the safety and salvation of people. We want chemistry, but we also want security, clean air and water and uncontaminated land. And we also want quality employment, with well-trained and well-paid workers and workers. We are concerned about some practices that, while we know that they are not majorities, can have very hard repercussions on plant activity and on the citizenry. We are convinced that if things are done well, if we move forward in the implementation of more and better measures of security, of more specialized training, of production processes that use net energies like green hydrogen, the petrochemical industry of Tarragona will be more competitive and the impact on the life of the veins and veins and also their perception will be more positive. We know that it is advancing, and very much, in the investigation and in the search for these elements of security and net production that I referred to earlier. In this sense, I believe that we must put into value the work done by the University of Rovira and Virgili, a promoter of projects as interesting as the Green Hydrogen Platform, intimately linked to the future of the petrochemical industry, but which, in the sense of doubt, has to become a country project. And in all this process of improvement, there's a paper on the administration. If anything has manifested this accident is that the Administration, in this case the Government of the Generality, which was competent to do so, was not on the rise. And he wasn't on the rise because he failed before the accident, when it happened and then. Why do we say he failed before? So here we can point out two aspects: one is work, and the other is environmental. From the point of view of work, we are all clear that for a good functioning of the industry, especially chemistry, there are trained and expert workers and workers; there are adequate workloads, and that the Administration has the means to control and ensure that this is the case. And if anything happened to manifest itself in this case, it is that the Labour Inspectorate had no effect on controlling chemical industrial activity; and this is one of the best proposals that all groups have agreed to. But this problem is not new, trade union organizations are already giving it up for some time. Therefore, it would be good for the government to listen to those who have the knowledge of daily work in the different spheres and who know who are the problems that are produced and that can be produced. Also, when we hear it, the government has failed – and fails – from the point of view of environmental control. And, in this sense, the delay in approving self-protection plans, which can leave in a species of managed businesses, worries us force. But we are also concerned that, as our fellow experts have told us, not all volatile compounds that have severe effects on people's health are mean and controlled, that emission levels cannot be controlled when there is a tip in front of an accident or incident. Therefore, one of the important aspects of improvement must be the improvement of the air quality control network. The same way that the functioning of the Air Quality Table can be improved to the Camp of Tarragona, enabling it to be truly a useful tool that serves to interchant information on the quality of the air, to adapt the vigilance and the search for the effects, in human health, of the main contaminants of petrochemicals, improving its transparency. The second time the Administration failed, we heard, was at the time of the accident; it was the most obvious display of uncoordination, misinformation, contradictory messages, delay in making decisions. The Iqoxe accident made it clear that those protocols, which until now are foreseen for petrochemical accident cases, did not work. I therefore call for the immediate implementation of other mechanisms. Some of the elements we believe to be phonative are the formation and information of the population. We were also told by the comparators, the representatives of the venous entities: "People didn't know what to do when the accident occurred. I didn't know about the private ones, but I didn't know about, for example, the establishments, which reacted differently before the parties. The alarms didn't ring, and a lot of people were wondering if they should ring or if they didn't sound by mistake. The Administration gave contradictory messages to social networks. Therefore, many elements that contributed to the chaos. In view of all this, as we say, it is necessary to strengthen training and information with a specific plan for the veins and veins of the villages and barrels belonging to the polygons that contemplates actions at schools, entities and associations, with advertising campaigns, with folder; in short, with the necessary means for citizens and citizens, if they find themselves again with an accident of these characteristics, they know what to do and, above all, they know that if they do, they will be safe. And, for another band, we want the Medical Emergencies Service to have sufficient equipment and proper protocols before accidents of these characteristics. And, in the field of salvation, we believe that it is necessary to study the existence, in our reference hospitals, of units to assist injured in the event of chemical accidents. And lastly, we said that, as we heard, the government was still failing, and we would explain why. For us – and it seems to me that it is a shared opinion – moving from Plaseqta to Plaseqcat was a mistake. But to formulate a new Plaseqta..., there is not enough; to formulate it simply there is not enough. The paper can handle everything, it's obvious. That is to say, if we take the decision center to manage possible accidents, but not the provision of the necessary resources because this plan can be deployed, it does not serve for anything or very little. And, in this sense, we deeply regret the demonstrations that Counsellor Sámper made in the committee when he was talking about the deployment of the Plaseqta, in concrete to adapt the room of the Cecat or to perimeter with sensors the two petrochemical polygons of Tarragona. He told us, Counselor, that the Government did not have a million and a half euros to be able to do so; 1 million euros in a budget of EUR 46,000 million and a surplus of more than 900 million that has not been spent. He seemed to be ashamed of us. Then, because of the reaction of opposition groups and Tarragona's veins and veins, they obviously had to go out and say yes, that they would already find the money and that the Plaseqta would be deployed. But, really, the picture was very clear: a government that, after an accident as difficult as it was produced, with terrible consequences, did not have – I did not have – the sensitivity of entry to seek resources immediately in order to avoid accidents and situations like the vicuda 14 of genera d'encany. As good as the implementation of the proposals that this study committee has put forward has a better consideration for the government that has to complete them. I'm done. I ended up thanking all the Members who participated in this study committee for the work done and, above all, for the good understanding and the consensus that we have reached. Mr Alonso said earlier: "With our proposals we have reached a great degree of consensus. No one can escape that this good country has been favoured at all times by the chairman of the committee, the deputy Assumpta Escarp, to whom I especially appreciate her dedication; as well as to the reader and manager and to all the staff of the Parliament who have assisted us in our work, and, of course, to all those who appear. MPs and MPs, Tarragona Camp has a lot of faces ahead, and one of them is the future of one of its main economic engines: the petrochemical industry. Among all of us, we must be able to give more impetus to this future, with the political, economic and social stability necessary, with the capture of the investments needed to make possible new forms of green energy for industrial production, with more and better training, and above all guaranteeing the safety and health of the vehicles of the Camp de Tarragona. If this consensus that we have had in this commission, we continue to demonstrate, we continue to have, of course, that we will get out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And it is now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, the Member of Parliament, Yolanda López. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.30.0	Thank you, President. On January 14th, almost a year ago, a reactor exploded on the Iqoxe plant that ended the life of three people, two of them workers of the company and another one that was almost three kilometers away from the plant and that died as a result of the impact of a metal plate on their home. And I think it is important to mention that, as the previous Members have already done, first out of respect, out of solidarity with the victims, with the neighbours, and also because extraordinarily serious events like this cannot be left without explanation or responsibility. Because this is not an isolated fact, the problems in the southern polygon of Tarragona, and specifically in the company Iqoxe, are a continuous. We also saw, months later... in July, another worker died, and the insecurity that the neighbors of the area experience, so sometimes it becomes unbearable. And the administration must respond to all these people. After this accident, we had the initiative to promote, through a motion for a resolution, a committee of study on the petrochemical sector in Catalonia and that through witness appearances, reports and documentation..., try to clarify the facts of the fateful late 14 January and also to provide solutions in the legislative field so that something like this does not happen again. Finally, here we are, with conclusions of broad consensus among all the political forces that we make up the Parliament and that have been represented in the committee; which aim, these conclusions, that the work in the petrochemical sector in Catalonia, in particular in Camp de Tarragona, is more secure so that it can remain the economic engine that it is. After sixteen sessions and thirty-two participants, I would like to highlight – and the previous Members have already done so – the good working environment or some debates; very interesting, very enlightening information. Thanks to each and every one of the people who have participated in bringing light to this sad event. But not everything is going to be good news or recognitions, and we want to regret from here the role that the company has played, and in particular its leadership, Mr Leal and Mr Morlanes – as the previous colleagues have already said – who have not shown a very collaborative attitude, let us say, as they are not today with their staff, leaving the ones planted when negotiating the collective agreement, curiously in which the main demand of the workers refers to safety. The company's attitude does not seem to be the most constructive and cohesive, after an accident of these characteristics. From here, a fraternal embrace and all the support to the workers of Iqoxe, who have had a very bad time because of a regrettable accident and are now suffering again the deplants of the management of the company. Generally speaking, all groups, and broadly speaking, agree with the steps that must be taken to ensure that such a thing does not happen again. We agree on key measures to improve the safety of petrochemical plants; to improve the prevention of health and occupational risks of plant workers; and, no less importantly, to improve the confidence of the neighbours of Camp de Tarragona in the activity carried out by companies in the sector. In this regard, several important conclusions on the Petrochemical Sector Safety Study Commission, which was opened following this accident and which we wanted to share. First, to stress that the causes of the accident are not yet clear; not all the sessions of the commission nor the documentation provided have been sufficient to clarify everything that happened and why it happened. And beyond these conclusions of the committee, and given the impossibility of clarifying exactly everything that happened..., it has made my parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Puerre, decide to characterize us as a popular accusation in the criminal procedure that is taking place in the Court of Instruction No. 1 of Tarragona, to investigate why the explosion occurred and to clear up the corresponding responsibilities. We believe that if it is demonstrated that the company has forced the security situation and that this is the cause of some death, the company's sanction should be exemplary. The incident of 14 January revealed a lack of coordination in the management of an accident of these characteristics, because the alarm and communication systems did not work properly. Faced with the danger of the sector and the possible consequences for the citizens living around it, all the necessary precautions must be taken to carry out the activity and avoid accidents of these characteristics within the companies of the sector. That is why we believe that legislation is needed to tighten the industrial requirements for the implementation of technical safety measures for petrochemical plants and that there is also a need to systematically increase the inspection of work in plants. Also, the security of the territory in petrochemical polygons is another essential element for optimal operation and the confidence of the neighbours towards the activity. To this end, the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that petrochemical industrial polygons are equipped with specialized units for accident risk prevention and to establish the obligation to install air quality meters around the polygon, as well as to improve communication systems within companies. Finally, it should be added that, while the protocols and actions contained in the emergency plans were implemented, in this particular case they appear to have been insufficient. In order not to repeat this, we consider that three things are mainly needed: to increase the resources of the emergency units of the companies and of the industrial complexes, to create a specialized unit in chemical emergencies located in Camp de Tarragona that coordinates the safety of the complex, and to establish the SMS warning mechanism to reach the entire population directly. And I would also like to highlight four issues in particular, apart from those already explained: the need to make a specific law on the petrochemical activity of Camp de Tarragona. We are talking about the most important petrochemical complex in southern Europe and, moreover, with a particularity, which is the closest to housing and urban centres, which is a specific issue that needs own legislation that regulates the situations that may arise; the need for bunkerization in the control rooms close to the reactors to prevent malfunction and that could lead to accidents, and the importance of implementing measures to record all the activity that is carried out in the reactors or, what is the same, to implement a system similar to that of the black box, in order to then be able to consult the records and know what has happened. We have seen, and we have seen, all the Members who were in the committee, that this has been one of the shortcomings for which it cannot be clarified..., and that it is costing researchers more: to have lost all the information. I would also like to show a concern: in his appearance, the interior adviser, Mr Sàmper, explained to us that they had not been detected..., the chemical leak detectors around the area, a question that would cost 1_million_and_average_of_euros, which we believe is very little money when we talk about the safety and health of citizens. Counselor, I know you committed yourself there to talking to the government. I would like to start that commitment again and that, please, it is urgent that you make the effort and empower those resources necessary for the installation of these detectors. I believe – and some Members have already said this before me – that 1_million_and_half in the budget of the Generalitat is nothing, and I believe that it should not be put a price on the safety of neighbours, workers. From here I would also like to call on the next Government of the Generalitat to work on these issues in the next parliamentary term without delay and as quickly as possible. And to all the parliamentary groups that have representation in the next parliamentary term, that we are able to generate the synergies and complicitys necessary to legislate urgently on this issue. I would also like to say to the citizen that we have worked everything countercurrently, with difficulties – already explained by the president – with the Covid-19, not with all the means we could, but we have found a way to show us agreement on the big issues, with a broad consensus, and that politics serves that, to reach agreements on improving people's lives and not for trifles and nothing else. And, of course, thank all the compañeras, all the Members, the president, the lawyer – Mr Bayona – all the technicians who, because of the difficulty we have had, how we have done it for the pandemic, I think we have done a good job and I am very happy to have reached this consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.32.0	Good afternoon, all of you. So much good we never had to make these conclusions and we never had to make this study commission, because it obviously has a direct connection with what was the accident of the 14th generation of 2020 to Iqoxe. That said, we wanted, from our group, to put all our strength to work on this committee of study, so that we could work and live on petrochemistry and not die for petrochemistry, which is the great object that we thought we could have this committee of study. We would also like to acknowledge that we have put all the forces in place, but that the group group and sub-groups of Parliament have tried to work on everything they have been able to in some very complex circumstances: it has coincided with us, this committee, with the surely highest point of the Covid. That said, we would also like to work on what we do not agree on the conclusions or, expressed in another way, on what the conclusions seem to us to be insufficient. There is an object, which is the cause of the accident, which is obviously expressed in the set of conclusions and recommendations, but there is a very strong idea, which is what is technically known as ‘no barriers, combined with another idea,' that is ‘no security, but there has been, at some point – and so it forms to the conclusions – the idea of moving that, from the representation of the workers and their complaints, it was not intended to see cause-effect with the accident. And we don't share this story. For us, there are some elements, such as workloads, for one band, working rhythms, which is another thing different from workloads, for another band, which we consider to be the effects of studying petrochemistry and, above all, the accident that occurred in Iqoxe, to be of use. And we also want to convey to them another question that seemed to us even hurtful not to incorporate it into these conclusions, which is a literal part of the 17 July 2020 interview of the Tarragona Training Court 1, which is the correspondent investigator in the investigation phase of the petrochemical accident, the 14th generation, to Iqoxe. Because we don't think there were any CUP conclusions. We think it was, in any case, a judicial organ that was investigating with all the media what had happened there. This is not part of the conclusions, but today we are going to cause the contents that we did not want to transfer to the session logbook to be part of. And, therefore, we go on to read literally what we did not want to incorporate, but I did turn back the interlocutory mentioned: "From the investigation carried out, it turns out provisionally that there was an increase in the production capacity of the plant of the Canonja since it was acquired for the company Iqoxe the year 2014. The effects will be followed by non-substantial modifications of the initial environmental authorisation of the former IQA company, dating from the year 2012, with which a substantial increase in the authorised production was produced. The year 2016 called for non-substantial modification for the construction of the U-3100 reactor to replace the U-3350 unit, which was authorized mad. However, the U-350 unit was not dismantled at any time and continued to operate underground all the time, and was asked again for its inn in operation when the construction of the U-3200 reactor was installed. And on another side: "From the actions practiced, it is provisionally apparent that, unless the residue could not be treated by the depurator due to lack of treatment capacity of these, there are regular direct wears to the sea and, unless detected, they are concentrated by the nests or the heads of the week and were treated with AquaMax defunct so that they could not be perceived. To this end, the management of the company had ordered the workers of the derivative plant to proceed with the use of residues of this form and with a treatment; facts, all of them, which are subject to investigation. This is what has been done, according to a jutjat, the company, among many other realities. We also wanted to put into value a question that is important, that is backwards in conclusions, that is what makes reference to reviewing all plans. These conclusions are moving forward, and we think it is very good that all these plans should be reviewed. But we must also point out that when we were talking about what had not been done before, it did not include that the only risk was thirty-four metres away– and we had a dead person more clearly than thirty-four metres away–, that there were twelve gatherings without the current plan or the chaos that occurred on the day of the accident at 112 and in Civil Protection. This can never happen again. Because if this happens again, obviously there will be no justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Manuel Reyes has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.34.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, I would like to begin, as some of the people who have preceded me have also done, remembering and supporting those people, those relatives of those people who tragically died in that terrible accident, and also the relatives, right? From our group we joined this study commission that was created in February this year following the accident of 14 January in Iqoxe ; an accident that, as a result, we had two people, two workers who lost their lives, and a person who was two kilometers away also died. Therefore, a study committee that wants to work and has worked to deepen safety in the chemical industry and also in safety plans. The work plan envisaged by this committee was divided into three axes: the first, the intervention in the accident of the different agents involved; the second axis of action is on the administrations, what each administration did, and the third, as it cannot be otherwise, in those proposals for improvement so that we never have to regret the loss of human lives again, right? Therefore, a broad consensus has been worked out, with great participation, to work precisely on the improvement of these protocols, of protocols that have to be clear and known to the citizen, in addition to by the workers and the company, and to improve all the deficiencies that may exist in our emergency service. It is a subject, as you know, that is being brought to justice and, therefore, pending the finding of those responsible at the judicial level. And we do have to regret that there has been no participation in all these sessions by the main company concerned, right? In the area of internal security, we must continue to work on such legislation that guarantees safety in the facilities, in all industrial areas; we must encourage and continue to develop continuous training of workers in protocols, in emergency, in occupational risks, right? Also, of course, in the coordination of the various departments of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and also in relation to the local world, this necessary and fundamental coordination in emergency situations such as that in Tarragona. I insist: the comprehensive review of safety regulations and protocols, the improvement of inspections in the field of health at work, the strengthening of the training of workers, both in occupational risks and in self-protection and in emergency protocols, as well as the bunkering of control rooms and the improvement of facilities, right? This permanent working group between the Autonomous Administration and the municipalities close to these industrial facilities is also necessary. In the field of external security, we must improve the control of these emissions and the environmental impact they have on the territory and also strengthen the air pollution prevention service for better monitoring, as well as in the field of emergencies, improvements in the response to the detection of leaks in accidents, revision of the system of sound alarms that did not work well on the day of the accident, strengthening communication in the municipalities and providing more technical and human resources for the emergency service. Therefore, these are the conclusions that have been developed in this study committee. We have not yet found, we do not know what is the clear, concrete reason that caused this explosion, and therefore we must continue to deepen so that we can get to know the final reason, so that we do not repeat situations like this, that we do not lose human lives, that we are not afraid, the municipalities around the industrial plant, the safety of the people who reside there. Therefore, we must improve, as we say, in those protocols, also in the conduct of simulations, in preventive, fundamental action. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party will support the contents of this committee. It is true that, in the field..., creating ad hoc legislation creating an industrial policy, we do not see that this is the best solution for the territory. We believe that it could in some way cause future investments not to reach that area of Tarragona and could therefore endanger jobs. Let us therefore take account of the situation of the industry; let us work to legislate and improve the protocols, the occupational risks, in all those areas that can improve so that situations such as that experienced may not be repeated. But let's not stigmatize the Camp de Tarragona either; let's support the investment so that this situation does not happen again. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Sans has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members, Members, I would like to begin my intervention, in this case, giving thanks to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Escarp, for having pulled out of the car – the previous Members have already told me: it was not easy, it has been complicated time – and to put order to all the fold. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the rest of the Members who have taken part in this committee; it has been easy to work on it. We have arrived, as the Members who have also told me, at an agreement which I believe is broad and which I therefore believe we can be satisfied with. There have been nine months of work, seven sessions, thirty-two appearances, and, obviously, it is also important to thank all those who have been able to participate that he has come, that he has given his explanations and that he has dedicated his time to us. And, if I may, also especially my company Ferran Civit and company Joan Masferrer who, on behalf of the Republican Group, we have teamed up and, therefore, also doing this job that is certainly not seen – today we can't all be at the Faristol – but I would like to thank the company for the work done. This committee has allowed us to see that the accident that occurred on the 14th after the generation at the plant in Iqoxe and that involved the death of three people, one of them two miles [2 km] and one mile [2 km] and one mile [2 km], huh? I think it's a fact that we have to take a lot into account – from the point where the explosion occurred, it has meant a paradigm shift that respects the relations of the chemical industry with the winds and veins of Camp Tarragona and, in this case, obliges public administrations, also the chemical sector, to a repositioning in the field of industrial security and also for what it does to the management of emergencies. The situation of chaos that we experienced on the 14th generation cannot be repeated. In this sense, from the Republican Left we have tried to make many concrete proposals. We tried to escape a bit of literature and also what the description of the facts would be, to try, therefore, to make these proposals that were really useful, right? , which is concrete in modifications of the various standard brands here in the Spanish State, also in Europe, because an accident of these characteristics has not repeated again. I'm not here or anywhere. We also tried to make proposals in the direction of avoiding, which I said, didn't we? , that situation of chaos, desori, that was generated after the accident. We understand that the comings and comings of Camp Tarragona have... we need to know what we have to do in case an accident occurs. We have contradictory messages and we understand that if an accident of these characteristics is produced today we will surely make many of these mistakes again. And, therefore, I believe that here too we must put a special emphasis. As other Members have already made before me, I think it is up to us to denounce the role of the Iqoxe company, in this case, of the most responsible of the company. He is the one who should have given explanations, the ones who should have given the face to the Parliament of Catalonia as the highest representation of the citizens of this country, and therefore we understand it as a lack of support for the people of Camp Tarragona and also of Catalonia. Now, after these appearances – and some of the companies that preceded me have also said this – we have seen, as several studies and reports show, that the causes of the explosion cannot be precisely determined, because the control room where the data were stored was destroyed by the explosion and also because the workers who saw it in the first person badly died. However, we believe that it is important to highlight what is indicated by the external report commissioned by the Government of Catalonia, which points out that the chemical reaction is very likely to be out of control because the different barriers that should have prevented it or did not exist or were inadequate or failed. And we understand that this is exactly where we need to put the accent. For what it does to internal and external security, various proposals have come out. We would like to review some of them, such as the need to reassess chemical risks. An accident of these characteristics is not expected to happen. We therefore believe that a reassessment of the chemical risks of European optics is needed. The Seveso directive is a directive that is created from an accident and we understand that this learning after the evil accident of Iqoxe must also serve for regulation in the European field. What passed the 14th genera is also a very difficult fact and which confirms the importance of prevention of occupational risks in order to be secure in the world of work. We need chemical industry workers to have security and, therefore, we also need to continue working on the line that the Department of Work has started in the framework of the Commission for Safety and Health at the Petrochemical Complex in Tarragona. We understand that it's also a phonative job. Cal, surely, a greater control of the Labour Inspectorate to ensure, therefore, some of the things that have been said. It is necessary to lay down the bunkering of control rooms, so that this is mandatory because these control rooms are not destroyed in the event of an accident. Sensor arrays, in case of toxic cloud, are phonental, are primordial. After the appearances we've seen, we've determined that if this accident had affected the people, we'd be able to determine it a lot. Therefore, these sensors are also useful to know, in case of a leak, in case of an accident, that the emissions that can be derived from here have no effects on the population and, therefore, the emergencies can act in consequence: sound the alarms, there is confinement, etc. The theme of the black box or remote control: we won't know what happened because we don't have the data in the control room. Therefore, I believe that it is also a learning of this accident that you need to dispose of what we have popularly known as a black box, a control where you have all this information collected. And another element that for us is also useful and that has called attention to us after these comparisons, has to see the quality of the area and has to see the security of the entity in a much wider term, huh? Here we talk about safety in the event of an accident, but we understand that safety also goes through salvation. And, in the case of the petrochemical polygon of Tarragona, it has a very concrete specificity: it is very close to the populated nuclei, it has an accumulation, a density of industry very close to the population, and the regulations, for which we see, for which it does environmental control is thought individually for each of the industries, it is thought in an individualized way. We understand, in this sense, that it is important that in the European sphere you take a look that takes into account the singularity of these polygons, that takes into account this density of industries. He gave us a lot of attention that only a 10_per_cent of the volatile compounds that the industry emits are controlled and regulated – only a 10_per_cent. Moreover, it does not take into account the interaction in the emissions of different industries and, therefore, I believe that it is also an important element that derives from these conclusions, that go beyond the security that is understood as safety in the event of an accident, but it has to see security more in a long term. Some Members have also said this: the return of the Plaseqta to us seems to be a source of support for what it does to the management of the emergencies to the territory. Now, accompany the economic resources and relevant materials that are needed. We understand that the proximity of the territory makes it more effective, but yes, this must always be accompanied by material and personal resources. Another element, it seems to me that Mr Alonso spoke of the need for the Spanish Government to transpose the European directive. You have until 2022 for what you do to cell broadcasting. The accident produced a 14-genre; it wasn't tourist season. But we ask ourselves what happened if this happened during the tourist season. And, therefore, the need to have a warning and alert system that does not go to the people we usually live on the side of the chemical industry and, therefore, that if you are an alarm you know what we are to do, but also to this people that can come and be temporarily stayed at our home. Therefore, it is also important to make this task of transposing this European directive. And it has also been said by other Members: formation and transparency. Vein associations were demanding a lot of transparency, a lot of information, to know what is being manufactured next to our home, but also to know what is exactly what we have to do when an accident occurred. There are multiple ways to do it. Today we have videos, we have social networks, and I think they're also tools we need to use. For what it does to criminal responsibility, therefore, we understand that there is already the open judicial process. In fact, the Tarragona Assembly – with Pau Ricomà in the lead – has also acted as a private prosecution and, therefore, we also understand that responsibilities must be resolved in the criminal field. Since the Republic Group we have made it clear that we want to ensure the continuity and viability of the chemical industry. Now, we're also clear that we want it safer and less contaminating. And, obviously, it couldn't end in any other way than with a sense record of the seven people injured after this accident, but especially with a record for friends, companions and family members of Óscar Atance, Óscar Saladié and Sergio Millán. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And in later term, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mònica Sales MP. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.38.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Well, I'll be allowed to explain that today I intervene in this Faristol on behalf of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès. Your commitment to parliamentary activity is also confirmed through these words I say, but they are yours. And we have to do so, too, because this chamber, unlike others, does not allow for intervention at a distance and we might need to reflect on all the folds. Today, once again, I want to start this intervention with a record for victims and families affected by Iqoxe's accident on the last 14 generations. Following this accident, the Parliament of Catalonia promoted the Commission of Study on the Safety of the Petrochemical Sector in its parliament. The compromise of the entire political spectrum of the legislative chamber greatly facilitated the processing and implementation of the study commission. For this reason, we from Juntas want to appreciate the predisposition of the president as much as of all the group spokespersons, the electorate and the committee manager, who have facilitated and speeded up the progress made towards the end of the work entrusted to us. As there is an ongoing judicial process, the Commission has not as its objective to look for those responsible for the events, but to study and listen to the different sectors for such a far-reaching number of conclusions and recommendations as to improve industrial security protocols and manage it from future emergencies. The petrochemical sector in Catalonia, and in concrete terms the petrochemical industrial complex of Camp de Tarragona, is the most important pole in southern Europe. More than forty years into the territory, the Camp de Tarragona chemical industry accounts for about 25_percent of state chemical production, as well as 50_percent of Catalan chemical production. The employment relationship of this sector is also smaller as regards people working there, the qualification and knowledge that is created there and the constant formation that is reversed there. Currently, close to two thousand people work there and there are close to thirty thousand induced employees. It is obvious that this work situation is achieved with the synergy that is created with the University of Rovira and Virgili and other knowledge poles, such as the Centre Tecnológica de la Química de Catalunya and the Institut Català de la Industria Química. Citizenship, with institutions and businesses, has been able to create a model of territorial success in the tourism sector with the chemical industry sector. They have not only lived well for years, but have also created links between themselves in the territory. The accident, however, implied a paradigm shift for what makes the way to hear and see the petrochemical cluster of Camp Tarragona. The confidence that the sector had gained over the past forty years between the veins and veins of the territory was badly felt after the fateful accident. Needs such as transparency, security investment, sector recognition or good management of emergencies, among others, are those that have turned into a backlash of recommendations and conclusions drawn from the different comparisons of this commission. From Juntes per Catalunya we believed that, before a fact like this in a sector of so many fishes, not so alone in Camp de Tarragona but also in Catalonia, it was necessary to make legislative proposals, as well as recommendations and initiatives that promote a better in the chemical sector. The first departure from the conclusions presented was based on making a series of recommendations in the field of industrial security. This is an essential change that needs to be studied in depth, but it is also delicate, as it counts on a complexity of very extensive mechanisms and protocols. For what it does to industrial security, in the internal industrial security that affects the interior perimeter of the companies we have proposed better in the investment in security technologies, study the implementation of black boxes to plants, valuation and need of bunkerization, and review and better of the corporate security protocols, among others. In the external industrial security, which affects the industry, the population and the country, we have proposed: restoration of confidence with the veins and veins of the territory, coordination with the enterprises of the region so as to be able to better treat the security protocols, and guarantee the deployment of the Plaseqta, among others. It should be noted that, as a result of all this process, the specific Plaseqta developed for the area of Tarragona with specific protocols for demarcation, with an initial reversal of 6_million euros to improve, above all, aspects of coordination and better communication around it. For what it does to the management of emergencies, the conclusions have also been divided into two parts: the management of internal emergencies and the management of external emergencies. In the case of the management of emergencies, from Junts to Catalonia we believe that it is necessary to put into value all the tasks that are due in term from the Directorate General of Civil Protection, the territorial services of Catalonia, and all the security and emergencies that took place during the accident. In addition, we propose that there be a formation for the citizenry that conveys transparency and knowledge to the territories about the petrochemical sector of Camp Tarragona. In summary, for which reference is made to the implementation of the chemical industry and its environment, what remains, in this case Camp de Tarragona, is to focus the proposals and align them with the European Union SDGs. For us there are two of these objectives that... if all are important and bring value from diversity and transversality, there are two that are outstanding in the sector that occupies us: the number 13, on climate change, and the number 17, on co-government. Both objectives go beyond the object of this study on safety in the chemical industry, but clearly its compliment marks a pocket of sustainable future for this industry in our territory and also in our country. And to speak of sustainability, economic sustainability, the chemical industry will be the indispensable future in issues such as water purification, products for the protection of colitis, feeding, to attend to the world volume of the population that, according to the UN, will exceed 9,700_million people in 2050, and will be further enveloped. This means more needy, for example, in terms of health and medicines. But this sustainability doesn't have to be at any price. It can be considered that this industry brings stable jobs in a 95_per_cent, because they have to have a high specialization. In terms of this same argument, this industry has to boost knowledge, promote dual FP, and even dual university. It is necessary to involve these companies with their knowledge environment, from which they will feed and, therefore, they will also have to drive it economically. For R+D+I issues, it would require their participation from the private sector. It may be considered that these companies already have a long tradition in terms of innovation and that they transfer their centres to the territory where they develop their activity. For what it does to environmental sustainability, it's a key to the future. The same sector understands that energy efficiency factors must be introduced; they must work towards the production of new materials and escape from commodities and go towards the production of high added value. It is a sector that has long incorporated concept 4.0 and has to work towards digitization and transformation of the sector. In Catalonia, to compliment the Law 16/2017, the August 1st, the climate change, there is the aim of reducing gas emissions with winter effects and favoring the transition towards a neutral economy in emissions. The chemical sector has a great responsibility and compromise in the compliment of the law. It is also important to listen to the sector, with proposals to boost energy transition. I, finally, social sustainability. In the case we're dealing with, this is a big challenge. The accident of the 14th generation involved a paradigm shift for which it makes confidence in the environment in the chemical industry. In the committee's work, a variety of measures have been put forward for information and communication between the chemical sector and its very own environment. The great challenge is to regain this confidence, which must pass through transparency in management and communication. Without doubt, it is now time to do the job in terms of efficiency and sustainability, and above all dialect. Moreover, as legislators, we need to be aware of the normative changes that we can propose or urge. Junts' vote for Catalonia will be in favour of all conclusions, by responsibility to industry, to our product fabric, in balance with people; people who must always be the centre of our policies. Thank you, Teresa. And, on his behalf, a thank-you to Marc López, all the members of the committee and the fellow Members. I, Teresa, always, despite the spleen, I must walk. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We suspend the session until three o'clock and come late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.40.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session... [[Report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Social and Economic Reconstruction and Reactivation]] [[260-00005/12]] ...with the dissette point, which is the debate of the Report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of the Social and Economic Reconstruction and Reactivation. According to Rule 66.3 of the Rules, this committee of study has approved a report and some conclusions, which have already been published to the Butlletí Official of the Parliament and which we debate further. To do this, parliamentary groups have two minutes of intervention, and five subgroups. Let us begin with the intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of Mr José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.41.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, vice president, councillor, very good afternoon to all. Today we present the conclusions of the study committee that we set up last July to address reconstruction and social and economic reactivation in the face of this pandemic that is affecting us. The first thing I want to do in this speech is express all the support and sincere condolences, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, to all the relatives, acquaintances and friends of the deceased during these difficult months. And give a strong embrace to those who are suffering from the disease, especially those who are in ICUs. We want them to recover as soon as possible. It has been five months of work until the conclusions are presented in this committee, months in which all the spokesmen of each parliamentary group have been involved so that we can present the conclusions at this last part-session. I would also like to thank the efforts, above all, of the fellow Members who have organised the committee, and in particular of the deputy Alicia Romero, because they have managed to make everything work and be ready in time. And, of course, thank you for the participation, involvement and contributions of all the participants, who, from different areas – health, economic and social – have given us their vision throughout all these sessions that we have shared with them. With the vast majority, since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we have been able to meet, also individually, in the more than one hundred and fifty meetings that we have held with the entities and organizations that have suffered and are still suffering today the devastating effect of this economic, social and health crisis. And that is one of the key elements to be able to get out of this situation as quickly as possible: to listen and take into account all the contributions, those of all those who can enrich and improve public policies. And precisely that has been the great weakness of this Government: not listening, not agreeing, not taking into account all that knowledge, and practicing a chaotic policy, giving tumbles, based on incomprehensible decisions, leaks and probe balloons that have worsened the situation rather than alleviated the situation. Much of the proposals contained in this document had already been put forward by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group and other opposition groups in the plenary sessions and in the committees that we have held throughout this pandemic, or we have put them directly to the Vice-President or to the Councillors, but they have all fallen apart. Look, in Catalonia we deserve a government that takes all Catalans into account and governs for all of them. Faced with a situation as harsh as the one we are experiencing, this government is not up to it. Nor have policies been prioritized and their course changed in the face of a global pandemic. This is a consensus document signed by six parliamentary groups, all but the CUP – all the groups in the parliamentary arch – and shows that the only way to confront the pandemic and alleviate, as far as possible, its effects is to have a government and politicians who focus on what really matters. Of course we have differences, things that are not in this document and that we defend each group or that each group would present in another way, but we have made an effort to focus on what we agree on. And that is what the Catalans want: that politicians dialogue and seek consensus on what we are living. And there's Citizens. We seek consensus and the best possible policies to address economic and social reconstruction and reactivation. This consensus document shows us what we already knew, what citizenship is asking of us: that we deal with important things, with what affects us all, and let us put aside secondary things. This moment requires unity, it requires enhancing coexistence. It requires to separate everything that can separate us; to put aside everything that confronts us, that confronts us between Catalans or that confronts us between Catalans and the rest of Spanish. Because that's the way. On the different path, what we do is we lose well-being, we lose opportunities. We have had ten years of governments that have only been concerned about one subject. We've been with politicians for ten years, who really have been saddening us. We need to open the windows to ventilate Catalonia, so that it enters fresh air, because the one we have is breathable. It's an air that's addicted. We've had ten years of governments that have impoverished us. We have seen how many Catalans have abandoned Catalonia, fed up with the environment they have created. And thousands of companies have changed their headquarters, because they saw irresponsible politicians putting their own interests and those of their own in the common good. We've been watching them expel investments for a decade, seeing how each time we're a less competitive region, with a tax-free, fried citizenship, where talent is expelled. Do you really believe that, in the middle of the teleworking era, you will attract talent when you are the autonomous community where the middle and working class pays the most taxes? We've been watching us take advantage of all the social, economic and cultural wealth that this land has. Which has to be pointed back at everything, because that will make Catalans improve their quality of life. And right now we can't be distracted from the real goal. The real goal is to get out of this thinking for once on all Catalans, without sides. And this government, not even in the face of a pandemic, gives a truce. And it continues with policies that have nothing to do with the real problems of Catalans. He continues to speak day and night exclusively of his book, without devoting a word to families, self-employed people or businesses. They are not able to see that there are issues that are a priority, a priority for all Catalans, and that necessarily have to displace others from political agendas. These are the problems that politicians expect us to address. And above all, they expect me to approach a government, without wasting time in all that does not add up. We all know this Christmas isn't going to be like the others. Many Catalans have lost a loved one, or they can't go and see him, or they can't embrace him. Others have lost their jobs, or have had to close their business, or are in an ERTE. And they'll all spend one of the worst Christmases. And we have to find a way to help those families, those workers and all those self-employed who are having a hard time and who are unable to imagine a future of prosperity. What matters to citizens right now, what really concerns them, is the health of their own people. He wants us to prioritize health investment and management. Let us not abandon all those who have some kind of disease and have not been able to be cared for by the stress that our health system suffers from the pandemic. May we attend to all that confined healing. Containment and restrictive measures have worsened the health of Catalans. Catalans care about the well-being of our elders, who are the ones who suffer the most from the consequences of the Covid-19. The Government's reaction to the housing situation has been horrific, and at this point the risk remains very high. Workers are concerned about keeping their job, or are trying to get one, or are trying to have a decent salary. And many of them live with the constant uncertainty of seeing how the months pass and continue in ERTE. Catalans are concerned about family reconciliation. Self-employed people and small businesses are concerned about saving their businesses, with the anxiety they feel they will not know if they will have to close their blind after so much effort. Many have already been forced to close, because the administrations have not accompanied them. It is deplorable to see the signs of 'hire' or'sold on the commercial premises of our municipalities. And they want us to worry about them so they don't have to close, so they can save their business. Parents are concerned about their children's education, worried that they may lose more months of schooling. They want a quality, modern education that guarantees equal opportunities and does not depend on the money their parents have. May they also be able to take their children to trilingual schools, as do most politicians who preach something else, but preach it to others. Education cannot be used as a short-sighted and impoverishing political instrument. Catalans want modern vocational training, which will train them well and be responsive to the needs of businesses. And they want universities with resources, which are not only capable of training, but also centres of knowledge and innovation, which allow us to add value to our business fabric, so that we do not compete in low wages and become owners of innovation. Citizenship wants not to miss a public_euro on the way, because there are many Catalans who are having a very bad time. Many Catalans who, despite their hard work, remain poor. Or they have a dependent family member and see how no one helps them and no one supports them, while they have to see how the friends of the usual, those who are on their rope and talk about their subjects, live to the body of king. The Catalans want that, when we say that no one is left behind, it is not a hollow phrase, that it becomes a reality. And they want to talk about the future. They want the European funds we can receive to be more competitive and well managed. Look, the legislature is over and we have this consensus document as a result of the Commission for the Study of Social and Economic Reconstruction and Reactivation. A document agreed by six parliamentary groups, but which is born orphaned, without a government capable of taking on the responsibility to carry it out. Let us hope that after these Christmases, Christmases that will be atypical and difficult for all, a new government will be established that will serve the wisdom and moderation of all Catalans. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.42.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the words of Mrs.Alícia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.43.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councillor, deputies and deputies, late afternoon. Well, on June 3rd, we approved in this plenary the creation of the Study Commission for Economic and Social Reconstruction and Reactivation, a proposal that we sign all parliamentary groups but – which is also true and I believe is just to say – on the initiative of opposition groups. The will to create this commission arose not from all groups, but from groups that basically conform to the opposition, with the objective that, before this pandemic provoked by the Covid-19, we were able to think, debate and raise answers to this crisis, which is not only health care, but also social and economic. The government had already put in place different mechanisms to the inter-departmental commission, Coreco, also a group of experts, Catalonia 2022, but the truth is that opposition groups did not have much information about it. We don't have it today, either. In fact, in July this Coreco document was presented, which we all, obviously, could see, because it is on the Generality website, but we have not had a participation like opposition groups nor have we been able to say, therefore, have an explanation or a little debate about this issue with the Government. Therefore, there has been a lack of dialogue, a lack of debate, which I believe the opposition groups want to resolve with this committee. So, let's push her. I must thank the Government or the groups that support the Government – the Republican Left Group and the Junta Group for Catalonia – who wanted to add to try, therefore, to make this dialogue, this open debate, in a study committee, as it ended. Not all governments have had the same attitude. I want to remember, now that a few days ago President Ximo Puig came, how the Valencian Community has been able to reach a lot of agreements with social and economic agents and political groups. I mean, it's a matter of volunteering. In fact, we have seen how we have approved, on account of the opposition, more than thirty urgent decrees to respond to this pandemic, and they have not been treated, worked, or granted to opposition groups. Therefore, it is true that there is here, therefore, a wire conductor, which is probably the one of the non-dialeg and the one of the non-agreement or the non-work, together, that we found missing. And, therefore, this committee has made us occupy a space that all of us, in a way, are now at such a difficult time as this. If it's not in times of crisis like we're living, probably the hardest of the past decades, so, I don't know when it's time to put all our seats on a table trying to find solutions, right? Therefore, this committee has given us the opportunity to do this, to work together, with an objective that was to seek the best responses to this crisis. It's been an intense job, because, as we say, this committee approved June 3rd and July, so we've already put ourselves to work. I believe that the first agreement we reached among all of us was, precisely, that of our fellows, to try that in a few weeks – because it is already apparent, in July, that this legislature would be shorter than usual –..., therefore, than we try to agree some fellows who allow us, at the end of the legislature, to present some conclusions. So this was the first deal. Of course, the audience hasn't been all of our thanks, not all of us that we want. I mean, we didn't find it missing, we didn't incorporate others, but "agreeing means saying that, giving in and incorporating people that maybe aren't what you proposed, but it seems to us that this is a good way to do things. I also have to say – and I like to be honest, in this sense – that it was Republican Left, deputy Ernest Maragall, who made the proposal to try to divide the Commission's work into two stages, right? And I think it was a good thought to say: "We will certainly not have time to debate in the medium and long term. We try to make a short-term first step in putting in place the most immediate responses that this crisis needs, and in any case, in our own legislature, those who are going to do the other job, right? It seemed to us all interesting, and here too it seemed to us that we should focus on this first phase, on our peers, to respond to this crisis at short notice. And so, so, we're gonna do it. I think it's a first responsibility message that gave this commission and that has some value, at least for us, right? , bearing in mind that it is so hard for this Parliament to put in common that it unites us..., and so much that separates us. We've had 12 meetings since that July 7th, I mean, we've done an intense job. We have listened to interesting views, very timely reflections, in six different areas that we have also selected. And it is at this point that I would like to thank my group, but above all some Members who have obviously helped me to do this job. And I would like to quote them: Marta Moreta, Raül Moreno, Assumpta Escarp, Rafel Bruguera or Esther Niubó, who have been helping me make these conclusions. And, as it could not be otherwise, also, therefore, the Eva Granados, who was the chairman of this committee, who with diligence, cordiality and rigour has brought to an end the steering tasks of the committee and also to help us count on our fellows in a difficult situation, because most sessions have been virtual, and therefore to attend to them in the best possible way. And I wanted to thank her, since she couldn't join us today, this job she's done since the presidency of this committee. After all these sessions we arrived at probably the most complex moment, which was: "Well, we have to make some conclusions. And, with the intention of trying to wake them up, so we've all worked. It wasn't easy. It's easier to reach conclusions, but I think we've all given in until we've got some. Are these the conclusions that please the PSC the most? So surely not. Are they the ones the PSC introduced? No, no, The PSC presented some to work together, and obviously some things have been accepted and others have not. But, frankly – I say it with all sincerity – I think that what is voted today is better than what the PSC presented, simply because what the PSC presents is from its own perspective – what my group presents is from my perspective – and what we will approve is the sum of the perspectives, the visions of everyone, giving in. And it seems a lot more interesting. That it is obvious that in economic policy Ciutadans and the PSC do not share many things? You're obvious. When I read the conclusions, there were things we didn't share, and probably it also happens in the groups of Catalonia in Comú Pode and the Popular Party, but among all of us we know how to put it where we come together to try to add. And I think that's the most important thing. That is why I think the conclusions are better than my group presented to you individually. I think this is an effort that we should do more often. We have approved a hundred_four conclusions, a hundred conclusions. Imagine if we are able to agree things: one hundred_four conclusions. One hundred and four measures that all groups except the CUP, which at last did not add up to these joint conclusions, we have been able to agree. Anyway, how many things could we not do if we put this generosity and this attitude in doing things all the time, right? Well, some conclusions I'd like to highlight. For example, in economics. Deiem: a plan for the economic sectors affected. There are not many who have been..., who carry closed months, such as the night octurnal or shopping centers, who have been there six weeks ago and re-opened with a small outburst, but it is not economically compensated. Well, here we've granted it would heat a shoal to make these compensations. You see, don't you? Or, for example, modify the conditions or avalanches of the ICF presets to increase carelessness and broaden depreciations. This is something that Vice President Aragones was asking the Government of the State about the ICO, but here we are... we are at the moment unable to do so at the ICF. Well, that's a deal we've made between all of us, isn't it? Let's hope this can be it. After that, important things. To review and improve the wages and working conditions of the health sector, which we are patenting so much – that if we want to attract talent and retain talent, or we are able to improve the conditions of our health personnel or, if not, we will not get out of it, and in the end we have the best health system thanks to these professionals. To reduce the list of surgical waiting and diagnostic tests, which, moreover, have now clearly increased with the situation of the Covid-19. Reduce and close the digital loop between the students, which has obviously been made worse by this activity that they have had to carry out, taking into account the closure and the telematics activity. Compensate universities with the resources they have allocated to this non-personal formation, which has been very important. Fighting the poor child, who has grown up these months, and for us it was very uplifting before and is now even more. To review the residential model, which is patenting a lot and probably has to be laid..., and you say, the proposal: "That the residences are connected to the public health system and are medicalized. Well, proposals we've all made. A rescue plan for cultural activity, or an economic plan for assembly. And these are the only proposals they have, aren't they? And it's good that it's for the local world: 500_million euros of extraordinary funds for the local world and 200 increase for the co-operation fund. One hundred and four proposals that I think give the result of an important job. And now, honestly, Vice President and Councillor Budo, it's up to you. Now it's up to the government. They can't come here and don't listen and don't listen. Now Parliament's mandate should be completed. You have rejected more than €3,200_million in state funds for the Covid-19. They have a flexibility of the deficit target. The parliamentary groups have been able to agree. Now it's up to you to complete: take this document and try to make it complete to the maximum of this document. Because, if not, you are neither worthy of the work of the deputies nor worthy of the work of this chamber. And, frankly, we've done an interesting job. I am very happy and want to thank personally the spokesman and some deputies who have not been spokespersons, such as Gemma Espigares, Jordi Munell, Elena Fort, José María Cano or Susanna Segovia, Santi Rodríguez and also Carles Riera, therefore, the work they have done. I think we've done a good job, and I think it's up to you now to reward us with the compliment, not all of them, but many of these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.44.0	Congresswoman, thank you. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy of Ciutadans Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.45.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and deputies, companies and companies of the reconstruction committee in which we have been working these months, surely we are all getting started enough..., so, making this reflection on the way the commission has worked. And I think, actually, as has been said so far, it's good news that we're still working as we've worked. It is true that the conclusions we present today, this one about a hundred proposals that the Socialist Party MP commented on, are an indication that when we want to work together and find what I would call ‘minimum common denominators, that is, those proposals that, after listening to the peers... I think it is very important that this exercise could have listened and had interlocuted and interacted with the different peers that have come from each axis. They're part of what helps us build these proposals that we're bringing here now because they're voting like the reconstruction committee's conclusions. But it's also important that this precision is ugly about the methodology we've been using. And it's that when we started the work of the commission we certainly went out, in each group, a list of more than a hundred peers, and also more than god, fifteen, there were fears that each of us enjoyed working with more depth from this commission. Jo, for example... every one of you must have missed yours. I have found that we may not be able to invite, for example, movements working for the right to housing or people working for the themes of a solid economy. We believe that what we have been able to do now is what we can do with the time we have, and we have indeed made an effort to achieve and to summarize and prioritize, but it is obvious and we have to recognize that we have left many things out, that we have left many appearing out, that we have left many perspectives out. And I think this has to be explained a lot and it has to be said clearly, because we also have the compromise that, like at least, we have worked on this second job, right? , or to have pointed out who are serious about the things that should be taken up in their own legislature. And I think it's worth it that the different groups, beyond who the deputies are, that are part of it... that the different parliamentary groups that are present in the next legislature take up the challenge that there's a lot left to talk about. Because what we are now presenting are first conclusions of response to the emergence, but we are still in front of the structural response, or so, all those measures and all those approaches that do not only have to see with the emergence that we are living, but must be the model of the country to which we want to go, the country to which we want to go. I am sure that in this document of conclusions – we have said it many times – there must be..., there have been resignations on the part of everyone, it is true, there have been divestitures on the part of everyone; there is someone who will feel more or less comfortable with some things and there will be those who will find more or less things missing, but it is very difficult, for a lot of us talking about consensus and common accommodation and this effort of construction, that we do not know that we really come from country perspectives, even very different and very long between us. So, actually, it's the idea that they are conclusions that are a very small denominator, the least that we can get to six of the seven groups that we have represented in this Parliament, groups that are so different and so distant not only in their proposals, but also in the reading that is about reality, why we are where we are and why we are as we are and how we need to get out of here: from the People's Party to Catalonia in Comú Pode, Socialists, Citizens, Juntes per Catalunya, the Republican Group... I mean, I think we have so much and so much to read why we are here, why we have arrived and how we have come out of here very different. Therefore, what we present is the least we consider among all and all that must be the least that this Parliament explains to the citizenry as the answer. And it's an important exercise, that we've done this ability to find this answer and that there's not a committee of "and you more and you less." I think that's very important, like working out, but we don't ignore and we don't see that we have other things to think about and other things to defend. The model of country we want to build from this crisis is surely very different, and this is a challenge that we also have a bit ahead of us. Because, besides, consensus is a responsibility, too. It is a responsibility that we have put black on white, that we have given, as it is, not only words put into conclusions of a committee that we vote on and that will have a very broad result of consensus. It's got to be fets. If six of the seven groups that we have represented in this Parliament and that we will surely continue to hold it in our own legislature as political groups sign these conclusions, it is more than likely that the own Government of the Generality – and I no longer refer only to the Government in functions that are now in place or to the groups that are supporting it, but to which it will come after these elections – then... there will be one like at least or more of these parties in this government's configuration. Will this future government...? Are they taking the election programs that we present the different parties and these proposals? Shall we move from words to facts? Will we ensure that consensus is a responsibility for the realization of clear policies, public policies for the defence of what we are talking about? I think it's important that this compromise with what we're approving, beyond what we're approving. And this is a reflection that I prefer to make all the Members and Members and all the groups that we are talking about. We try that citizenship is not left with: "The one who approves the Parliament, in total, does not serve for the king, because then it is not complete, that it is a tonic that we have had in this enough legislature installed. And for me, which is the first..., it's one of the things that I recognize at some point that's got me back together, even in my parliamentary pocket. Why in the end do you say: "But why more proposals for resolution, if after all that is approved..., up to the top? So, beyond political statements, what are we committing ourselves to, with these reconstruction commissions? We believe that the outcome of this crisis can't be back where we were, it can't be. That's why the word "reconstruction" too, even though it's a word that we're doing a lot of good on the coast. In any case, it should be reconstructed to transform, because what we can't do is give the same answer that, for example, was given in 2008 and let the same people back in. So, we really need to think about how we transform, how we make an economic and social change that brings us to a more just, fairer, more redistributive and more egalitarian Catalan society. And that can't be done with the same old receipts, and that we won't do without analyzing why we are where we are and why we have unequaled and unfaired our society, which is there. And here is where, surely, the different parliamentary groups have different ways of hearing, as I said, why we are here, why we are working as we work and how we need to get out of this situation that many consider unfair and unfair. Notwithstanding this, it is true that there are some things in which we value that we may have reached a consensus. For example, it seems to us that shielding expenses for health, for education, for social policies is fundamental. That public servants are shielded, that these conclusions make a clear bet to shield public servants, and that this follows the conclusions of six parliamentary groups is a very clear bet to effectively shield these public servants. So, we do hope that from now on all the policies that are being done and everything that defense groups are vagrant in the line of shielding, reinforcing, public services as a guarantee of rights for all citizens. Any other measures we've approved? So how do we make this concrete: we provide the primary care we are giving. One of the things that has come out most is the importance of primary care between the health system. Before that, a system of salvation that we have absolutely saturated and overflowed, also a victim of the detail we've experienced in the past few years. So let's put these resources in it. So, now there are some of the parties that sign these conclusions that are to the government and others that will come to the proper government. We insist, we put in these resources. We put the resources to give tools to the faculty, families and students, to, once and for all, end segregation and ensure equal education. We have the tools to, too, make a perspective and a feminist transversalization of all the policies of the Government of Catalonia. This was very clear to us from the representative of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia: lack of a gender perspective in the different policies that are being implemented by the Government to respond to the outcome of this crisis. There are no referent people in feminist policies in these decision-making arenas. That's one of the conclusions we've come up with. Step forward, step forward and do it. That can be done from now on. It is as simple as incorporating people with a feminist perspective between the spaces of participation and decision making. We're talking about housing, and we're talking about the housing crisis. The housing crisis requires resources; it requires the necessary technical resources, human resources and economic resources. We have some very powerful legal tools. Now what it takes is for us to believe and deploy them. And we have also signed six parliamentary groups. Therefore, there has to be a very clear bet to deploy these tools, to give them the necessary resources, but also to open up at once the axis of the investment in public housing in Catalonia, a protected habitat. It seems to us that we are still a few years away from what Catalonia would have to do for the investment in official protection habitat, and we hope that once in a while we will open the door and let money be spent to invest in something that will, in fact, be a way of guaranteeing the right to a decent habitat for everyone. We actually presented a document of conclusions to the band. Because we considered that the effort of synthesis and the effort of consensus that all the groups had made was important, because there were aspects that for us were basic that were also on the table... They would not vote today, these conclusions, but we thought it necessary to be able to complement, precisely, all that we have left behind..., all that we believe to end up giving a vision that is not entirely as complete as we would like the approach to this crisis to be. And, for example, in the whole issue of demerchantization and the reversal of privatization in public services and social services, there are some aspects that we considered important to put on the table, such as the need for a more distributive, greener, more equitable tax reform, such as the need to put forward feminist policies to actually put the cures at the centre. And we consider that these are aspects worth putting on the table. Now I think what's important is this placement in the government because it works for cooperation, because it leaves the confrontation, because it cooperates with the citizenry, with the assemblies and with the different levels of the government, because it listens and cooperates to transform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.46.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.47.0	Thank you, President. Well, we want to start this intervention with a record and tribute to the victims of the ship cremated in Badalona, to all the people in our country – who are many – who find themselves in this situation of precariousness and vulnerability. And also a record and a tribute to the people who, every day, today, are feeling naked at home: vulnerable families, families with infants, also in a situation of precariousness and vulnerability, who are constantly and continuously denouncing themselves with the direct collaboration of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. They, all of them, and all of the people who are patenting precariousness and inequality in our country represent the situation that has seen much of our people: inequality, precariousness, injustice and exclusion. Our proposals, which we have tabled in this committee and which you have fallen, which you have not approved, are proposals that are aimed at eliminating these phenomena; not only to prevent them, but to eliminate them structurally. And you didn't approve of them. On the other hand, you are making proposals for small reforms, for subtleties, for regulations, for adjustments, for the current economic and social system, which you know – not that I assure you – that you do not have the capacity to reverse these situations. With the proposals you are making, unfortunately, there will continue to be disclaimers, there will continue to be dramas and tragedies like Badalona's, there will continue to be an increase in inequality, injustice and precariousness. That, in any case, is his responsibility. We, too, by responsibility, shall abstain from voting on this report which you submit. Of course, logically, in these hundreds of proposals there are some that are very immediate in application, in short, that are small measures of shock that improve to a certain extent some of the current public policies, and, obviously, we, responsiblely, will not vote against, we will abstain. But we cannot vote in favour of a set of measures that the only thing they do is abound in the same economic and social situation that we are living and that has brought us to this situation. Because the crisis that we are currently experiencing and the crisis that we are experiencing, unfortunately, our own time is not only the result of the impact of the Covid. In this crisis we were already, in the precariousness of most of the working class we were already there, in the growth of inequalities we were already there, in the crisis in the retailing of public services we were already there. And what the Covid does, obviously, with its impact, is sharpening, accelerating and exacerbating this process of crisis and its consequences. And what you're doing is, with the money that they're supposed to come from Europe, injecting more money into this system, into this economic and social system, with the same structure, without changing the economic structure, the distribution of wealth, without changing the productive structure, without changing public policies, without substantially redistributing wealth. What they do is inject more money into this system, trust economic operators, big corporations, inject more money and more finance, with the illusion that this will generate an economic activation and that these economic agents will begin, by magic, to create workspaces, not to precarite them, to redistribute wealth, etc. Do you want to tell me which guarantees you have or require, as it should be, that this injection of money will ensure that there will be no accompaniments? What is reinvesting the benefits in the territory? What will be the absolute respect of the ecological criteria and propitious to a feminist economy? What will control the tax fraud? What will be the democratic control of these activities? No way, huh? So this is a toast to the sun. Mirin, most economists agree that, unfortunately, after so many letters games, the outcome of this crisis will be a K, dramatically: the rich, the richest, and the poor, the poorest. And what you do is inject money into the wealthiest, mainly through European financing, with the expectation that your generosity will enable you to activate the economy and create jobs, etc. That's gonna be a frac – that's gonna be a frac. What we have to do – and in this sense the proposals we have made – is to change the economic structure. Obviously, a plan of emergency relief, emergency relief, redistribution of wealth, housing, rescue of public services, the economy, the autonomies, the workers. A plan of shock to stop the accompaniments, to make public [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] the services and strategic resources and infrastructure of our country, starting with health and education – and I finish, President. A shoal that allows access to universal housing, that the right to housing remains untouchable in this country. But also, in addition to this plaza of xoc, modifications of the economic structure towards an economy of natural ecological, feminist and social, towards an economy of natural...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.48.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.49.0	...socialist, which is the only one that can guarantee a real rescue from the people of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.50.0	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.51.0	We shall abstain in the report and shall continue to fight against the streets, joints and assemblies of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.52.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.53.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, we are immersed in a health crisis, for a few months now, which has led to a major economic crisis and, as a result, also a major social crisis. And all that forces us, therefore, is to try to take urgent measures, yes, but also more structurally, so that we can overcome this situation as soon as possible, so that we can overcome the health crisis, which is what still puts us in business so that we can push the economy fully. And that was the object of this committee, which does not – and some Member has already said – with a willingness perhaps to do what the Government has not done. Because the government, indeed, has been talking about how to deal with the revival of the economy, how to deal with the recovery of the economy, but it has done so, in our view, with a certain endogenous view. It has done so only from the point of view of the same Government, appointing a committee of experts – also appointed directly for the Government – and without listening to the sectors concerned, who continue to come to the different groups of Parliament to expose us who are their concerns and their demands before this situation. Therefore, with this committee, what we intend to do, precisely, is to listen to all these entities, their proposals. And so, that's the sense of commission, isn't it? What we want to put in value is the fact that we have been able to come to conclusions – more than a hundred proposals – that we have put in common six parliamentary groups, and that has a special value. Now, if I may, Congresswoman Segovia, I will correct it. For us it cannot be the lowest common denominator, because the denominator divides; we prefer it to be the lowest common multiple, because the will of these proposals, precisely, is to multiply. Multiplying the economy and multiplying social welfare by the conjunction of citizens of Catalonia. And it is with this will that all parliamentary groups have made sacrifices. For example, we have been pleased to be able to speak and to introduce into these conclusions a chapter dedicated to fiscal moderation. But if we did, then we certainly did not get support from some parliamentary groups. We understand that and we take it. As we also assume that some of the housing aspects of these conclusions are not fully shared by us either, but we believe that, in the end, that it is a joint agreement of six parliamentary groups, it is worth making these divestitures. Therefore, there is not all that we want, not all that we fully share, but, certainly, the value of the agreement I believe is superior to those proposals that each of us could lay down and differentiate from each other, because they establish or define who are the nuances that each of us brings. Proposals... I'll be unfair now, because I'll highlight some of them, and I'll leave many of them, won't I? But... the fact of adapting the endorsements and the loans to the current needs of the pandemic, as long as they were planned to be at the heart of the pandemic, which is the disconnection of the duration of this, so, obviously, requires a review. As also requires special attention to the different sectors that are affected by short-term restrictive measures, but also mid- and long-term. For example, tourism will suffer a lot, and therefore specific measures will be needed for tourism. And the revival must also be accompanied by a..., what's going to be reconstructed or what's going to be reoriented from the economy. And, therefore, it will also be a good time to deepen the digitalization of the economy in many areas, right? And it also strengthens public services, strengthens health, health services, or strengthens social services so that absolutely no one is left behind. I'm done. I would like to convey to the Government that these conclusions of Parliament should be repeated not as a proposal..., mirin, nor of the six parliamentary groups that subscribe to it, nor of the same Parliament, but as a proposal of all those entities, persons and associations that have attended the committee...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.54.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.55.0	...that we're talking about. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.56.0	Thank you. Then has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Ernest Maragall. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.57.0	Thank you, President. Well, I think the first thing I have to do is to thank each other for the work and also for the amount of time we've been involved with today, and I'm sure that until the end, everyone is defending, naturally, their positions and their way of interpreting this document, the outcome of this work, but I also think from obvious respect and a positive appreciation of the combination of the contribution we've achieved. I want to especially thank Alicia Romero for her work, which we could tell her... a little bit of a poser, right? , let's say, that it has helped us, say, to lead the work respectfully with good results. I also left'mdir, Mr. Cano, that..., in short, I regret, in change, his initial reflection, because it seems to me that it is absolutely inconsistent with what we have done all this time. I do not understand that this interpretation can be derived from everything we are talking about and working on. And it's a little sad to see how a joint work and a consensus document is used just to grab it and launch it, as you always do, as a stone against the government and against everything that is done or intended to be done from our institutions. I thought the experience would be worth something. I see you're not. I see that it's hard to leave the actual object of the committee and go back to the topic, to the usual use that you make of the most spent topics, to the systemic demagology. Leave it there: you, with this intervention... Your job is, in the document, but this intervention does not represent this document, the more representative the denial, the storage and the damage. I'm not surprised, am I? In any case, that's the way it is. See, I think it's important to start by saying that this committee was set up on the initiative of opposition groups, actually, from the very harsh reality that we are all living, all of us and so much more, from the State and the European and the world, and that it was born I also grow to add, not just because..., it's not a classic of parliamentary function, more than legitimate, government control, huh? It is now an experience in which Parliament says: "Let the society that we represent, share reflections, share contributions and put them on the table and make them well-formulated in something that is of use to us as Parliament, to society and to the same executed with those who are also in relation, according to the local governments, the Government of Catalonia very especially and in the first place, it is clear, and also the central government. I think this committee did this, huh? , add, not replace. The government has done its thing. I think he's done it with so much evidence and efficiency that it's undeniable and it's absurd to discuss it. And every government has made its own. The government of the State too, the government of the assemblies too, the European governments too. Everyone did what they could, in the best sense. And it is true that we are not all folds learning in a very harsh way in a situation, effectively, of an indisputable complexity and demand. But this commission has added real knowledge of the situation, enabled it to identify better objectives and allowed it to identify horizons, identify paths, paths and criteria to follow in order to fulfill them. It's obvious that we have, like society, a lot of difficulty in managing this second one. Today, today, as every attempt to return to greater flexibility, from the point of view of economic activity, generates – as if it were an automatic spring – a leap forward in the negative sense of our basic health indicators. It's a date I don't think we can forget, also from the perspective of the work of this commission. Sometimes it seems that we understand – as society, I am now saying, not as the committee – to deny the evidence and continue to act as if the week that you have finished everything, as if we can already start thinking only about reconstruction, economic recovery, and how we build the future. And now we're demanding that the Nadal be Nadal, that their vacation be vacationed, that social life, the oci, the leure, the work..., that I still return to being who I was. Well, it turns out that the lesson is that we have to be a little more humble, that we have to be a little more self-demanding with ourselves as society and as administration, much in the first term, that it is what we represent here today, and that, therefore, there is a pulse still alive and demanding that we have not yet resolved much less, beyond the positive expectations that the cows that seem to be coming to us can offer. So good that yes, and as long as we do, we believe and assume them, but it doesn't seem that they are either absolute or that they just mean that we can just stop doing this reflection that we did on this committee and stop thinking, preparing, assuming and making decisions in all our senses. Today we know that everyone from Europe is preparing for the third day. We haven't finished the second and we're already getting ready for the third, which tells us it's going to reach the genera. In Germany, I think that with a certain rationality, apply the criteria « more worth preventing than curing, let's say, right? and are anticipating and exercising, with a formal and undisputed content, a certain policy of prevention and limitation of activity and limitation of social mobility, etc. Well, I think that, actually, as Mrs Romero said at the beginning, we were uncertain when we decided that this commission worked in two parts. Now we know that the transition is much longer, if not indefinitely, and we know that beyond these positive perspectives we still have much more to work on and apply as responsibility, especially public, in this period. And that's why this document has more meaning, huh? , precisely because it has a long application period ahead of it. Now, let me say that we would be wrong if from these one hundred and four conclusions, Mrs Romero, which you rightly considered in fessim– no one made, eh? , literally, which I appreciate –..., they are not a closed instruction. They are not an order to the government that Parliament is entitled to make. They are sooner, we say, an accumulation of possibilities, of diagnostics, of data, of information, of definition of criteria, of everything that our peers have brought us, in a very effective and very aggravating way, and of everything that we already, like political groups, assume as our own responsibility. It is a document of sum, more than of synthesis, and of accumulation, more than of selection. And so it's to make consent possible, everyone's put theirs on it. But let's also say, clearly, it's not true that it's just a first-stage document, as we said. We didn't respect that look right away. And it's natural, isn't it? We have all engaged in our charge, our ideology, our way of seeing the world, the accumulated deficits, the structural weaknesses of public systems, the demands arising from the same pandemic, etc. That's all: there's today, tomorrow and tomorrow past; the emergency, the necessary and the convenient; the reform pending years ago and the transformation that we now know is possible and that we have to assume as necessary. It's a solvent cataleg that we collect and transfer from Parliament. We return it in the form of conclusions to the same society, to whom we have listened, and we transfer it to the governments, to the respective governments, so that it takes into account, and so much good that we are able to practice it, to last it until the last consequences. But it's obviously not a government program. It has neither the assessment, nor the quantification, nor the opportunity cost that would be necessary because it was. There are many things to highlight from the actual content, huh? Finally, now it would be very long... I have many points, both in the land of salvation, when he speaks of this aspiration – which goes from the moon, also – to reach 7_percent of GDP, or the primary and integration of social and hospital networks, or the social system and the health system, etc. Or when he talks about dropping out of school, and what that means, and the absenteeism that was going on. Or when he speaks of all the elements of social emergence, of the "housing first"; of how we have, for example, to age so that the control is an effective administrative tool at the time of facing certain consequences, such as before Mr Riera, with a certain reason. When we talk about culture and obvious, say, and structural, yes, lack of dedication of resources that this sector suffers. Or the local rescue fund and the ciphers that go with it. Or let'macabar' refer, say, to this perspective more than we ask of Europe, of the message we send to our marc institutions. We are also talking about providing extraordinary resources, not just the future of investments and next generation, but the next generation. And now the key concept...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.58.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.59.0	...I think it's redistribution, that I mean spending, ordinary spending, but more recently measured in extraordinary terms, that I mean internal solidarity between groups...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.60.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.61.0	...means taxing the redistribution service. The key concepts of the second phase will be productive reversal and sustainable growth, but they are now redistribution, solidarity and adequate taxation in this demanding reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.62.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Jordi Munell. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.63.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, vice president, councillor, well, as has already been done..., intervene in the past, so you have these things. First, put in value the task of this commission. We have a few elections to the canton, and therefore it would be conceivable that each group could, therefore, mark differences and mark a proper profile, and in this committee this has not been so. We have seven cases, as has been repeated, of agreeing to hold a consensus document with one hundred and four proposals that we raise, in this case, to the Government of the Generality, but also some, as I will do later, to the Government of the State, right? , although we have the strength and power we have, but in any case, I think it's important to kill it too. We've talked about the lowest denominator, the lowest common multiple, and I'd like to talk more... a little barrage, wouldn't I? In this case, of the maximum common denominator, at the most we have seven layers to put in together without breaking the consensus. But sometimes I also like, as Mr. Rodriguez says, that we are at least able to ask the government and society in this case because it has multiplier effects on what is happening to us as a society, isn't it? So maybe we should look for a little explanation between the two, huh? In any case, also repeat what has already been said, thanking the efforts of all groups, in this case, regretting that the CUP did not want to add to this consensus, as Mr Riera has already explained. Also give thanks to the correspondents, who, therefore, often very quickly and very briefly were invited to compare. And, therefore, we are also aware that this gives little to a second phase, as has already been said, and, therefore, to our own legislature, this can be extended with other colleagues who have also needed it. And also pass a record from here on to all the families and people in our country who have suffered, or are, the effects of this pandemic on all the senses, huh? , of health, health care, family, and also social or work. In this case, I'd really like to make a quick summary, wouldn't I? , or highlight some of these proposals that we raise, in this case, as we say, on one side to our government, our country, eh? And you also realize that not all of them have the exclusivity of responsibility, but that in any case, they can work there. And then, a few, as we say, state government, huh? For example, some who I would like to highlight..., we ask that the foundations of a national pact for public health be laid; "national pact means that sanitation is not an object of political debate, but an object of national compromise, is it not? , as with other fears. Also increase the public assumption for education up to 6_percent of GDP. I think, as I said before, with this broad consensus of six groups of the parliamentary arch... it's a corporate objective, a country objective, huh? And even I'd like it more, from our very beginnings..., an objective of the state. Also, education from zero to three years is considered universal, because it is a tool for equal opportunities. Also the pulse defined to professional training and dual training as the strategy for society, to get us out in the future. Also implement and develop the National Covenant for the Knowledge Society. That this is a priority for our own months and years immediately as a shared and consensual strategy between higher education, research, innovation and the productive economy, and that we can draw this Catalonia of the future. Also modify the Law of guaranteed income of citizenship and adapt it, with the new vital minimum income, to expand its coverage. Also – it's said, huh? – the better of working conditions to dignify the work in the field of health and in the care world, eh? Or put the poor child as an objective to eliminate in the proper policy and increase until the 2,4_per_cent of GDP the investment in social protection in children and the family. Review the residential care model, and therefore finally connect the residences with the public health system. Pushing also a shoal for a society chess, which is youth. And, therefore, as a society, we also have the objective of reducing this youth unemployment rate and, above all, to put an end to job insecurity, especially among young people. Also increase to 2_per_cent the parties of the Department of Culture. In fact, the commission celebrated the dilluns as well, so it agreed. Deploying everything to the norm because culture is an essential asset and continuing the rescue of the cultural sector. Also approve a plan of action with the assemblies – it has already been thought, too – up to 500_million. Object ambitions, we don't stay... and, therefore, we owe the government, the present and the future, with figures. Also increase the call of the PUOSC and the Local Cooperation Fund to 200_million euros, for which the Government has predicted. Therefore, ambitious and conscious figures, and with the will that from the joints also the economy activates the economy of proximity, right? – the multiplier effect of the economy. Also a permanent commission Generalitat-municipis aimed at green social reconstruction. To complete the deployment of something that is essential today, which is optical fiber, to all the communities and cities of our country, with equal opportunities viscous to Setcases or viscous to the Diagonal. Reform, also, of primary care, a structural reform, providing it with sufficient personal assumptions and own infrastructure. And also another important issue for the country, an interdepartmental plan of all departments to fight against the depopulation of some areas. So let us have a balanced country. These are concrete deures. I didn't make a summary. There are many more, in these hundred and four that form part of this document. But also some... as we say, before the central government. The central government also has responsibilities. From here we can intervene in what we can, but as a minimum we can do as an altar and we can also ask the Government, at the present time, the Government in office and at the very time, therefore, that I negotiated with the Central Government to return some things that are essential to deal with this post-pandemic and the third day that you see us now, as we are being alerted. Let's remember that the central government is the one who has the key to the box, likes us more or likes us less. From the ordinary box, because it is the one that comes back – we have said in other interventions – 95_percent of Catalonia's taxation, but also from the extraordinary box, because it is the one who has the responsibility for the distribution of these funds Next Generation Europe and of the LOSS, the strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation, as was also discussed in that monographic debate that we made on these funds. In this case, what do we ask of the State? We ask you to keep as much time as possible and automatically, when you weigh, the expansion of ERTOS, that this is a guarantee for the workers and also a guarantee for the subsistence of businesses, as other European countries do. Also that the State recognizes the intermittence of the work of the cultural sector and that it sets aside the Statue of the Artist and a system of incentive also in the cultural mecenatge – tax incentives. As well as the State maintaining this flexibility that it has made at a later time of municipal surpluses and Romanesque and expenditure rule in order to maintain the multiplier effect of the economy on public investment. Also establish with the State and the corresponding institutions how the Generality will participate directly and also, therefore, how the joint ventures, local administrations or other entities will intervene in the application of these European foundations. In fact, as discussed... it was also asked in the monographic debate on these grounds. In the State, too, a reform of the Law of Local Regime Bases to adapt the financing of the joints and the Local Administration to the new reality, right? And the one who sees us now. And also ask the State to fix public policies that allow to recover internal demand as a strategy to generate activity and guarantee and increase occupation. They are therefore due from this committee, an exceptional committee, and therefore with an exceptional consensus. Dues to the Government of the Generality and dues to the Government of the State as well. Let us hope that it is not here, therefore, in this writing, that it is not here in this speaker, but that we see the proper months as they apply and as they give the fruits and the results, the same way that the members of the committee have worked. I would also like to thank the Bureau of the Committee: Mrs Granados, President; Mrs Fort, Vice-President; and, as I have already said, also some..., Mrs Romero, in particular, because these last days are surely the ones that have put a few batteries in the rest of the Commission's portfolio and members in order to arrive in time and present them in this last plenary, as has been shown by the will. Also thanks to the rest of the companies and companies of this committee, and especially, as I said before, for the effort to make a consensus as much as possible and present it here in your parliamentary office. Thank you so much everyone. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.64.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Decree-Law 43/2020 of 17 November, enabling the Català de l'Esport Council to set up extraordinary and emergency aid for the suspension of the opening to the public of installations and sports equipment in Catalonia, creates the Extraordinary Fund for 2020 for local authorities, and amends Decree-Law 41/2020 of 10 November, on extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in reading and extra-curricular activities in the face of the health, economic and social crisis generated by Covid-19]] [[203-00070/12]] After this debate, let us turn to the next item on the agenda, specifically the new one, which is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 43/2020 of 17 November, for which the Catalan Council of the Sport is empowered for the setting up of extraordinary and emergency aids in the face of the suspension of the opening to the public of facilities and sports equipment in Catalonia, is created the extraordinary additional fund 2020 for local authorities, and is modified by Decree Law 41/2020 of 10 November, of extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in reading and extra-curricular activities in the face of the financial, economic and social crisis generated by the Covid-19. In the first place, to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated, has the word the Councillor of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.65.0	Thank you, President. Certainly, we have just discussed what must be the management of this post-Covid, the management of this health emergency, but also this post-merger, which also results in an economic and social crisis, and which must be the measures, therefore, which must be taken with the country, which we must take in the medium and long term. But, at the same time, as the government finds itself with the need day by day, to respond to the reality of the current situation, resulting from the measures that we must take to deal with this pandemic that still strikes us hard. Therefore, today we present this decree law, which consists of three parts. A first part in which the Català de l'Esport Council is empowered to hold all those extraordinary and emergency aids in order to deal, therefore, with the suspension that we had to order from opening to the public of all the installations and of the sports equipment of Catalonia. This decree also envisages the creation of this extraordinary additional Fund for the year 2020 for the local authorities. And, at the same time, it also provides for the amendment of Decree 41/2020, of extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in law and of extra-school activities to deal with the health and economic and social crisis generated by Covid-19. Therefore, President, I begin by giving account of this first part of this decree, which refers to the world of sport, which, as you know and I like to remember often, every time I come here to Parliament and ask me or I have some answer to some question, therefore, for which I refer to the sector of sport..., I like to remember that it represents a 2-percent of our gross domestic product, according to the latest data from the Observatory of Sport, in Catalonia, without forgetting the millions and millions of people who practice sports or practice physical activity on a regular basis. And, in view of the effects of the pandemic at the sport, economic, labour and social level caused by the conjunction of the sports and physical activity sector in Catalonia, since the Government we have wanted to promote a combination of measures to mitigate this impact on the sports entities themselves. With the aim of putting in place concrete actions to deal with these effects, since the Department of the Presidency we have been at all times and we have wanted to be at all times at the expense of the entities of our country and to collect first hand the problems of the sector. One of the actions promoted was the constant convening of the highest representatives of the sports sector in Catalonia by means of a sectoral work table. In fact, since its constitution – last April – until today we have met with the sector to share the difficulties and thus channel the concerns and requests. And we've done it often, with a lot of periodicity. So, from the government we have used these meetings with a double objective. The first is to transfer to the entire sector the information on the actions that the government was about to take to the end in order to stimulate or mitigate the effects of the pandemic. And also another objective, to collect and share the concerns of the sport sector in order to be able to act according to the needs of the agents who conform to the system. Among the recurring demands and needs of sports entities and companies dedicated to the promotion of sports practice, we highlight the economic and liquidity aspect and the adaptation of the regulations that we have dictated. And it is in this sense that the first part of this decree empowers the Catalan Council of the Sport for the setting up of extraordinary and emergency aids in order to deal with the suspension of the public opening of the installations and of the sports equipment in Catalonia, which we had to decree for a long time, therefore, all those actions necessary in the management of this second issue. The suspension of this activity and the closure of facilities and sports equipment during the month of November has – and we are aware – had a difficult economic and social impact of essential character in the field of sport and physical activity in Catalonia. And this justifies the adoption of extraordinary and emergency measures aimed at trying to deal with the consequences of this suspension. And among these extraordinary measures is a line of help with 25_million euros that aims to promote the economic sustainability of the sector of sport and physical activity in Catalonia, contribute to the maintenance and continuity of its activity, and mitigate the economic and social effects that can be produced in this area. I would like to point out that this is not the first appearance to present additional economic measures for the sport sector I have done in this Parliament. In fact, if you recall, we will already do the debate in your day and the validation of the Decree Law 15/2020, for which at that time the Catalan Council of the Esport was authorized to provide guarantee during the year 2020 up to a maximum overall amount of 10_million euros in favor of the Catalan Institute of Finance for the setting up of loans that would facilitate the liquidity of the sports entities registered in the Register of Sports Entities affected by the situation arising from the Covid-19. It was during this 2020 that we also wanted to ensure and expand all grant calls to respond to this complicated pandemic situation. And, in concrete terms, they have worked on other extraordinary measures to be able to reach the entire affected sector, actions that have made available to the sector 35_million euros more than initially foreseen, before the onset of this pandemic. And, in concrete terms, in this Decree Law..., it should be pointed out that, while the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge has attributed, among others, the competence to promote and promote initiatives in the field of enterprise that are of interest for the competitiveness of the economy, this Decree precisely empowers the Catalan Council of the Esport to convene, process and resolve the line of alleged help, since it is a public body and, because of its scope in the field of activity, has a direct connection between the sports sector and physical activity in Catalonia. In this way it guarantees the maximum simplification and administrative speed in the processing of these extraordinary and emergency aids, which can be as much for sports entities – let's remember – as for businesses in the sector. The beneficiaries of this line of help are the holders of the management of sports facilities in Catalonia, private sports entities without purpose of work and which are registered in the Register of Sports Entities of the Generality of Catalonia. Here we are talking about clubs, federations, councils, foundations, and also about all those companies that manage sports facilities according to the heading suitable for sports installations or also schools and sports improvement services. We are also talking here about clubs, federations and sports councils, and also the sector's entrepreneurs, mainly gymnasiums. And they are excluded as beneficiaries of this line of help in the locals of Catalonia, for which this decree law – after I talk about it – already creates an extraordinary additional fund for this 2020. Also legal persons participating in more than 50_per_cent per public capital and those self-employed who also have a specific share of help from the Government. Thus, and following this process, the Catalan Council of the Esport has already published the two resolutions of the bases and the call: the resolution that was published on 25 November, for which the regulatory bases were approved for the granting of these extraordinary and emergency aids to deal with the suspension of the opening to the public of sports facilities here in Catalonia as a consequence of Covid-19, and also the resolution of 26 November, for which the call for the granting of these extraordinary and emergency aids is opened. So let's know that today – we are at 15 December – the call has already been resolved, and finally they will get help a total of 1,234 entities, among which there are 680 companies, 12 foundations and 542 sports entities. Another fact to highlight and which I also want to put in value is that the forecast of the Government has been well provided, and with the import we have anticipated, these 25_million euros that I have already mentioned, we have been able to cover all the requests that complement the requirements of the bases. Therefore, the import of the help is based on the number of square meters of the surface of the sports spaces, the sports facility, collected at the Cens d'équipements esportius de Catalunya, and the nature of the sports facility affected by the measure of suspension of the opening to the public. In the event that the person requesting management of more than one sports facility affected by the suspension of the opening to the public, the maximum amount of the aid is 250,000_EUR– therefore, has a topall. Economic reports and forecasts of demand and assumptions for the government have complemented all expectations. All requesting entities that comply with the conditions laid down in the call and the bases may benefit from the grant. And once this first analysis of the requests, as I said, almost brings up the total of these 25_million euros that we had predicted, without any entity that fulfilled the requirements remaining outside the competitive competition concession procedure. And so far this first part of this decree, in relation to the world of sport. And now, therefore, to account for the part of the decree that affects the local world. A local world that – I always like to put it in value – has also been in the first fight against the pandemic and has been due to end all those expenses not initially foreseen in the presuppost 2020. And he's been at the edge of the cane also managing the pandemic from the first moment to the edge of the city and also, as I said, holding on to some surviving expenses. And from the Government of Catalonia, in this sense, we have undertaken to accompany them in these expenses arising from the management of the Covid-19. And this decree reads what it also does is to create this extraordinary additional fund for this 2020 for the local authorities, endowed with 20_million euros, to finance the measures they adopt in the face, like the gods, of this health, economic and social crisis generated by the Covid-19. From here, I'd like to make a parenthesis. This extraordinary local cooperation fund is endowed with €120_million: €20_million immediately for this 2020, and €100_million already committed by 2021, the first 50 for the first quarter of 2021 and the remaining 50 for the rest of the year. But they understand, therefore, that this health crisis also results in an economic and social crisis of a high magnitude and that, therefore, it will also generate more expenditure on local authorities, from the Government of Catalonia, we have also determined this amount for fiscal year 2021, so that the assemblies, now that they are making their municipal assumptions for 2021, already have this extraordinary support part on the part of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia in its finances in order to mitigate the effects, as I said, of this health crisis, but above all 2021 will be economic and social. They will be able to benefit from these foundations all in the locals, the assemblies, the local councils and the General Council of Aran, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona for the area of Barcelones and the decentralized municipal entities. In concrete terms, this extraordinary background of these 20_millions for 2020 is distributed as follows: EUR 13_million for all municipalities of Catalonia, EUR 6_million for distribution between the Aran and the rest of the regional councils of Catalonia – except Barcelones –, EUR 287,000 for the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and EUR 56,000 for the decentralised municipal entities of Catalonia. And, finally, to account for the third part of the law decree, which refers, in this case, to the field of education in the classroom and extra-curricular activities, while in this case Councillor Bargalló already gave them the appropriate explanations to the past Ple, when he validated Decree 41/2020. And it is that, as you know, by amending this Decree to Law 41/2020, extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in education in the classroom and in extra-curricular activities, establishing an extraordinary aid of urgency in three different ways with which it is intended to respond to the different specificities of the sector: the manner of activities specifically of education– we are talking about those daily pleasures, dills to diverge, or of escorted groups that make the end of the week– ; we are talking, after, about the mode for extracurricular activities, and the third mode is that it refers to youth facilities. And, from here, the result of the willingness that the given response is as appropriate to the singularities of the education sector and of the extra-curricular activities, the first two modalities have been reviewed both for what it does to the beneficiaries and for the imports of the aid. In this sense, it was considered appropriate to increase aid in educational activities carried out by dilluns to be sold by matching them with non-formal activities to the effect of aid. And, for the sake of education activities in the end of the week, provision has been made for a simplification of the application procedure in order to make it more expeditious and to make it possible for aid directed to entities belonging either to a federation or to a coordinator of educational entities to be secured through federations and coordinators whenever these entities and their federations are registered in the Cens d'entités jeunes of the Directorate-General for Youth of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families. And, lastly, and to give effect to the Government's willingness to respond to all requests with the right to help, it eliminates – this is important – the forecast of the allocation of grants according to the chronological order of submission of requests and establishes the extension of the presuppositional endowment in case the grant expires in order to meet all requests that meet the requirements to be beneficiaries. Tell them that today we have approximately three thousand requests submitted. And, therefore, this is the situation in which he is at this moment in this law decree. Therefore, I present to you today this decree of law for its validation, which extends the aid to these affected sectors, affected by the measures that have taken a long time to combat this Covid-19 and the consequences that this pandemic has generated. And they ask them, therefore, to vote in favour of their validation. Many thanks, deputies, deputies, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.66.0	Thank you, Counselor. We are now following the intervention of the parliamentary groups. And, in the first place, has the word, in the name of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.67.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, good afternoon to everyone. We are faced with one of those decrees that usually bring the last plenarys, framed, unfortunately, in the context of the pandemic that surrounds us and that has been the fruit of the debate in this plenary as well. One of those decrees which, in our view, are therefore late and bad, and with aid that we consider to be insufficient; insufficient in absolute terms, but also insufficient in the comparison that this Government's accounts reveal in other respects, such as privileges or waste to those we have already referred to repeatedly during this parliamentary term. At the very least, it is to be thanked that you do not include in these decrees armoring the salaries of senior officials or privileges to former presidents, as we have already seen you have done in this pandemic itself. They deal, as the Councillor has explained in the specific case, with three main areas: the relationship of the Administration of the Generalitat with the local authorities; you also refer to the sports sector, and, lastly, to activities of lleure, extra-curricular activities and some arising, also, from education. About the local authorities, I'm going to make it quite clear to you. You're talking about maybe it'll expand with an extra 100 million euros, but let's talk about the tangible, because we already know the government's promises. Help directly seems ridiculous to us, and I'm going to try to justify it. You allocate 20_million_of_euros, for which you have already made a distribution, and we know the specific allocation there is for each municipality. Well, look, for Barcelona, for Tarragona, for Girona, for Hospitalet de Llobregat, for Garriga, for Santa Coloma de Gramanet, for Cornellá, for Tarrasa, for Manresa, this aid, this allocation, does not reach a 1_per_cent of its municipal budget. I don't know... you've managed, you've managed locally. With a help that doesn't reach 1_per_cent of the budget I don't know how to cover everything you said about what the municipalities have had to assume by the pandemic. But if we put it also in terms of aid per capita, we could say – that is, to take the population of these municipalities, the aid, and divide it –, not even one euro per inhabitant in 90_per_cent of the municipalities of Catalonia. You don't even give them a call to 061, when you had it paid for the pandemic. But look also at the paradox: the debt you hold with the municipalities, dated October 2020, which is the last updated information we have, around 100_million_euros; it's five times more than the help you give. And all that you owe to the municipalities with a firm sentence, on account of what you owe from the Bressol schools, also exceeds this amount. With this we could say that it is the municipalities that are financing this own aid. I'm telling you, this comes from afar, your management with the municipalities. And we have also had the opportunity to debate..., it would be summed up that they do not pay what they have to pay, they do not assume the competences they must assume, and, moreover, they do not grant, grant, aid or significant financing or co-financing projects. And if it is harmful for it to be managed in the area of municipalities, it has not been much better in the area of the sports sector, a sector that has been demanding better funding for years. You made the reference: a 2_per_cent of GDP. For a 2_per_cent of GDP..., I think it would correspond to the historical claim of the sector, of at least 1_per_cent of the budget, something that is not so. And it would also be appropriate to declare, as stated and as citizens in this Parliament, the sector as an essential activity, something that you have not considered at any time during the pandemic. Instead, we see how you water the Catalan proselection platforms while other non-profit sports entities or entities that promote inclusive sport are directly ignored. And, specifically, to this aid contained in the decree... you say you've spoken to the sector. We too, and what they tell us is that it is not the most efficient method of allocation, which are not the criteria that can reach a greater number of entities. Because you link it to a factor that is fundamental, that is the installation for the granting of the aid, and this would leave out a very high percentage of sports entities in Catalonia. But, come on, we're also not going to expect great things from you as far as the allocation of help is concerned, because when you don't have to give it to your friends you get lost. And we've seen it, haven't we? , on the issue of self-government. We are not going to ask you to establish transparency criteria or fair criteria for those who do not perform them on a regular basis. And, going back to the sports area, I think the height of his bad management we've seen during this legislature, right? See how the secretary general of l'Esport is accused of alleged corruption, see how he constantly has to go to testify. And I think it is perverse that information should appear where someone could allegedly have taken over, and, on the other hand, it does not meet the needs of the sports sector, which is on the verge of ruin. And we know..., we believe that you are impervious to all this, that you will do nothing in the face of this information, in the face of this research. Because, in fact, you choose in your primary people who are being investigated for corruption. Look, I think that Citizens' position on the decree is clear: we cannot vote in favour because we do not consider the aid to be sufficient, and even in some cases I have categorized it as ridiculous, because it seems ridiculous to me, if we see the real impact it is going to have. But at the end of the day, we can't oppose any help, no matter how small or how small, as this is the case, can we? But I, based on the message that the decree itself sends, don't I? I do want to focus on the end of my speech with a reflection. And it is that I think it is worthy of study and amazing how in a context of pandemic, in a context of crisis, of a serious situation that goes through Catalonia, despite the fact that the citizens and the economic sectors have risen – and I think that rightly – against the political class, especially against those who have responsibilities of government, you have resisted and have not touched one of their privileges or the waste that appears in your accounts. It's amazing that they haven't changed anything, that they haven't touched their weeds, that they haven't touched the chiringuites. We have even seen cases of alleged corruption occur in the midst of the pandemic, and you have therefore remained impassable, as you usually do. Today is the last plenary session of this legislature, it is – surely – my last intervention in this legislature, but I believe that with this decree they continue to give exactly the same message that they have been giving all these years. And I'll give you some example, based on facts, numbers and government action. For you it is more important to maintain a NASA or cybersecurity agency than to help the affected sectors. And that's not what I'm saying, Counselor, it's reflected in your budgets. Or it is more important to maintain state structures than to guarantee the government action of local authorities, as we have seen, and even some of their mayors say. Or it is more important to keep embassies than to keep the tourism sector, to help the hospitality at a time like this, and we see this in the 75_million_euros per year that costs us their external action. Or it is more important – a classic already – to maintain its digital republic than to save sectors such as nightlife, such as trade fairs or non-sedentary sales, among others. And it is more important to give help to your friends..., that we have even seen how they have used the emergency process that allowed the state of alarm to give contracts and bid with companies that confessed to trials that had forgiven you bills. And I refer to the facts, Counselor. I believe that, given this situation, the best news is that this government, this legislature, has an expiry date, and that in a few weeks we will be able to return to the polls, as long as the pandemic situation permits, right? And I am sure that, think what you think and vote what you vote for, the Catalans have taken note of their management. And we will go to the streets, to the neighborhoods, to the plazas of Catalonia, also to explain us, also within the margin that allows us the pandemic. And we are going to do it with illusion and with the conviction that we really have an alternative for Catalonia, and that citizens do not have to endure administrations that neither do they nor plunder them, as you have done all these years. And to explain also that Catalonia deserves a government that is able to manage day by day, but also a pandemic situation like the one we are experiencing, because even its reference epidemiologists say that it would be easier to work for the government of the Community of Madrid. And, of course, we consider that you are not prepared to drive the future and to drive the challenges that Catalonia needs. I am convinced, comrades, that we will be able to create a civic, transversal, plural front that poses a real alternative to everything we have. Because, as I said on more than one occasion – you have heard me here – I believe that opposing your government is not a political action, it is directly a moral obligation. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.68.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Óscar Ordeig. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.69.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Budo, good late. MPs, MPs, members of the government who may be feeling us at these moments... Well, first of all, speak of Decree 43/2020 of 17 November. It narrows down three very different themes, with considerations that in some cases we agree and others that we would surely make a different and differentiated valuation. But in the end, as we also have to cast a full vote, from the Socialist Group and the Forwarding Units, they understand that there are elements that we have defended in this House on various occasions in the sport world, also in the field of reading, and so we agree; that we have invited the Government or we have reflected with the Government and with parliamentary groups that we have to start lines of help; that we have to talk with the affected sector to see how we have overcome this difficult situation; that we understand that we have all experienced a process of learning about what was going on in the month of April, what is going on in the summer and what is going on in the past, and how we are going on in the past, as well as in the past. I think the heaviest part of this decree, a little bit grabbing the thread of some of the things that Ciutadan's spokesman has said, is certainly what he refers to local governments. It's the weakest part, because there are a lot of joints in the country that have big assumptions and have had very important deficits or expenses for Covid. They're the ones on the first line of fire, and they're the ones who have to give the first answer. And surely this funding, this help we give them, it's very, very short, insufficient. And, besides, with what he was saying, too, we don't guarantee the bulk of funding in the joint. We were pleased to see that the 2021 financing bulk had been armored; these 100_millions, which had remained armored. What about the difficulties that we understand and empathize with the government and the sector...? What about the difficulties of entities, associations, sports clubs, sports facilities, which they saw as the week before the week had to close the activity to 100_per_cent? And here we also ask the government to do what it can to try to ensure that there is no re-containment of the hundred in certain sectors such as sport, but that we try to re-open, in a safe way, with less capacity of the hundred, as is being done, so that we do not have to re-enclose. Because this is the great learning that I think we've done all these months, too. That is to say, between everything or nothing we may have to look for that balance – that the government is in charge of looking for it –... the parliamentary groups must try to contribute to that balance that makes us not penalize much of a sector at cent_per_cent, and, in change, others see how it turns out that..., it may be more widespread manicure and perhaps the problems come for them. Because, surely, with the gymnasiums closed, some of the problems we haven't avoided. Therefore, restrictions, yes; safe sports activity, yes; but, please, we try to ensure a certain activity. And, then, what we also say in the appearance of the Secretary General of Sport, who we spoke to us at length: someone analyzed the consequences on salvation, on the mental salvation of our infants, of our people, with so many months of restrictions in sports practice? Or is sports practice a hobby that has no influence on the mental and physical health of our society? Precisely it affects more negatively those infants who surely do not have any opportunities or who do not have that support in their families that they need, and precisely they are the ones who ask for it most. Therefore, this must also be taken into account where decisions are taken, and we ask, counsel, that this be taken into account. As today they have also taken into account a very important decision that announced the same councillor, which is allowing mobility between an area of the Pyrenees and Andorra, because many times we are... I live in deu_quilómetres d'Andorra, and many family, work and social relationships are with Andorra, much more than an administrative barrier and separate; much more than with Lleida, than with Barcelona, than with Tarragona or with Zaragoza. Just as the companies in Ribagorça are also in contact with the Aragonese, with the Aragonese mountain, and they have many more relationships – from school, commercial and of all kinds, history – than with other places. Therefore, we must try to take the decisions know the reality of the sector, giving recollection to the sector. And, therefore, here too, what it touches is to say that we are at the side of sports entities, private businesses – that they have also been forced to close and have to be helped... So, I wouldn't differentiate the entities so much here... the sports clubs, yes; private sports companies, no. No, no. Listen, you have to lock up, you have to make it up to me. And that's what we're doing here. Therefore, we have defended the foundation of 25_million euros. We believe that more measures are needed, we believe that they should have been taken before, but we are in favour of them and we are calling on the government now, or when it is in operation, to continue working with sports entities. For another band, we also agree that some adjustments have been made to the measures in educational centres and in the field of education and education. Speaking to the spokesman of our group, Mrs Niubó, said to me: "Home, therefore, it was important to change the criteria for distributing these aids, as has already been said here, that they were not by chronological order to submit the request. Why don't we go back to what's already happened to us and we've all been a little embarrassed, because of the situation that was given on the fateful day of the call for help to the autonomists. Therefore, we have changed this, correct; we have amended Decree 41/2020; we will make an expansion of the game if necessary, perfect. And, above all, we do not exclude the field of education from the importance we give to school education. Education in the Church, as we have said before, is very important, and especially in those families and those most vulnerable infants or those entities that carry a long tradition of activity and education in the Church. Like what we give with the paradigmatic example of all this: 80_percent reduction of activity to colognes. Of course, the one who doesn't devote himself to it may not notice it so much, but the one who really didn't make his profession, his life, his jobs, that affect..., so, man, he cares a lot about him. Therefore, we agree. So, when I say that..., I'll try to be thoughtful, we'll try to be fair in the appreciation of what we're presenting today. As far as we're about a few elections or a campaign, listen, there's no reason to say that, in the field of sport, in the field of reading and educational centers, it's what we're asking for, it's what we're collecting. But then we must say that, in the area of local governments, we hoped that there would be a more important game. There's a lot of gatherings in our house. We have been pleased that the decentralised municipal entities have more finance, because they are so small and have such a small financial structure, the decentralised municipal entities, and have such a large territory that many times..., not to face the pandemic... ; nor to face up to asphalting the roads, or to come up with the light, many times. Therefore, it may be useful here to reflect on the effects of the pandemic on the local world; to reflect on, also, other incompliments that we have pending with the local world, the problems of financing; also, obviously, a clear dialogue and a frank debate with the local world, and to plan for the next years to see how we can pay the outstanding debts; to make a just financing, and, like that of the pandemic, the effects of the pandemic we will pay them, unfortunately, for a while, to see how we actually set up commitments that, if we come to the future government, then guarantee them. In addition, we have a vantage point: we all know that public funds will come here and money will come to do more things. So, I think we're not asking to do everything here, because obviously we can't do everything, but I do think we need to point the support measures to the different sectors affected, and with this learning that we give, so, man, try to give this message, until now, at a time when we will soon dissolve Parliament... Therefore, it will also be necessary to create an inertia, a message from all the groups, from the government and from all the parliamentary groups, to say: "Listen, come who comes, there are a few least that will be completed, a few least that are focused, some difficulties that will be met. And, hard as hard, so, man, that can go away. So, as I said, in summary, in favour of aid, in favour of some corrections. The weakest part is the part that refers to local governments. Some, surely, arrive a little late, and therefore we would have wanted to be able to approve it before. But in any case, because your approval is not a problem, our group will abstain in this decree. In any case, many thanks to all, Members, Members, Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.70.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, ara, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the words of the MP Concepción Abellán. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.71.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Councillor, this decree deals with three issues. The first two are new, which are a local fund for extraordinary cooperation and a new line of aid to the sport sector, and the last corrects an earlier decree, 41/2020, which deals with the field of leisure education and extra-curricular activities to deal with the consequences of the Covid. On the local fund of extraordinary cooperation, we continue without novelty and remain in line with how they have been doing things: late and bad. In our case, we have already demanded, since the beginning of the state of alarm, that resources be mobilized for municipalities and other local centres. The answer comes six months later and with a budget allocation far below what is expected, but far below what is currently needed in our cities and towns: a budget of 120_million_de_euros – 20_million now and 50 plus 50 during the year 2021 – funds that should serve for the municipalities to respond to the economic and social crisis that we will have over the coming months or years. Even though they have claimed these funds since the start of the state of alarm, they have ignored us and enabled an absolutely insufficient allocation. So that you can get an idea, the City Council of Barcelona has enabled an emergency fund to deal with the crisis caused by the 90_million_euro Covid, councillor–90. Do you really believe that the Government of the Generalitat can only enable 30_million more and for all of Catalonia? I don't get the numbers. I don't know if they're coming out of you. As in all the decrees we see, they are late, and it is demonstrated, because many municipalities have already approved budget changes to enable emergency funds. The Government of Catalonia must assume responsibility for local authorities. The implementation of the security protocols approved by the Generalitat de Catalunya entails increased expenditure on municipalities, which in no case has been foreseen or accompanied by economic resources, while income is severely damaged. The Government has to increase the announced extraordinary fund with a minimum amount of EUR 150_million in 2020 and the same amount by the year 2021, with the aim of responding from the administration closest to the citizen. These measures are necessary to revive local economies and meet the new social needs generated by this pandemic, and it is their duty as governments to support municipalities and not leave them to their fate. Make an effort, because you can do it. With regard to the section on sports, on the allocation of EUR 25 million for grants to the management of closed sports facilities due to the Covid, welcome are the aid to a sector also heavily punished by the pandemic and the measures provided. In this case, a 25_million_euro aid line is enabled from which they can be beneficiaries – and I quote Article 7.1 textually –: "The persons holding the management of sports facilities or equipment in Catalonia may be beneficiaries of the aid line referred to in Article 6 of this Decree-Law. Conclusion, any company or entity. Here lies our main divergence. Couldn't another formula have been sought? I'll explain myself. With this line of aid, what they are actually doing is helping companies that have had to close. In addition, this was recognized by the secretary general of l'Esport himself at the last appearance in committee of the CAI. Could they not have sought another way of prioritizing aid? Could they not have sought ways in which the entities that do basic work, that help the cohesion of our neighbourhoods, that train boys and girls in the values of effort, discipline, community and equality, and that most of them do not have facilities to manage, could also have access to this aid package? As it is done, this support package leaves 80_per_cent of the entities, federations and clubs out, which are the ones that mostly move sport in our neighborhoods and villages. The other day the secretary general of l'Esport said in commission that there were more than eighteen_ thousand entities, associations and clubs. And here, Counselor, you have commented that the aid has reached approximately one thousand and two hundred – about six hundred of them, entities. This data, in our view, is a shame. They are no reason to rejoice and lift up the wing. From our point of view, non-profit entities that do not manage facilities but have suffered a significant loss of revenue should have been prioritized, as there is no competition. Therefore, there are no lockers, no sponsors, nor their social premises can work, and, in turn, they continue to have fixed expenses. Although most workers are volunteers – which the Secretary General himself already said – they receive income from travel and diets. And, as we said, they have run out of these revenues; for, to the situation without usual revenues, we must add to that lack of sponsors. Many of them have also stopped receiving membership fees or have had to suspend extra-curricular activities. This whole scenario is causing an apocalyptic situation for many clubs, entities and associations. The Secretary General of l'Esport must devote herself to supporting these entities, federations and clubs, and not companies. Companies, such as gymnasiums, can take advantage of other aid granted by other departments, such as Enterprise. Another concept of the decree that would heal us is to enable the Català de l'Esport Council to give this aid not only to the entities, but also to the companies, something that had not happened until now. And it's something we don't understand, or it's that we don't really want to understand. Welcome is the EUR 25 million, but we do not agree with the priorities or criteria for access to these aid. With regard to the additional provision for partial amendment of Decree-Law 41/2010 of 10 November 2010 on extraordinary measures of a social nature in educational establishments and in the field of léure education and extra-curricular activities to deal with the consequences of the Covid, we have already shown a favourable view of it. And, in this case, therefore, in our opinion, it improves some aspects that we could say technical, better distinguishing companies from entities and others. That is why we are going to abstain from the entire decree, because in the end they enable resources – resources. And, despite not agreeing on criteria or quantities, this is better than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.72.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the turn, now, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. It's the return to Congressman Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.73.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counsel... well, I anticipate the position of our group for what it does to this decree or to this set of decrees in one will be forbearance, and now I will explain the motive. First of all, what we see is that the government has accumulated decrees that we consider to be natural not only cosmetic, but natural every time more pre-electoral, as they are decrees through which the government wants to appear to be very active in public policies, but then, when we see the reality of these decrees, we see that they are completely limited and insufficient. Therefore, we could say a lot of sound for king or a lot of sound for almost king. If we go into concrete terms into the three aspects that this decree develops, for which it does to the fund destined for the municipality, it is indeed relevant. Is there a decree that I transfer economic resources to the municipality at these times? Of course I do. Therefore, from this point of view, we agree. Even so, as the previous Members and Members have already said, imports are so inadequate that, despite our local reality and the public policies of emergence that will take place at these times, and if that is what we add to the shortcomings that the assemblies are already grappling for in the development of their competences, then we will see that the amount that comes to this policy and that can reach the assemblies is ultimately irrelevant, insignificant. And if you don't, ask him at the gatherings; really, he'll tell them what impact he'll have on his bows. Obviously, they won't say no, they don't want the money. But if we add the answer to the crisis more to the weakness that is already reddened by the usual skills, it is really irrelevant. And, indeed, what you need to do is boost local action at these times. It may be empowered to intervene in the assemblies, to facilitate the intervention of the assemblies – therefore, to develop public policies from the Generality that facilitate and enhance the ability of the assemblies to intervene – and to repeal state laws, as far as possible, that prevent them. Because, effectively, the joints have and will have a central responsibility to develop shock plans to respond to the crisis at the social level, at the housing level, also at the employment generation level, etc. The assemblies will also have a functional function in the educational, cultural, and, of course, even in the health field. They're already doing it, and they're doing it by taking on a huge extra effort. And, therefore, this requires an attitude on the part of the government that you are up and that we at these times do not know how to see. For what he does to sports, we could say a little the same thing. Sport has a functional function in our society and in our country. The sport is proving that it is safe, that it has made a huge effort to be a safe space. It is said that the schools are secure spaces; so look, the sport too. On the other hand, you greatly restrict sports activity, put sports entities in crisis and do not equip them after the proper provision. I believe that if you speak more and better to the sports sector, you will surely come to different conclusions. And it's that what I want to do is to facilitate the activity of the sports sector, to recognize the effort that has already been made in the field of health prevention and to make it easier for it to do even more. And, obviously, in recognition of this practice too, do whatever it takes so that the sports sector can continue with its activity. And, look, you know, because the sports sector doesn't stop complaining about it, we'll do it now and here on its claims: a sectoral table with the departments involved in the containment of the pandemic, a contingency plan, scribble with PCRs in the sports sector, a recovery plan and a rescue fund. And, for what it does to popular sport, format and basic, and which is fundamental from the point of view of public salvation, one of the instruments of public salvation must be the practice of sport, it also includes all its reality of community action, and, therefore, of cohesion and inclusiveness. Retrieve and facilitate your activity safely. Direct aid to entities in the sport sector in the face of fixed expenditure payments during the year 2020 for an import equivalent to the percentage of accredited losses compared to the same period of 19– an obvious one. Facilitate the municipalization of the sports services. And to facilitate – another time we talk about the local world – a municipal foundation for the guarantee and practice of the sport. And finally, for what he does to out-of-school activities and leurea, we could say exactly the same thing. It's a decree that may have good intentions, but it's absolutely insufficient, if we see what reality it has to fulfill. A lecture and extracurricular activities – we also have to include musical and artistic activities – that are fundamental from the point of view of education and that should be a public service of universal and free access. As a minimum, while rescuing entities, rescuing workers, and facilitating families who can access them with direct help to families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.74.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Manuel Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.75.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, Members of Parliament, today the Government presents us with a decree, with a series of aids that arrive at the last plenary session of the legislature, already almost like an electoral slogan: "Now or never; either we launch these proposals now or we no longer arrive, we are late. This Government has been towing throughout the pandemic. It has not dialogued, it has not agreed, it has not taken into account the different sectors when health restrictions imposed the unemployment of certain productive sectors, or also in the case of sport. Today they bring us an extraordinary fund that, for the municipal sphere, for the municipalities, for the 947 municipalities of Catalonia, are only 13_million_de_euros– only 13_million_de_euros – when in Catalan NASA, 18_million_de_euros. Man, we think it's a joke for Catalan municipalism, for so many municipalities that have been on the front line in this pandemic. And it also comes in the discount time, in the month of December. Madam Councillor, you know that the municipal governments – the municipal governments that are serious, those that are responsible – have already presented the municipal budget and have approved it to be in force on 1 January. Therefore, these resources are late. In addition, it is a fund that is conditional on municipal governments having done their duties and having submitted a certain documentation referring to the year 2018 in time and form. And those municipalities that have not done so, do neighbours have to pay for the consequences of those governments? It cannot be that these municipalities or neighbours are left out of such aid, of those scarce EUR 13 million. But you also pointed out to us – and, as you said before, as an electoral slogan – these 100_million_of_euros; 100_million_of_euros by 2021. That's right, the last one to come in and pay. Anyone who comes from February to pay, that this government makes the launch, launches the proposal, but those who come later, to pay – to pay, right? Well, therefore, pure and hard electoralism. You've been more, and you know it. And I understand. « It's just that governing with Esquerra is complicated. Sure. You've wasted a lot of time in those internal battles and I'm sure you'll be right. But, man, they must rule for all Catalans, they must be a serious and responsible government. You're late with the geriatric residences. They're late with the EPIs. They haven't arrived at the outpatient clinics or the hospitals. They have not been able to cope with the digital divide that many citizens, which many students, unfortunately, have had during this past academic year. With the issue of taxes: the more people were dying in Catalonia..., you were raising the tax on inheritances and donations. The less tourists Catalonia had, the higher the tourist rate. The less resources people had, the more IRPF has to pay. But, eye, the most vulnerable families: 20,5_per_cent in the minimum tranche, the one that all pay, all taxpayers; the highest in all Spain. Yes, here, in Catalonia, with this government. Don't say no, counselor. The less cars are sold... now it turns out that we're raising the CO2 emissions tax. The more teleworking people do, the more we increase the canon to energy production centres and telecommunications networks. To the contrary. You go in the opposite direction, as you have done with nightlife, with restoration, with tourism in general. And sport has not been the exception. You have not considered sport as an essential service, and sport is health. Sport is health and they haven't had it on the table. They have therefore forgotten those million-dollar investments that have been made by many sports centres. And you were talking about the 2_per_cent of GDP, the 2.1_per_cent of Catalan GDP that sport entails. But what about those fifty-thousand people who have been in ERTE or unemployment? How have they been able to live or survive between March and December? When the aid arrives, supposedly, now, and is conditioned on the money being given to the Català de l'Esport Council, when it is beyond the scope of the company, when we are talking about sports companies. Therefore, these aids will not arrive tomorrow, because they will be subject to how these aids are regulated. Therefore, we do not share this measure, in the sense that it is merely electoral, that we do not know when sports centers are going to charge and that many have stayed at the stake – many remain at the stake. Therefore, it is a call that comes late, that we hope it is not a new lottery to see who arrives first in this race, in this electoral straight that you have with your governing partners and therefore, moreover, is insufficient. And finally, with the subject of extracurricular activities, of lleure, youth entities, it is also, of course, late. There are many people whose salaries depend on whether these aids can come and, of course, they will come next year. Therefore, management of this government, zero; result, zero, and, fortunately, elections, very soon. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.76.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Núria Picas has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.77.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs, Councilwoman Budo... Miri, Mr. Dimas, I kept that from me in the end, but I can't take it any longer. You..., your intervention with the usual song: that if we talk about squealers, if you put your hand in the box, if corruption... Today I will not answer them, to their provocations, because I think today we have come here to defend a decree for the sake of sport and our country. You've been talking about good news, I'm sure. For me, the good news is that today we finish this legislature and that very probably in the next legislature..., look, you..., today in count four – one, two, three, four –, and less than a third of this bench, by luck, will not be here. And that, really, is the good news. And, to the band of this, speaking of the decree that we have here today on the table, an important decree in the constant struggle of the Government, a struggle that affects us all and that is a decree that, from the start, generates this extraordinary new foundation of 20_million euros to the Catalan locals and that helps a lot of gatherings, that are, in the end and in the end, that are always working at the edge of the dog. We put all the support to the local world – we said it today to the restructuring committee and we said it last week to the debate on the European foundations Next Generation – ; we put all the support because the assemblies can fight the pandemic, and they call for the local world to be involved in the decisions and in the new projects. A local world that, as we recall, is experiencing a very harsh moment, a critical moment, since its democratic restructuring more than forty years ago. It is the gatherings, in the end and in the end, that first face any crisis, and now they are an authentic saying of containment against this pandemic and that they are making a great deal of effort. It is the joints that work together to implement these approved measures and, as I said before, it is the joints that are working at a short distance. And all this along with structural problems such as lack of funding, such as lack of skills and resources, or lack of coordination and real cooperation, which make this problem even more difficult today. For all this, any help, any appeals will be positive. We are aware that this is about a major flood of entrances and, therefore, it still has more value. We also applaud our Government's commitment today to this contribution of EUR 20_million, but we still applaud more than, from 2021, in the accounts of this EUR 20_million will be EUR 100_million. And that's the compromise and we hope it's that way. And, all folded, vital, because the municipalities and the local world can continue to fight the little of the cano during the proper months. That said, so the same decree that we validate today allocates this 25_million euros to the sports equipment affected, therefore, for this segment of the activity. This contribution will be channelled through the Català de l'Esport Council. And, as has been said, this €25 million heading aims to help promote the economic sustainability of the sector and ensure the continuity of all sports activities. Because you, Members of each parliamentary group, have already said this, you have stressed the importance of keeping us active, of making sport. In fact, the same World Health Organization is the one that is pressing and telling us to keep us active, not only for physical salvation, but also for mental salvation, because salvation and sport, so they are bound by the hand. And especially in such a tough year, where we're all more locked up than ever, sport as a social integration tool, so, it's as pale as ever. And for our emotional well-being, we need to stay active and continue to do what we like the most. Sport is key in our society. No one has the magic key to this pandemic, it's hard times, but we need to put a lot on our side. In fact, what I like to say to me: continue playing the samarreta to make it possible. Unfortunately, however, sport, aside from being important, is one of the worst sectors for this pandemic, it will be very difficult to recover and, unfortunately, many sectors will be unable to raise their heads. Therefore, I would like to make an incis: clubs, entities, sports associations and, above all, the amateur sports base in which catal sports are based, they need more than ever, therefore, these aids and they need to have the support of the Generalitat, which they can accompany and which have all the guarantees on the table. Put the economic support above all right now. From the Republican Left, in all possible areas, we have also insisted, we have worked as hard as we could to make this availability possible and why all the help, subsidies, credits, therefore, come to a good port to keep this sporty texture alive and help us overcome this bad change. These 25_million euros will help, therefore, to a great extent, to economic sustainability and to be able to maintain and continue activities by many companies and companies. But, to the band of this – I already told the last committee, to the committee of the CAI, of the Institutional Centers –, these aids were intended for all sports entities, therefore, that have an installation to maintain. Here in our country – I who come from the world of the mountain – we find that we also have many sports entities that are not worth an installation, that their installations are serious, like the one that says, therefore, the same mountain. Therefore, this aid package is more suitable for clubs that have to take care of an installation: football clubs, basketball clubs, handball clubs that have powerful federations at the back. And what happens to these other entities, to these clubs that continue to pay a few expenses, a few subs to the workers, that continue to pay social security? So that's what we're worried about, we're worried about, and it's something we don't want to leave behind, because we don't want any of our fabric to get out of play. I'm sure the new help to local professionals, announced a few days ago for Vice President Aragonès, will help in part this segment, but not everything. Therefore, we want to insist, that it seems perfect to us the help of the decree, but it takes a specific look because it allows us to identify these more vulnerable cases and thus confront the needs of any entity, any club and association of our country. And maybe a formula similar to the last part of this decree, set up to give help to the educated, would be enough to finish coming to the whole Catalan sport world. Says this point, as I said, this decree also allows us, in a remote future, to help self-employed entities, businesses or professionals that carry out sports activities, out-of-school activities for children and young people, and youth facility managers, whether in hotels, colony houses or classrooms of nature; different help lines for different youth and children needs. So, we support this decree, the validity; we support the local world to give support to the world of sport and to continue to support the world of the education of children and young people. And, obviously, encourage to continue to sound the samarreta, to follow everyone in the same direction, above all to follow, to follow, to follow and to persist. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.78.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Anna Tarrés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.79.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, say in advance that this parliamentary group will vote in favour of the validation of this decree that gives support to the local world, that gives support to the foreign world and that gives support to the world of leure. We set out the principle of this legislature, during this legislature, the challenge of facing a new law of sport and physical activity so as to adapt it to the present time and give assurance of a new, more evolved legal and standard framework. The objective was to address the nine social and sports needs and demands related to physical activity as a tool of health and well-being, in order to give recourse to the different agents of the Catalan sports system. Unfortunately, it has not been possible, the Covid-19 appears in the March of Enchantment and paralyzes all activity and generation of services and wealth, and attracts the maximum attention of the Government to reactivate the country socially and economically before the different onades produced for the pandemic. The field of sport and physical activity is not alienated. The reports of the General Secretary of Sport, UFEC and Indescat are clear and destructive. It is for this reason that since the Department of the Presidency there has been an enormous effort to put into value the need to provide the citizenship of a tool such as sport and physical activity to cope in a healthy way, both physically and emotionally, with the crisis of the Covid-19. But unfortunately, sport and physical activity, as has been said here, have not yet been declared as essential benefits. We'll keep working to get it. As you know, since the first moment the Government, the Presidency's councillor and the General Secretary of Sport, in a coordinated manner with the Process, have promoted specific actions and plans to deal with the situation in the field of sport; first, to attend to the liquidity of entities, enterprises and self-governments; then, to reactivate the first wave with preventive protocols, and, finally, to the dam of activity in this second wave. The decree valid today intends to continue to respond to the need for help in order to address the consequences of the closure of this second case. We enter into the matter of the decree that we valid today, Decree Law 43/2020 of 17 November, which is structured into two chapters – I will not go into details, because it has already been explained very well here – an additional provision and a final provision. Chapter I talks about the extraordinary additional 2020 for local authorities, and divides them into five articles. Article 1 creates the fund with a 20_million endowment. Article 2 states that the beneficiaries of these funds are the joint ventures, the regional councils the General Council of the Aran, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and the decentralised municipal entities. Article 3 regulates participation. The 4 sets the distribution criteria. And the 5th regulates the requirements for the release of participations in the fund. Chapter II speaks of extraordinary emergency aids to cope with the suspension of the opening of facilities and sports equipment. The first article, which corresponds to Article 6, enables the Catalan Council of the Sport to convene, process and resolve the provision of a line of help of 25_million euros. The specific Article 7 that the beneficiary entities are the persons holding the management of sports facilities in Catalonia, both sports entities and companies in the sector. Deputy Abellan, I know it's hard, but maybe you haven't read the whole decree: there are outlaws of this line of help legal persons who participate in more than 50_per_cent per public capital and self-employed professionals. So they're not all companies. The additional provision modifies social measures in educational centres and in the field of education in the classroom and in school activities to deal with the Covid. And the final provision says that this decree comes into force on the same day as your publication to the DOGC. We therefore applaud the measure of setting aside 25 million for legal entities managing sports facilities, a measure which has been necessary to contribute to the expenditure incurred by the closure of the sector during the three weeks of November. As the Councillor said, 1,234 requests have been made and all the needs have been covered. It is important to appreciate the efforts of the Català de l'Esport Council in the rapid resolution of these grants. It was a necessary measure, and probably insufficient, but I need to see the photograph in its conjunction. We have to add here the Liquidated Sports loans, of 10_millions, promoted between the ICF and the Catalan Council of the Sport, where some sixty entities have been able to benefit. On the other hand, it was possible to increase the call for the impact of activities in the territory and in the sector, with the endowment of 2.5_million more than the exercise 2019; subsidies to all types of entities without a desire to work, would result in benefits more than four hundred. The Government's commitment has been maintained in order to maintain the slight increase in the presuppositional appropriations provided for before Covid-19 in order to mitigate the effects and costs of preventive actions. That is to say, for federations we are talking about EUR 9,5_million, for councils exportius, EUR 4,6_million, and for clubs eighty-four performances worth EUR 700,000. The Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia intended to be at all times on the side of the sector and sports entities: meeting in Parliament, visits to public and private entities and coordination with our Congress and Senate partners in Madrid to propose measures that lower fiscal pressure and the liquidity of sports entities, businesses and sports citizens. We are talking, therefore, about the reduction of VAT, the exemption of VAT by building new equipment, tax incentives deductible in quotas to gymnasiums, clubs and sports competitions, the contribution of the funds from the quineals to the autonomous federations, the increase of the expense relief in the municipal debt. Measures, all of them, that have remained at the municipal level with the motions presented with the support of the ACM and the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia. Finally, it exhausts the immediate resources and debt capacity of the Government of Catalonia, and before the slow reaction of the Government of the State to transfer resources from the European funds for economic and social recovery, and before the lack of resources to deal with the crisis, from the General Secretary of Sport and Physical Activity is working without rest and quickly to request requests in the framework of the Korean Commission. Five projects related to sports competitions, summer activities, sports equipment, club digitalization and Winter Olympic Games, the European Union's Next Generation project for the digital and energy transition of the company or other projects related to the digital transition of federations, sports councils and businesses, energy transformation of sports equipment and decarbonization of the same equipment, digital transformation of technology centres and the institutional digital sports platform. We must be prepared, therefore, to face a year 2021 difficult and full of uncertainties, but also full of hope. We can control the effects of this crisis among all, with cows, with preventive action protocols, with changes in social behaviour for what it does to mobility and, above all, with more debt and more public resources. Catalonia is doing its dues. Now touch move file to the Spanish State. Mr. Ciutadans, all that you ask is that we can only achieve it with an independent country. I would not want to finish my last intervention of this legislature in this faristol without expressing my thanks for the work done with the different political forces of this Parliament. Also thank Parliament's staff for all their support. But especially to thank the support of the staff of my parliamentary group, in Jordi and the Eva, without forgetting the rest of the company advisors, to always be there. And to all my teammates, thank you for your expertise, thank you for growing together during this legislature, for your work, for your commitment to building a more free, fairer, more equal and more independent country. The world of sport forged me as a person and as a professional and taught me the true values of life. Today I will highlight three: the value of altruism and solidarity, that is, the helpless at the moment you need it the most; the value of hedonism– enjoying the work you do, feeling happy for what motivates you the most–, and the desire to overcome– to grow before difficulties and adversities. After that she is only better from the consciousness of her own abilities, and I understand that there is no success without patience, but above all that she is not up there if there is no perseverance. Now, more than ever, a country, a team. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.80.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Decrees No 42/2020 of 10 November on urgent measures to support entities in the third social sector and No 47/2020 of 24 November on extraordinary economic measures in the youth installations sector, measures in the cooperative sector and amendments to Decree No 39/2020 of 3 November on extraordinary social measures to deal with the consequences of Covid-19 and Decree No 42/2020 of 10 November on urgent measures to support entities in the third social sector]] [[203-00067/12 and 203-00071/12]] Let us turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 42/2020 of 10 November of urgent measures to support entities in the third social sector. I am sure that together with this point, which corresponds to number 10, we will debate point 11; that is to say, 10 and 11 of the order of the day will be taken together. 11 corresponds to Decree-Law 47/2020 of 24 November of extraordinary economic measures in the youth installations sector, measures in the cooperatives sector and amendments to Decree-Law 39/2020 of 3 November of extraordinary social measures to deal with the consequences of Covid-19 and Decree-Law 42/2020 of 10 November of urgent measures to support entities in the third social sector. In the first place, and to expose the reasons for which these decrees have been promulgated, has the word of the councillor, Mr. Chakir the Homrani. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.81.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Thank you, President. I think that I can atone for the importance of urgent measures decrees – they know perfectly well that they are being used to give an agile response to an exceptional situation – and we can enter directly into the content, which I think is what all Members would like. In this validation or proposal for the validation of two decrees approved by the Government, we propose to them the validation of the following objectives: firstly, urgent measures to support the entities of the third social sector; secondly, measures for the cooperative world; thirdly, extraordinary measures and of economic support to the youth installation sector; fourthly, specific modifications to the aid of the field of culture, and, fifthly and later, minor modifications in the field of accommodation and adoption. That's what we put in these two decrees. We're going to go in point by point for the most thematic area, which I think is more straight, and from here, to its disposition. I begin by explaining the support measures to third-sector entities. I think everyone needs to share with me that the third social sector has been key at the time of responding to the needy Sorghums from the pandemic. It is already a key sector around the Catalan system of social services. We were also able to debate it in the strategic Social Service Platform, which, for the first time, gives it the paper it has in the field of the Catalan social service system. And with this help, what we want is to finish all the steps we've taken around supporting such a complex situation. For one thing, we have taken steps around everything that is linked to concertation, concertation of places, whether in the area of people with disabilities, in the area of childhood, adolescence and youth, in the area of great people. And in this decree what we want is to finish the circle of this support, because they have also had an extraordinary expense, because they have been on the first front at the time of the answer, to those entities of the third sector small, many communities, very backward to the territory, which are basic, that, as you know, they do not have a function so much around the concertation of places, around all that is the portfolio of social services, but their daily functioning was very linked to the policy of subsidies, whether from the Generality or from the locals where they are found, because they are so much behind the territory. And, in this sense, it was a flank that we needed to finish donating to it, a support that we would always want to be bigger, and that is indisputable, but to be able to donate this element. And they've been giving a direct response to a lot of people in the Covid situation. You also plan to give a support, in the decree that is 47/2020..., to give a specific support to the federations of the third sector of second level, which have made a task of monitoring, supporting, coordinating, advising their top level entities. What's he up to? What is the universe we want to answer to? Four hundred entities globally, already federations or top-level entities. The payment is all organized so that it is at the end or at the beginning of the year you see – at the end of this year or at the beginning of the year you see. These aids consist of a fixed single-paying import: EUR 5 000 for foundations, associations and social initiative cooperatives which aim at the care and defence of social rights of vulnerable and excluded communities, and EUR 20 000 for federations and associations which are constituted by foundations, associations and social initiative cooperatives with the same purpose, i.e., in the defence of social rights and work with vulnerable and excluded communities, which are the second level. It is an extraordinary, urgent measure that has a value that I think everyone needs to share, around the work done by these entities and a work done in a context that has supposed them to adapt to this context, and this always means summarising efforts at all their work. Moreover, in the subsequent decree, what we are doing is to amend 42 to eliminate the forecast of the delay of the aid that is foreseen in chronological order, because, even in this case or in the case of Culture – and we have discussed it with some Members and Members – the universe is very taxed, we prefer not to run any risk in this sense and to be able to go to this process. And even though this made it happen one or two weeks ago, I think it's worth making this decision. The second point, that of measures in the world of cooperatives. What do we do? So, standard changes that help us support all cooperatives and the world of cooperativeism in this area. An economic sector that – I think it is not necessary to repeat – must be filled in that it is not only the legal form of the cooperative, but that it is the values, in the background, the social values that accompany it and that in the exercise of the exclusive competence in the field of cooperatives that the Government of the Generality has and that has the department that I am close to coordinating, that we seek, always working with the sector – we have been working with the Confederation of Cooperatives, which groups all the cooperativeism in our country – it is possible to give some mechanisms of a certain flexibility around the situation that we are currently living. Thus, this decree provides for measures that enable Catalan cooperative societies to take with the urgency and speed required, in this exceptional situation, those decisions which may be essential for the sustainability of the cooperative society and which give continuity to the productive activity of this society. In this sense, the minimum time limit for the convening of the general meeting, in relation to the scheduled date of the meeting, is flexible, so that the board of directors is the governing body of the company, which, acting with due diligence and leiability required by law, has the power to decide which is the necessary time limit to enable members to hold the meeting and to compete at the session of the assembly. The mechanisms to compliment the right of information on the votes provided for in Article 48.2 of the Law on Cooperatives are also flexible. The period legally provided for the approval of the annual accounts for cooperatives is also extended with exceptional character. Here it is important that they understand that this enlargement, if we do not do so, could be given a situation in which they cannot access measures of encouragement and support that we develop for co-operativeism, subsidies and contracts or concerts. It is a package of measures, like all the measures worked in this area, very much worked with the sector, very much agreed with the sector, and which must allow us this flexibility around an exceptional situation. The third point is the extraordinary economic measures in the youth facilities sector. I don't think I need to be too much, so we're conscious. I mean, all decision making has positive elements and elements that are not positive. When we take the decisions of certain limitations to protect public health and the health of our fellow citizens, this has had an impact on economic sectors, and one of the economic sectors that has had an impact on health restrictions is the youth facilities sector, which has had to adapt, which in many cases has not been able to function at the cent_per_cent, nor to approach the cent_per_cent, and, in this sense, between the importance of this sector between education in the light and the role it has, what we wanted to do is to be able to take an extraordinary measure of economic character in order to give support to the sector. Here, too, there have been cancellations of activities, they have seen that their demand is reduced, they have had to adapt constantly to the measures of prevention and health protection, like many other sectors..., and, to be able to give them this support. That, too, connected to an element. As you know, in the previous plenary, Councillor Bargalló led to the validation of Decree Ilei 41/2020, which was the whole package linked to extracurricular activities, to the world of lleure, to initiations. We worked on it together, but we worked on two different decrees: one more education, because the volume is different, the logic of activities is different, and one more linked to Treball, Afers Socials and Families, especially from the point of view of the competitions in the youth field, because the volume and the typology is very different. It's not as big as Education, but it's much more intense. And in this sense we have coordinated the two departments for, each, covering all the areas that surround them. What are we planting? A new help to maintain the viability of youth installations, which takes into account a series of aspects: the number of places of each installation, the number of installations held by the owner or manager of the entity or of the beneficiary undertaking. And, in this sense, what we are planting is an aid that hopes to impact on 520 youth installations, between hostels, colony houses, school barns and youth camps, all of which are registered from the Youth Installation Registry of the Directorate-General for Youth, with a total allocation for the aid of EUR 3.5_million, which is a fixed donation of EUR 5000 for each youth facility, plus EUR 25000 for each place– is to say, recorded from the youth facility, with a maximum of EUR 40000 per entity, company or self-employed person demanding that it be left behind. In fourth place, measures of social character in the field of culture. What have we done? And you know that because we've met before, too. It was a modification of the aid. And I know... and we talked about it, and I remember now that Congressman Moreno and Congressman Rodriguez said, "The universe. We don't have to expand... I can hear it, we had quite a clear who the universe was, but we preferred to make sure we did; for if there was a surprise afterwards, to be able to ensure that it was a process that had some entrances and that did not year, then, to the uncompetitive competition. From here, what have we done, too? So, some..., taking advantage of this time frame, together with the same sector, being able to make some modifications in which was the agreement to help them with the same sector, which was destined for these aids. There have been some changes – if you remember what was presented and what was presented... –, and it has also been worked together for the Department of Culture, the Department of Work and Social Affairs, and for the representative entities of the sector. What we have tried to do is to achieve the balance between the fact that the services arrive as quickly as possible and that they are brought into line in the fairest way. We have been able to pull forward, we have made extraordinary aids for professional and technical people in the performing arts, visual arts, music, audiovisual and other cultural activities. The forecast of the delay was eliminated according to the chronological order, and it was possible to develop..., and I think that in the last meeting the secretary general of the department explained to them, even explained to them how all the help went, etc. And on the fifth point, the modification in mating and adoption. It is a very technical modification to clarify the concepts that are embedded in the imports of services in mating and adoption, which we have been working towards giving response to these needs in the Covid area. As you know, we've always wanted to have a very specific look around. It is an environment that does not have an affect of very many people, but that has an affect with a very important quality value. In the end, when a child, by reason of the health situation, his family – and he has no extended family – has no elements, being able to give a quick and quality response is a key element. We also change the final provision according to the same decree unless we can set up new conditions to improve the provision of services in cases where contracts and agreements are to be provided. Basically, as you see, and as... I wanted to go fast because I think we've had preparations and I don't think we need to do the whole thing. What we do is we have two decrees in law, with a diversity of themes – it also forms part of the department that we are close to coordinating – from the cooperative world to the third sector, to adoptions and adoptions, to youth facilities, in the field of social support to the cultural sphere, which is the competence of Culture but we work together. And to give the most rapid response, at these times of urgency, quickly and in a situation as complex as we live, to the citizens, to the fabric of production, to the entities, and to enable us, in such a complex situation as we live, to be able to give that element that allows us to continue to pull forward, that allows us not to have entities that have to suffer in a very extraordinary way a very difficult economic situation, that the youth facilities sector can pull forward, that co-operativeism can pull forward..., because for us it is not an alternative, it is a reality. We are aware that there are 2_million_i_mig people linked to the cooperative world in this country, and we are a country of 7_million_i_mig people. And from here on out, I hope you'll validate these two decrees, and at your disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.82.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is now the return of parliamentary groups, and in the first term has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.83.0	President... Counsellor, deputies, deputies, well, today we will talk about, in principle, two decrees, 42 and 47, even though we will also make references to 39. I'm saying this because this chain of decrees is going to prove how things are done to the Generality. It could be said that, as they are of extreme urgency, as the Councillor, his writing, has said, the measures that incorporate them are the result of the need to go as quickly as possible to give a solution to the urgent problems that the situation demands. And it's true that the situation for the sector they're trying to help is urgent, and it's true that these decrees are trying to deal with the difficult situation that these sectors are going through. For a band, the third sector, to which his attention was devoted, 42/20. And, on the other hand, that of the entities and enterprises of the youth facilities sector, to which it refers on 47/20. Both the third sector and the entities and enterprises in the youth facilities sector serve very concrete collections of our society. The third sector emerges as a solution to the needs of the most vulnerable people, to whom the public sector did not give sufficient attention at the time. Social organizations that replace – that do not complement, as it should be – many of the shortcomings of this project fail that it is the Autonomous Catalan community, and that fail not for external elements to the community, but for the progressive metastatic process of institutionalized corruption. Politics has become, at some point, not a public service, but a way of life. The previous crisis, that of 2008, breaks the model of negotiations of Catalanism and quickly is looking for a propitiatory victim: the foreign enemy in order to be able to blame everything that passed. Not again, we've been through this before. The nationalism where he saw better is against someone, and here they find, more, someone who was not defending, who took them as a sonat boxer. Both PP and PSOE just played to find the strings and here's to win a lot of raons for the bell. And so we are, with the difference that now who is being played against is not against old games dephoned and sounded, but against someone who is willing to create punches with a very high face. Maybe it seems to them that I've come out of the script, that what I'm saying has nothing to do with what we're dealing with here. Personally, I think so, since it's what I understand to manage the government. For many years now, different governments have thought that managing an autonomous community has become small, that it is very annoying to manage people's problems. They remind me of those businesses that when they start to see that you sell them, they're looking for what they're doing to prepare a corporate operation, because they think grandeur is all about it. You've had a good time. The larger the assumption, the less you see the daily cises – in vulgar terms, the 3_per_cent. Going back to the subject of your decrees. They'll forgive me for the trip, but I thought it was necessary to give the right context. The third sector is where it is because, or thanks to the fact that the public sector has not done its job. It is covering a space that should have been covered by public administrations, if not generally, even though there is always a place, as it should be, for private initiative. The fact is that both the third sector and the entities and enterprises in the youth facilities sector provide an important service to society. Even all the laws speak of strategic sectors to deal with, now and in the future, the consequences of the current pandemic situation for children and adolescents, especially the least vulnerable from the socio-economic point of view, or the key to the attention and defence of a wide variety of communities in vulnerable and excluded situations, which, because of this extraordinary situation, still need more support. But it is also true that the government's approach to the problems of these collections is clearly insufficient: they arrive late and are just one piece for the problems both of them. We all know when this economic health crisis began; we all know that it is a situation that no one in the whole world had ever faced before; we all know that no one has a magic solution to this crisis; we all know that the situation is highly volatile, that we are within what is called a ‘VUCA Scenario' – an English acronym of ‘volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity – is true. But that's not an excuse to do things as badly as they have done here – with full skills, let's remember – especially on the part of this council, where mistakes are made after mistakes, day after day. The triumphalist messages of the beginning of the summer, the management of the health and economic crisis, sending confused and contradictory messages, both here and there, is one of the main consequences of the current situation. Before they took place elements of Germany, and their management of the current crisis is not comparable. There, he managed it from the crisis, as it goes, it has no repercussions like here. The help that has been given to them, therefore, perfectly complete the abst of all its size. Not here, they pose small pieces to much more important problems. We are talking about help that is granted with counters: give some pendulums here today, tomorrow, and unnecessarily spread the suffering of many citizens. They're going to play with the idea that after the summer, there wouldn't be a second game, and already with full competitions, they're going to allow situations that aren't compatible with scientific recommendations. It was done, with full competitions, an unscathed hurried so that the greatest possible number of tourists came, which, in the end, did not end up coming. It is true – I have already said – that it was not easy to know at that moment what would end up happening. I won't do historical interpretations with you. But it's true that a good manager doesn't believe in improvisation; what it does is to plan different scenes, assign odds of occurrence and prepare protocols for actions according to the different possibilities that open up, lock in, above all, one that incorporates the worst possible scene to be prepared, even if it isn't in the hundred_per_cent, so that it can quickly give it an alternative solution. The reality is that we have found ourselves with an ambushed government, thinking of imperial dreams and rejecting its responsibility, sharing blame for wrong and right, starved and overcome by the crisis, offended by the internal crisis and without a clear leadership. We are here today, for its validation, to help sectors that were going through very badly, not because of their incompetence or to do badly their activity, but because of a surviving cause. If the State is not going to solve these problems, why is it? And don't forget that you are the State. But you have much more emphasis on your identity claims than on solving the real problems of Catalans. You're not the solution, you're part of the problem. They have aid in these sectors, as they have previously not taken aid to others equally affected, and the solutions continue to feel the same: pieces and pieces. Instead of presenting a multi-sectoral scotch plan, they have dedicated themselves to making a patchwork of related measures. These sectors and the others have asked for help, measures that can make the crisis more difficult. And you have been passing the time: who passes, years old, must be his motto. Worse still, they've been passing the time and getting used to the elections, suffering from the patience of the citizenry, so that they can take advantage of the help for their own electoral interest. Example of this is precisely how the aids were designed, regardless of the size of the service providers. The linear help, for everyone, according to their own words, wants to favor the smaller ones. And if that's the way the principle of neutrality of political measures is broken, which causes, in the background, the asymmetry in the application of aid. Even though, in the background, as much as it goes, the aid in the end is insufficient, both for small and for large companies or businesses. If it is to be spent, that it actually has some effects, that it is not money spent for nothing, that it is not to keep zombie businesses that at the end, therefore, also disappeared under normal conditions. There has to be an application of public funds, because in the end they are not money that is not from anyone, they are money that comes from the taxes of all Catalans, from all citizens. Therefore, its application must have suitable multipliers for the reversal it is seeking to produce. Do they really think that this is an economic, rational criterion, or did he just drive to get out to the press, to the network and to the usual propaganda equipment, to sell the film that is helping the citizenry, the workers and Catalan companies? To finish adopting it, and as a demonstration of how they manage, just look at a few articles in the 47 amend articles of the 42 and 39, fruit, we are sure, of the little professional approach that has been made to manage the problems of Catalans and that reaffirms the clear incompetence with which all this assumption has been carried from the beginning. Do they believe that aid of EUR 3 million can really be used to put up with the wisdom of these sectors or others, when the losses are calculated for hundreds of millions? Raindrops that are lost in the desert sorrow into which the Catalan economy is converted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.84.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.85.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable councillor, today we are substantiating these two decrees, 42 and 47, jointly. Why? So, basically, Decree 47 includes amendments to Decree 42 – also of 39 – and these are two decrees that we are debating today. Let's continue in these tãonica of decrees that are presented to amend previous decrees that have been made public and that surely, therefore, have rejected some type of criticism, already parliamentary or of the conjunction of civil society, right? And they've had the government reflect. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites for Progress we are not against the fact that the Government rectifies – more worth a correction in time than a bad decree – but to have the habit of amending decrees in a minimum margin of time denotes a certain lack of initial global reflection that we would like to warn them of, and, more importantly, to let them know the important role of having a responsible opposition, that in situations such as we are living, with their abstention or with their stated vote, allows the approval of many of these decrees. For what it does to Decree 42, of urgent measures to support entities in the third social sector, the Decree proposes a new aid of two thousand euros if it is for associations, foundations or cooperatives, or twenty thousand in the case of federations of associations constituted by a minimum of two entities. In both cases, the entities must have as their goal the attention and defence of social rights of vulnerable and excluded communities. This is what was originally given in Decree 42, but Decree 47 modifies these imports downwards: five thousand euros for the first and twenty thousand euros for the second. I'll talk to you later. It is worth saying that this heading encompasses many social entities in Catalonia, and I have some doubts as to whether they all have this purpose, as required by the decree, in their statutes. Perhaps many of them do not explain it by statute, even though the work they generate goes directly to these collections. Therefore, we celebrate the willingness to arrive at an ample universe, but the statutory obligation could make – it could be – some of you stay out of this call. Another of the requirements is that the activity has been maintained continuously since March 14, 2020. And here we consider that many of them could have difficulties to justify it. It has been very difficult for some associations, which continuously in time work for the collectible at risk of social exclusion or vulnerable, to maintain their activity continuously when the whole country was confined. Certainly, some, because of the type of service they gave, were able to organize, modify their activity and bring it, at last, home. But others have had no more reason than to postpone their activity to later months, one time the state of alarm was lifted, and, precisely for all these months, those who could not develop their activity, because it was impossible, they stopped perceiving tickets, had to change the working conditions of their workers and workers, or, in short, had to adapt to the new reality. Therefore, the requirement that the activity should have been done in an uninterrupted manner may be seen as a stumbling block to social entities that have moved their activity at the time that they were able to recover the new normality and that, now, they are absolutely necessary in the struggle against the poor and social exclusion generated by the effects of Covid-19. For what you do to the quantity, you will spend 3,600,000_euros, at a rate of 5,000 or 20,000_euros. It made a quick division, we could be talking about, on the fertilizer, of some four hundred performances and, at the same time, the quantity destined for other sectors and the economic availability that it currently enjoys – that it currently enjoys – the Government of Catalonia, fruit of the 3,200_millions of euros passed to the Government of the State and of the 460_millions of euros of modification of the deficit limit, in our opinion, it would have been a little more splendid from the point of view of the total amount. In all ways, and thanks to the fact that you have found a more just system by modifying some of the procedures of non-competitive competition, as we suggested from other political formations and that you say it was the best at that time, we will see whether this amount up to cover the demand and whether it will warm up or not to extend the presuppositional game. A demand, in any case, that will go according to the publicity that is intended to give of this performance. And I'm basically focusing on advertising, because the system will work by sworn declaration, even after the department may or may not make the proofs that you consider necessary. In general terms, about this decree conveying them that we see correct, but that it lacks ambition if what it wants to do is a proposal to ensure a good functioning of the third social sector in the present and in the future, which has brought so much each, in the way that it has done, in this struggle against the Covid-19. For what it does to Decree 47/2020, extraordinary economic measures in the field of youth facilities and measures in the cooperative sector. I am no longer talking about the changes introduced in the previous decree, because I have already referred to it. The Decree establishes an emergency aid scheme for self-employed entities, businesses and workers, holders or managers of colony houses, youth hostels, colony houses consisting of school barns or classrooms and youth camps, consisting of a single contribution of EUR 5 000 and EUR 5 000 per place, with a maximum of EUR 40 000 per entity. The total amount devoted is EUR 3 million, very similar to that of Decree 42, but in this case we consider that, with a sector so varied and so punished for the protection measures of the Covid, it will not cease to be an aid to value, but it will not cease to be, perhaps, an insufficient aid. With regard to the Catalan cooperative societies, we have little to say. The amendments envisaged by the decree consider that they are in line with the need to make flexible what is required by the operation of these cooperatives in the current situation, both for what it does to its governing bodies and to the sociated persons of these cooperatives. One of the modifications that also includes this decree refers to the economic performance for professional and technical people of the world of culture. Modify the non-competitive competition criteria that resulted in the withdrawal of this service before the initiation of the application, in the same decree that established this system for self-employed workers – all a breach of decree, however. Flexible conditions to access there. This has caused, if I have not erred, that you have rejected 4,376 requests and that there have been attestations, according to your own information, all that have arrived and with less care than you had intended for it. Well, that's the end of it, but it serves as a warning of the derailment generated with this performance, which involves bringing down decrees that seek to help very important and very misguided sectors, such as the culture sector, without consulting them beforehand. This government has missed a dialog and has had enough press to search for the headline. From the point of view of modifications in adoption themes and accolliment, so to speak. They're technical modifications, and so we find them. And to end and in general terms, taking into account the fact that we have only a few hours of the legislature, we can say that there has been a certain major disorder in the aid and benefits that this Government has intended to allocate to the congregation affected by the pandemic. Disappeared in typologies, poor fair mechanisms, little dialogue with the sectors involved, delay in measurements and little broad manicure to try to get to as better people as possible. And, therefore, that's what we're considering. We're already moving them. But, in addition to the benefits and for what it does to the social sector, the new-service inn should not neglect the pending payments to the sectors that are already functioning. I'm worried – I tell you, counselor – about the information that comes to me, for example, from Reus's Baix Camp Workshop. It is a special work centre, which also has a residence and a day centre for people with intellectual disabilities, which the Government of Catalonia has not yet paid €300,000 in grants and which calls for these payments are due at the end of the year and, therefore, will charge, if all goes well, the month of fever, even though these entities have paid the names and expenses already girls during the year 2020. And from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, we ask you, Mr. Counsellor, to be interested in the extremely complicated situation of this entity and many others in Catalonia. We believe that they have been unable to do so since this Parliament we have asked them many times: the need to schedule with the sector and in an agreed manner the payments that, yes or yes, we know are to be made in the current year; a minimum planning that allows entities to make a proper management of their economic resources. And since I'm asking you to do this in relation to Reus, I also ask you to put the magnifying glass in the management of the Roger residence of Lluria, where are multiple complaints about the attention paid by the residents and where they have opened themselves to different workers and workers. This issue is not the object of this decree, but as it is the last time that I have the opportunity, in any case, to refer to myself from this Faristol, I wanted, in any case, not to leave me alone and then you do the proper management. For what it does to the decrees, my parliamentary group will abstain. And for what it does to all of you, since this will be my last intervention in this legislature, so, wish them all and all of good year 2021, that it will be a year of change, a good year, a good Nadal. We'll find you missing... Mrs Ribas, we'll find you missing, this Parliament. Thank you for all the moments we've been able to share. And that you have a happy new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.86.0	Thank you, Congressman. I now return to Mrs Marta Ribas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.87.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, we debate these two decrees which lead to the validation of Parliament, 42 and 47. 42, which establishes an extraordinary and timely single payment aid for third-sector entities, also for second-level entities dedicated to the care and defence of social rights and vulnerable and at risk of exclusion that has an impact on their functioning or on the need for measures imposed on Covid-19. It is actually a shady aid for entities in this sector that could not be covered by other types of compensation for other lives. No problem in this sense, we understand the circumstances. The law decree was approved, however, just in the middle of the nyap of the application of the help of the autonomes and required subsequent modification via the other law that we are debating in this same debate, Decree Law 47, to precisely change the system of ordinaryity of the re-help the first ones that request, by order of request, to change to another system, therefore, that it is not of competition between the same, as it was passing with this type of system of the later decrees. At the same time, in Decree 47, the quantities have also changed, and they have reduced from two thousand to five thousand euros the punctual aid to first-order entities, not second-order ones. In this respect, we asked the Government why; it seems that for, therefore, to harmonize a little more with other types of aid that have been given in other sectors. It doesn't seem too bad to us that there was a willingness to try to harmonize; what we don't understand is how it didn't come about, right? Ever since the beginning, in Decree 42, which was the right amount to pay to an entity of this type that can take this help. And we fear, therefore, also for elements we have seen, and now they have also come to manifest themselves on behalf of the socialist spokesman, that a few ended up finding specific cases that meet with the conditions that they have placed for this help, we will again have some other decree amending this decree, because they will have remained entities, that they would have to have access to these aids, outside their access. I'm going to Decree 47, which, beyond this modification of 42, is a pot of other themes, too. It includes the extraordinary help of single-paying emergence for entities, businesses, self-employed persons or youth facility managers – we are talking basically about the sector where colonies, lodges, youth camps... In this case, according to the Government, the help is adjusted to give answer to a name, which in this case is closed and limited, of possible collectors, and therefore we understand that the calculation has been made correctly. Let's hope this one doesn't have to be modified by subsequent decrees. On the other hand, there are some of the extraordinary measures that have been taken by means of Decree Law 19/2020, on organizational aspects of cooperatives; we understand that it is necessary and that, obviously, it could not be foreseen at that time, right? , which extended the situation of emergence of the Covid and exceptionality also for the ordinary functioning of cooperatives. But they also go back, in this decree, to modify the aid to the culture sector – and here I will be entertained a little more –; help them to be taken back to Decree 39 of 3 November, which actually already reviewed or revived the aid to the culture that had been made in another decree law in the summer. Therefore, some help created in the summer, reviewed in a law decree, the 39th, and now reviewed again. And they do it wrong again: they have corrected that it is not a system that competes between the equals, right? As we have said, we respect the 42nd. Yeah, they corrected that. They've corrected the universe of who we're talking about, haven't they? , of possible perceptors. But they repeat bureaucratic mistakes that leave people out. In fact, data from how many professionals and technicians in the cultural sector have already accessed these aids show that there must be people in the sector who have not accessed them. Because if we don't get it wrong, there's money left. The one that passed to the estuary, the one that we told them that would happen again with Decree 39 and now they have fallen back into the same mistake. Traves, what kind? I can believe I worked at least one day this year in this sector. Many of the most precarious of this cultural sector work in spring season, summer, late. Covid arrived at us in March, and in many cases they did not or did not begin their season of small labor contracts they have for spring, summer or late. Therefore, they have not managed to hold a contract in this 2020, which is one of the conditions they have to, I understand, prove that they are people working in this sector. They could have done it in another way – and we already told them about Decree 39 – using the way that has been done in state aid, which was to prove it from contracts in this sector of the previous year. They have not done so and we believe that this has left people out of taking advantage of this help; people in the sector who have not had any contracts from those they should have had from this year. Another lock. One of the conditions for accessing it is to believe that it was affected by the cancellation of activities suspected to Covid. All right, all right, that's normal. The lock, however, does not appear in the text, but in practice. To accredit it is claimed a written cancellation of contract. And that in many cases does not exist, because there has been a call, a verbal cancellation or a whatsapp. And that's not acceptable to prove that he was affected by a cancellation of a contract that might have been a verbal compromise. After the tindries, isn't it? , once the performance, the service, the work– works like this, this cultural precarious world–, you would already have the contract, the invoice. They are not accepting cancellations via whatsapp, and therefore these people can not be demonstrating, therefore, that they have been affected by cancellations for Covid, and therefore they should be benefited from this help. Well, given the concrete themes of these two decrees, we have to reiterate that something fails when in general no help is being provided by this government to enclose it at the first. We still have the feeling that the government is not doing everything that it can, and above all, what it does is not doing well; it feels that they believe that they help without order or concert, without having calculated exactly what amount of help they have to be, how many perceptors there can be in that sector..., with a general map, a little bit, right? which you need to be helping with and with what intensity; feeling of unevenness and improvisation that is already common in these changes, in this new mode of law decree, which is decreed law of correction of another law decree, and, above all, feeling that they are still without planning and with no real dialogue with the sectors. We understand that the situation has been overflowing, that it has been very unexpected, managing many uncertainties, but it is that there are already new months – new months –, and it is hard to hear that we are still with this constant feeling of improvisation. All folded – planning and dialog – is more necessary than ever at a time like the present. We have told you on multiple occasions, from one band to the situation of the Covid, from the other, because you are a functioning government, and, thirdly, because there are elections at the gates, and, therefore, more social concert than ever, more social than ever, and political dialogue also, with parliamentary groups, to value perhaps how to do this planning. As usual, we, together with the parliamentary group, will abstain in these decrees in order not to block useful aid for people, collectivities, concrete sectors, beyond what we think is not enough for everyone or with sufficient intensity. But we are not rid of criticism of the lack of planning on matters as sensitive as the present for sectors as affected as today they see as benefiting from these two decrees that the government brings to validation. It's not my last intervention in this Parliament, but like the socialist spokesman, is it? As Raúl made reference to it, and with the Councillor I will certainly not agree again, I did want to thank the joint work that has been done with all the people of Afers Socials in this legislature, and to thank the Councillor that, as hard as we have had many of the debates – before as Members, when we coincided in the previous legislature, and at this time as Councillor and I as you carried on these issues – always, at one time or another, we managed to re-dialogue and speak. And, come on, I think it has to be nice, that in the end we always end up feeling like people, just missing, and we have to separate the political criticisms from the personal side. Desiring them to all the better, and especially to those who continue in Parliament or who continue from the government, because these issues, more than ever, will be essential for the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.88.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word now the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.89.0	Good afternoon, everyone. For us the problem will never be in the fact that it is possible to draft decrees through other decrees, whenever this term means better. And, in this sense, we want to value, in the first place, Decree 42/2020. And beginning, moreover, with the first of the contents of Decree 42, which refers to associations, foundations, cooperatives and which links attention and defence to vulnerable communities, and therefore to us creates a clear uncertainty, and we will try to explain why. Certainly, it states that it must refer to the statutes, but that it must refer to the statutes, we must not come to the conclusion that the statutes must have a full and accurate definition of this, but of the purpose, and therefore, we are moving again in an area that may be that of arbitrariness, for which it interprets what this article refers to. We will not refer, for what it does to Decree 42, another time to non-competitive competition, because we have already referred many times to the last plenary in relation to what we have thought since this parliamentary group, and we will simply brush up on what is to be done, even though it is not through Decree 42, but Decree 47, of the amendment of the 42, with reference to the exception of Decree 39. It could have gotten better. It could have been done in some other way, too, because you're still a lot clearer. We think it's still creating a point of uncertainty. And to go to Decree 47 we want to refer, in the first place, to which are youth facilities, which is the first question that is regulated. We at the technical meeting were actually asking what youth facilities were referring to. Certainly, perhaps it was a wrong question, because there is an express remission to the decree. And even within the express remission regulations, then there's a list where we can go to see who the entities are. But it generates another neguite for us in relation to a phase in approval in which it is agreed, first of all, that it must be understood that it is the first ones that arrive, but then it also refers to the acceptable ones and as if it could be valued. And, therefore, it has created a new uncertainty about what this can or cannot mean. And, therefore, if we have to make a new decree to improve this decree, it won't be a problem for us. It's a problem, always, that there's uncertainty. Where there are uncertainties is what is regulated in relation to cooperatives. There is one aspect that we have criticized – I would remind myself that until two times before this moment – on the convening of the general assemblies of cooperatives, it is possible that, in a causal way – there is a cause and it is clear – so there may be, or may not be, a maximum and minimum limit. For us, this can even generate a situation of defencelessness for the member and the co-operatives' sounds, as long as this evening they can get a communication that will call them tomorrow morning to the co-operative's assembly. And, therefore, a point of uncertainty. And the last question, which makes reference – to explain it in a very global way – to the sector of culture and to the aid that is regulated, also newly modified. Welcome is what changes that go better, but there is a reference that changes with regard to form, also a reduction now to EUR 30 thousand, but there is another element, that we have insisted very much that it was, in any case, an indirect discrimination, that was the fact of fixing a day scheduled for the year 2020. What can be an objective and neutral measure generates a clear effect for those workers who are temporary or intermittent and who this year cannot begin to work because they took the Covid in a classic process, which is spring-Santa Week until late- All Saints. So he won't have a single year... I'm sorry, he'll be back on the year 2020. And, therefore, you will not be able to accept the measures. And that's what in classic terms of labor law and comparison – and even of the administered law – between fixed times is considered indirect discrimination. And, therefore, let's call on the councilman to make a new decree. He wants to take over this councillor's deputy, too. We ask you to change this, because what I would not like is to find me in the spring, in my co-operative, challenging a call from the assembly that brings me here; in my co-operative, challenging a help in which we may not consider that we are doing an exercise of attention and defense of the most vulnerable, and also challenging, as many other times as I represent the workers, so I may be an intermittee in the cultural sector. Yes, Counselor, we will find ourselves as we have known each other, that it was not in this Parliament, that it was you as representing a political group and this one speaking to him as an advisor and advocate for a collection of workers and workers. Welcome to this new find in some other realities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.90.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.91.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we are ahead of two decrees that briefly regulate aid to third sector entities and other youth facilities. I will make five considerations, if time gives me – five considerations. A first: we're already wearing pandemic new months, huh? – new months – and there are many decrees that we have validated and there are many aids that are called upon. Let us continue to see an absolute disproportion between the aids of the different departments. I do not see that there is a certain homogeneity or a correlation or criteria for establishing the imports of aid which are given to different sectors. And I think it would be important. It cannot depend only on the ability of the department to call for help, but there must be a global vision of government to decide what is the ratio and what are the criteria for holding that help. And that's what I kept with these calls that bring us here today. Second element: constant modifications. She made me take a certain death when I was giving classes to the university and I had to pass on the algorithms of computer programs. Seeing the government's decrees is something almost more complex than making an algorithm of an application, of a computer program, isn't it? We have Decree 42, which amends Decree 39, and then we have the 47 which amends Decree 42, but it re-amends Decree 39, and it also amends Decree 19. The truth is, in the end, all folded up is a little complex. I'm not going back to you, because in the end this is happening absolutely with all the government's decrees. That's what they're okay with, huh? I mean, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's to be done, what's Third element: modification of expectations. We have already seen one thing with the modification of a decree that we have not seen so far and that concerns us, because you in the first decree, in 42, to the entities of the third sector, to some entities say to them: « Deu_mil_euros of subsidy. And to which they rectify they say: « Deu_mil no, five_mil. Listen to me, they have generated certain expectations that will then return to half. Therefore, surely, if they are uncertain with the second, it means that the first should not be sufficiently meditated upon when they approved the decree. Fourth: Disproportion of aids between themselves, between themselves. For example, youth installations including facilities of different types – said the deputy of the Socialist Group – camps, colony houses, youth hostels and school barns. It's not the same camp as a school farm. It does not involve the same expenses or the same investments a camp as a school farm, nor surely the same workload or the same number of workers. In change, the aids are exactly the same for some as for others. That is, with limitation, with a limitation for NIF, by entity, by company. "No, we want to benefit the little ones over the big ones. But perhaps the big ones, the impact of the big ones on the work places is much more important than the small ones. What do we give them? "No, therefore escorting, taking people, or Mirin, another solution: fragmenting the company into smaller companies and so they will be able to overcome the limit. You don't seem to be thinking enough. And the fifth consideration: bad planning. And I did it, in relation to the help for the professionals of the culture..., I did it very quickly four numbers, and I said to them, "I'm listening, if that's addressed to five thousand or fewer people, I don't think it's up to date or that they're making changes to the decree. Imagine, I told them less than five thousand, huh? They have amended Decree 39– first amendment–, they have re-amended Decree 39– second amendment–, they have amended the system, they have extended the credit for these aids, and at the end they have donated 4,376 aids, for which the first decree was sufficient, the assumption that there was in the first decree was sufficient, and it is certain that it has been saved, I don't know if two..., yes, two amendments to the decree, and help arrived three weeks before the people who needed it. That's the situation, Counselor, they don't even know when to rectify. And, of course, this way we won't block the help, but we can't support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.92.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rut Ribas has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.93.0	Thank you, President. It's very late, and it's all gone. Honourable Councillor, Members and Members, well, we do not like the fact of adopting new measures through decrees either, but we all know that this is the fastest, most efficient and most effective way to deal with various derivatives of the Covid-19, and these derivatives appear in many situations, so without notice. Pandemic effects that do not last and, unfortunately, until this virus is controlled or almost eradicated, it will be necessary to develop mechanisms to deal with these socio-economic consequences that will cause, badly, the Covid, and to give this rapid response to citizens and entities in this case. Coping with the pandemic and fighting the virus is also a good thing, so these economic consequences stem from the impact of the long-term measures to prevent and cut the spread of the disease. This second one has impacted again, but it also means that prevention and management from the zero minute has made us not to regret it, and that's also important, I think, to put it in value. Guaranteeing the size of transmission means..., means minimizing social contact, and, therefore, means having to demand that certain equipments are tanked or that social interaction between people is reduced. And this is what has happened, unfortunately, with the entities of the third sector, among others, associations, foundations, federations, cooperatives, which act for the care and defense of social rights of very diverse collections, and mostly act for the rights and collections of the most vulnerable or disadvantaged people of our society. They're entities that work and go to put their grit down, and with that grit they're building a better society, fighting these inequalities, this exclusion and this vulnerability. But in order to avoid having a strong impact on this second issue, it has been necessary, therefore, to take new measures and prevent the spread of the virus, and entities in the third sector have been affected, since they are many of their direct service providers and to be in contact with the citizenry. Entities that, from this second wave, from the Covid, have had to pay much more attention to the collection they attend to. Therefore, the fact of applying these restrictions to the prevention of the spread of the disease has already implied this impact, this increase in expenditure, which has caused an alteration that they did not contemplate. That's why we give full support to this decree so that these associations, federations, third-sector entities can afford this specific aid provided by Decree 42, and thus offer this economic support to the social entities that they have as their goal and also as their objective the attention of the rights of the most vulnerable collectivities, and therefore fight social exclusion. It is also open to debate at this time, therefore, Decree 47/2020, a decree which seeks to deal with various areas amending some of the articles of other laws, as has already been done in previous interventions, and which is related to juvenile installations, Catalan cooperatives, and also to the cultural sphere and also in matters of adoption and adoption. Allow me in centres in the field of youth facilities, where the centres of colonies, youth hostels, school barns and camps are located, which are intended to provide accommodation to groups of children and young people involved in educational activities, which are intended to provide accommodation to families and to collect or to work and to interact with nature and children. In short, there are facilities that become learning spaces for children and young people and, therefore, allow this pleasure between nature and also between groups of equals. And I think here I need to recognize the fact that these installations that have done this is this emotional follow-up to all infants and young people, after these long months of confinement. Thus, the youth facilities sector also has a role to play in the socio-emotional development of children and young people. And, in fact, it is nothing more than a heritage of our country, so that we can guarantee the owners and managers their viability. Youth facilities, therefore, are one of the collections that have paid a higher price in this socio-economic crisis caused by the pandemic. In fact, since March of last year they've suffered a drastic down payment. Moreover, the beasts of the educational colonies had to be returned and also the activities that had to be cancelled during the week of Holy Week. That's why I think it's important to approve this decree, to ensure that they get this economic support. I think that all of us, during these last few months, have been well aware of how to understand, how to recognize that education in reading is safe and necessary and, therefore, I think that it is necessary to recognize the entities of youth and education association that have demonstrated from the beginning of the pandemic this exemplary and collective consciousness. And, also, this was possible thanks to the heads and those, monitors and monitors, and also to the same children. Why does the reader not only cover the need for socialization among infants, but also promote this transmission of values, this critical awareness and this team work that we have always defended that is done by the reader, so as to contribute, right? , this better society and this awareness of rights and opportunities, and this empowerment towards social transformation. On the other hand, Decree 49 also includes, through the modification of certain articles of other laws, therefore, ensuring that you certainly help to reach the culture sector's collection that has been directly affected by the suspension of activities that caused the size of the infection. And, also, with this decree some changes are incorporated that allow for a continuation, an enlargement of certain measures, such as extending the power to the board of directors of the cooperatives so that they can convene ordinary assemblies or, as the honourable councillor also commented, on the adoption and adoption. Therefore, before this situation has been brought before us by the pandemic and the derivatives that do not concern themselves, we can only support these two decrees which the Government has submitted to us. We understand that before this pandemic situation we can only do pinya, collaborate and cooperate so that the most concrete sectors of society that have paid this high price of the crisis, so do not have the most direct consequences. And, finally, I would like to address all of you, since this will be my last intervention as the Member. Mr. President, if you'll allow me a few seconds to thank so many people with whom I've shared this journey and with whom I have so much later. Above all, give thanks to the young republic who trusted me and gave me this opportunity and also to be his see in this room. Also to the Republican Left, to have allowed me to have this opportunity to represent them in a space as prominent as the Bureau of Parliament. These years, I have tried to give the best of myself, and above all not to take away my principles. During these three years I have tried to stand up and work for the well-being of all the citizens of Catalonia and to improve the situation of the young people of the country, carrying out initiatives to try to end this high rate of youth tourism and proposals for decent housing for young people, or in the matter of health, offering and ending, together with all the companies of the Youth Commission, this monogram to attend to youth mental health. On universities, listening to student movements and approving the drop of the 30_per_cent of university priests this past course, or working for effective equality between men and women, making possible the first Pla d'egalité of the Parliament of Catalonia. Politics is talking, dialogue and negotiation, and this on various occasions unfortunately here we have not found it. We will only advance if all of us who occupy these spaces, these scons, make it clear that we are here serving citizens, their interests and their opportunities. We'll only move forward when we're clear that this is everybody's house. And only when we stop posing the threat and the prosecution. And finally, to say that it was a pride to be able to defend the rights of all the young people of the country. We are the future, but today we are also the present and can only guarantee a dignified life when we stop feeding this youthful precariousness. Before I had finished, I would like to have a special record for the company and the companies that badly repressed them in prison or exile. And also thank the good understanding that I have had with many of you so that I can reach agreement on motions and motions for resolutions. And more. Many thanks to everyone, and to see you again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.94.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr Francesc Ten. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.95.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, very good evening, or late afternoon. Mrs Ribas, a previa: to believe that the activities – or the performances, or the bowls – have been cancelled, on Decree 39, a simple electronic mail is enough, and in case the contract is required, knowing that the contracts, in the world of the contract in culture, are badly difficult. And so we said the councilwoman and I in some of the cultural charms that we've done in the past, that there's a lot of them, and that we celebrate. That said, I could repeat some of the things that have already been said about the specificity of these decrees, the amounts, the financing, the competitive competition, the imports, but I will not insist, and, pursuant to Decree 42/2020, I wanted to make a comment, a little reflection on the public service and the third sector, but also on the State and civil society. Catalonia has had, has and must continue to have a committed, proactive, determined, valued, powerful civil society, which we believe from Junts x Cat we need to protect, because it is also a fundamental part of our model of public service management, or of public services. Sometimes, in this faristol it has already been talked about and it has been better than I will do now, about the next, about the inhibition and the failure of the State to face responsibility before people. And before this lack, civil society, of which the third sector in its own right, has historically organized itself. And in many areas: in health care, in the professional sector, in work, in culture, in mecenatge, in education, in environmentalism. Catalonia has gone forward in this system of enhancing joint public-private initiatives, let's say, even though the formula is not the best denomination. Catalonia has made a difference with respect to the rest of the State, and that is why we want to protect this system. We want to protect this system, because the State has turned its face more often than not before the need of people. And it doesn't seem, sadly, that you changed, that, during the pandemic. The State has often turned its face before the needs of people in Catalonia, too, and civil society has had to replace it. The State, in fact, has turned its face in Catalonia many times. No project, no political project except for repression. The State of Catalonia is the story of a failure. Now, however, even in a caricatured way, the image of the State is Renfe, it's mail, it's history, it's the army, and it's the negative hit of all this the monarchy and the keys of the State. A parenthesis, please. The year you see, thanks to the public accounts that the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol and the Socialist Party of Catalonia and Catalonia In Comú Pode - União We may have approved the Congress of the Deputies, the Ministry of Defence, despite the social, health and economic urgency that we live in, the Ministry of Defence will have 400_million more, which is a 5_per_cent; that is also a 5_per_cent increase in the budget of the Royal House, and that the Defence is going to almost 10,500_million, of which 25 are from the European Union Recovery Plan for the Coronavirus. It's amazing, but it seems like it is. Ladies and gentlemen, the public authorities must fulfil their obligations and commitments to citizens. The public authorities must pursue the highest degree of satisfaction and benefit with the highest quality, and they can do so directly, as they can defend some anachronically, or with the collaboration of organised citizenship, as the Government of the Generality does and as we defended it Jointly for Catalonia. And these decrees, especially 42/2020, respond to this, to establish urgent support measures for third-sector entities. Resolvatory measures in the best possible way, which is now establishing extraordinary and timely economic aid; single payment aid, with the aim of promoting the maintenance, in a time of pandemic, of the activities of third-sector entities dedicated to the care and defence of social rights of vulnerable and excluded groups, since they have been clearly affected in the functioning of their services for the care of persons and voluntary activities, as a result, we repeat, of the Covid-19. They are aid for foundations, associations, federations and social initiative cooperatives that aim precisely at this, the attention and defence of the social rights of vulnerable and excluded communities. The Table of the Third Sector, in its presentation to the Commission of Study for Social and Economic Reconstruction and Reactivation – which I hope today the conclusions have been approved – says that, in the face of the complex situation that society and the country has and will have to face in the coming years, as from Parliament and the Government of the Generality is redoubled efforts to give response to this challenge. And these decrees respond exactly to that. In a modest way, but effective they respond to social emergence. And, therefore, also not to fail to advance towards a more inclusive society, implementing measures that can help reduce social inequalities. Measures and State Visit for a government that wants to be State, with a Parliament that also wants to be State. In the paper, the Third Sector Table – in the paper by the ESRB Committee – explained that the bases must be laid for moving forward to a new model of country that sets out for a greater redistribution of wealth to ensure decent living conditions for everyone; that places people in the centre as subjects of right-wing concern in planning and management of welfare policies and cures; that it guarantees the right to housing and basic sub-administrations to guarantee the vital and self-independence minimums; and that it promotes work-related policies worthy of and avoiding job insecurity, and that it strives for the fonal rights of childhood and adolescence. And it can't only be done by the government alone, but it must be done from a collective public service management structure. Moving forward, he said, with a new model of country in which the experience and value of a strictly social mission that brings the entities of the third sector to the management of services to people, to the service of general interest, and with the will of public service, and in the words of the same Third Sector Table: "A mission and a willingness to compromise with the social integration of the most vulnerable sectors by economic or social reasons, or of health, or of age, or of others, with a great proximity to the community and the territory, and with the highest commitment to the quality of service to the users, who are the citizens. MPs and MPs, we're all vulnerable and we're all in the dark, and we can't be aliens to all this. Therefore, we consider it necessary to count on the third sector as an indispensable agent, a social agent to face reconstruction and post-pandemic social and economic recovery. And for that, ladies and gentlemen, in the right measure, it could not, if I may, be that these decrees were not validated. And by the end, Mr. President, I would just like to say that it is indignant that prisoners and exiles pass a Nadal quarter away from home. Together for Cat says: "Freedom! That they all have a lot of good parties. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-15-6802.96.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Let us begin voting on this plenary session. [[Report and conclusions of the Climate Emergencies Follow-up Commission (cont'd)]] [[260-00003/12]] We begin, first of all, by voting on the report and conclusions of the Climate Emergencies Follow-up Commission. And, according to the separate voting petitions, we vote, in the first place, the points that go from point 5..., sorry, we vote, in the first place, point 5 of paragraph 7.1.1. The vote begins. It has been approved by 94 votes in favour – corresponding to 73 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics –, 40 against, no abstention. We now vote on paragraph 7 of paragraph 7.1.1. The vote begins. It has been approved by 76 votes in favour – corresponding to 56 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 40 against and 18 abstentions – corresponding to 17 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics. We now vote on point 9 of the same aside, 7.1.1. The vote begins. It has been approved by 92 votes in favour– corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics–, 40 against, 2 abstentions– 1 face-to-face and 1 telematics. Let's now vote point 2.c in paragraph 7.1.3. The vote begins. It has been approved by 129 votes in favour – corresponding to 109 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against, 5 abstentions – 4 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics. Let's now vote on paragraph 3 of paragraph 7.1.3– point 3 of paragraph 7.1.3. The vote begins. It has been approved by 76 votes in favour – corresponding to 56 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 40 against and 18 abstentions – which are 17 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics. Let's now vote on point 4.b of the same aside 7.1.3. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour – corresponding to 73 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 36 against and 5 abstentions – which are 4 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics. We're voting now for the 5 letters and d point of the same aside. The vote begins. It has been approved by 76 votes in favour– corresponding to 56 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics–, 40 against, 18 abstentions– 17 delegates and face-to-face and one telematics. And we're voting now on the 5th point of the same aside. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour – which correspond to 73 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 36 against and 5 abstentions – which are 4 delegates and face-to-face and one telematics. We're voting now for the 5.j point. The vote begins. It has been approved by 129 votes in favour– corresponding to 109 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics–, against, 5 abstentions– 4 delegates and face-to-face, 1 telematics. Let's now vote on point 10 of the same aside, that is to say, of 7.1.3. The vote begins. It was approved by 112 votes in favour – corresponding to 92 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against, 22 abstentions – 21 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics. I repeat: 112 votes in favour, against, 22 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 10 of paragraph 7.1.4. The vote begins. It was approved by 93 votes in favour – corresponding to 73 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 9 against, 1 telematics abstention. We now vote on paragraphs 3 and 4 of paragraph 7.1.6. The vote begins. They have been approved by 97 votes in favour – corresponding to 77 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against and 37 abstentions – corresponding to 36 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematic vote. Let's now vote on paragraph 1.c of paragraph 7.1.7. The vote begins. It was rejected by 42 votes in favour – corresponding to 41 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics – 57 against, 35 abstentions – corresponding to 15 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. Let's now vote point 2, letters to, b and c, of the same apartment 7.1.7. The vote begins. It was approved by 116 votes in favour – corresponding to 96 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 17 against and 1 telematic abstention. Let's now vote points 6 and 7 in paragraph 7.2. The vote begins. They have been approved by 93 votes in favour – corresponding to 73 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 40 against and 1 telematic abstention. We now vote on points 8 and 13 in paragraph 7.2. The vote begins. They were approved by 129 votes in favour – corresponding to 109 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 4 against, 1 abstention from a telematic vote. Let's now vote on the 18th point of the same aside, that's 7.2. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 42 votes in favour – corresponding to 41 delegates and face-to-face, 1 telematics, 63 votes against and 29 abstentions – which are 9 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. Finally, we vote on the rest of the report's conclusions. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of the Safety of the Petrochemical Sector (continuation)]] [[260-00004/12]] Let us now vote on the report and conclusions of the Petrochemical Sector Security Study Commission. And, according to the separate voting petitions, we begin by voting first on point 3.22 in paragraph 7.2.2. The vote begins. It has been approved by 91 votes in favour – corresponding to 90 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics –, 34 against – which are 15 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – and 9 abstentions – 8 delegates and face-to-face, 1 telematics. We now vote on point 4.5 in paragraph 7.2.2. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 9 votes in favour– 8 of delegates and face-to-face, 1 of telematics–, 116 against– correspondents to 97 delegates and face-to-face, 19 of telematics– and 9 abstentions– 8 of delegates and face-to-face, 1 of telematics. Let's now vote on point 1.31 in paragraph 7.2.3. The vote begins. It has been approved by 55 votes in favour – corresponding to 54 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics –, 39 against – corresponding to 20 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – and 40 abstentions – 39 delegates and face-to-face, 1 telematics. Let's now vote on point 1.32 of the same section 7.2.3. The vote begins. It has been approved by 125 votes in favour – 105 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against, 9 abstentions – 8 delegates and face-to-face, 1 telematics. We now vote on point 1.34 of the same aside, 7.2.3. The vote begins. It was approved by 125 votes in favour – corresponding to 105 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics –, 4 against and 5 abstentions – corresponding to 4 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics. We now vote on point 3 in paragraph 7.2.4. The vote begins. It has been approved by 91 votes in favour – corresponding to 90 delegates and face-to-face, 1 telematics –, 4 against, 39 abstentions – which are 19 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics. Let's now vote on point 1.8 in paragraph 7.3.2. The vote begins. It has been approved by 125 votes in favour – corresponding to 105 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 4 against and 5 abstentions – corresponding to 4 delegates and face-to-face and 1 telematics. And now we vote on point 2.21 in paragraph 7.3.3. The vote begins. It has been approved by 125 votes in favour – corresponding to 105 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against, 9 abstentions – which are 8 delegates and face-to-face, 1 telematics. And now we vote on the rest of the report's conclusions. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes in favour – 109 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics – against four abstentions. [[Report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Social and Economic Reconstruction and Reactivation (continuation)]] [[260-00005/12]] We now vote on the report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Reconstruction and Economic Reactivation. The joint vote begins, because no separate vote has been requested. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes in favour – 109 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics – against and 4 abstentions. [[Decree-Law 43/2020 of 17 November, enabling the Català de l'Esport Council to set up extraordinary and emergency aid for the suspension of the opening to the public of installations and sports equipment in Catalonia, creates the extraordinary additional grant 2020 for local authorities, and amends Decree-Law 41/2020 of 10 November, on extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in reading and extra-curricular activities in the face of the health, economic and social crisis generated by Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[203-00070/12]] We now vote on the validation of Decree Law 43/2020. The vote begins. It has been validated by 65 votes in favour– corresponding to 44 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics–, against, 69 abstentions– 65 in favour, against and 69 abstentions. Do any groups want to deal with the bill? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Decree-Law 42/2020 of 10 November on urgent measures to support entities in the third social sector (continuation)]] [[203-00067/12]] So let us proceed to vote on point 10, which corresponds to the vote on the validation of Decree 42/2020 of 10 November of urgent measures to support the entities of the third social sector. The vote begins. It has been validated by 65 votes in favour – corresponding to 44 delegates and face-to-face – against 69 abstentions. Any group want to process this law decree like the law bill? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Decree-Law No 47/2020 of 24 November on extraordinary economic measures in the field of youth facilities, measures in the cooperative sector and amending Decree-Law No 39/2020 of 3 November on extraordinary social measures to deal with the consequences of Covid-19 and Decree-Law No 42/2020 of 10 November on urgent measures to support entities in the third social sector (continuation)]] [[203-00071/12]] So let's vote on the next point, which is the onze, which is Decree 47/2020. The vote begins. It has been validated by 65 votes in favour – corresponding to 44 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics – against 69 abstentions. Any group want to process this law decree like the law bill? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So there's no point in voting for today. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
