ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.1.0	Well, so-so, huh? Once this technical question is resolved, let's start the session. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated tomorrow morning, as a quarter of the order of the day of this plenary session. On the other hand, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, the deputy Eusebi Campdepadrós, with a motion of hospitalization, has delegated his vote to the deputy Albert Batet, president of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] In addition, I would like to inform you that, as a compliment to what is established by the Parliament of Catalonia's Movement 111/XII, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies for the gathering of migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, since the beginning of this year 2020, there have been seventy-seven deaths and disappearances in the Mediterranean. [[Decree-Law No 2/2020, of the 21st generation, on the financial needs of the public sector for budgetary reasons and amending the text recast of legislation in the field of water supply in Catalonia, adopted by Legislative Decree No 3/2003 of 4 November 2003]] [[203-00027/12]] The first item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 2/2020, of the 21st generation, of the public sector's financial needs for budgetary prorogation and amending the text recast of the legislation on the subject of water in Catalonia, approved for Legislative Decree 3/2003, of 4 November. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will first intervene to explain the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the vice president, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.2.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Councillors, councillors, congressmen, congressmen, very late everyone. I am speaking on behalf of the Government to present this decree which, therefore, in accordance with the urgency and necessity criteria, we are bringing to the chamber in order to deal with the Generality's financial needs as long as the budgetary extension lasts, during these first weeks of the year 2020, and which also modifies the text recast of the legislation in the field of water for urgent actions that need to be done and that require a standard amendment with the rank of law. On other occasions we have appeared in this chamber precisely to give account of decrees law like today; Vice-President Junqueras did so and I also did so in the later exercise with a proposal of decree law that facilitates it..., the Government of Catalonia is empowered to allow, while this budgetary extension lasts, to deal with the need for loan renewal, downstream renewal, and, therefore, to assume our commitments that we already have contracts in the field of the financial needs of the Generalitat Catalunya. On other occasions, when we appeared with a decree similar to this one, it was possible not to know if there were any presuppositions for this exercise. In fact, the adoption of assumptions for an exercise, in view of the intense political activity and life and the changes that have taken place, in so much depth, not only in the parliamentary sphere, but also in the conjunction of Catalan politics and society, so the fact of approving assumptions annually has not been usual, but unfortunately in the past few years we have had to carry decrees of prorogation with this. But in this case we have a decree that we need to finance with pro-presupposition that we have, therefore, conviction, because we have granted it..., and indeed during this plenary we can give the beginning of the processing of the assumptions of the year 2020, a decree that will only be valid during the first months of this year 2020, because we have a presuppositional agreement, an agreement that has been possible, that the parliamentary process has already begun and that will be validated in the plenary tomorrow, and we will have the opportunity to make the whole debate and value the positive contribution that these assumptions have for the citizen of the country. And yet, even this prediction of being able to approve the generality's assumptions in the next few weeks here in Parliament, it was necessary to approve a decree like this. Why do we have to approve it by decree? Although I have explained it on other occasions, I return to it today; I think it's important. Parliament..., and that is why parliaments were born, in fact, historically; they are the ones who authorize governments to be indebted. Therefore, during a presuppositional extension context we need a law that authorizes us to, precisely, either an increase in debt or the renewal of this debt, because public debt is what determines the decisions of the citizenry as well, the decisions of the government. Therefore, this question of authorizing the Government to carry out certain debt operations requires a law-class rule, the supreme rule that this Parliament can adopt, beyond, therefore, statutory or constitutional standards. Therefore, this decree does, in the first place, validate a rule with a law of these needs that I will explain, and then, for another band, also modify the text recast of the legislation in the matter of Catalonia needles, in the first place, therefore, in order to predict which is the performance of this legislation in relation to the type of interest that apply in certain operations linked to financed markets – therefore, a clearly funded link – but that it also authorizes the Vice-President's Department, Economy and History and the Department of Territories to do some urgent actions during this period of advocacy to initiate the processing of a determined project, but necessary for it to start, to the municipal health plan. If we look at the text of the law decree, it is structured into two articles, an additional provision and a final provision that only determines the entry into force. The first article responds to the financial needs that are indefatigable, that cannot wait to approve the presupposition while it lasts this presuppositional extension. The following article contains modifications in the text of the regulations in the matter of water supply in Catalonia. And, as I said, the additional provision authorizes the competent departments for the initiation of this project in the matter of water, in order to avoid the risk of flooding in the municipality of Salou. Entering into the detail of the text of the law decree – that you must have had the opportunity to read it, therefore, you see that it is a fundamentally technical law decree but that it would not have important implications for the functioning of the administration of the Generality alone, but on the day-to-day life of the citizens – when we go into detail and see the forecasts in the matter of financial needs, as I say, it is necessary for the Parliament to authorize with a rule of law the Government to formalise any debt operation while the presupposition lasts, and whenever the limit authorized for the same presupposition of 2017 is not exceeded. Therefore, while we do not have this law of assumptions approved, we need to have an authorization to formalize operations. We have loan write-offs, we have transactions in financial markets that come to an end in these first months that we will not have approved the premise and that are to be renewed. The non-renewal would produce payoffs and, therefore, a whole..., is to say, a whole dynamic that would position us, therefore, in a position of extreme vulnerability. Also, during these first weeks of the year, we will have to be in a position to sign the Autonomous Communities Financing Fund 2020, which is the financing mechanism for financial markets to which the Government of Catalonia accedes, which is not directly, but through this funding fund of the State; that for its natural nature it is a lending, debt, and therefore we need, as I say, a rule of law that we authorize. Therefore, the approval of this decree will allow us to formalize debt operations of all types, necessary and essential for the proper functioning of the Administration. It also sets out some specific forecasts. The Catalan Institute of Finance. The Catalan Institute of Finance, the deute vie que te..., I want to remind you that the Catalan Institute of Finance is not finance through the presupposition and, therefore, it is not finance through the taxes of the citizens of Catalonia, but that it is finance in the financial markets, but that it is an entity that forms part of the system of entities of the Generality of Catalonia... [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Thank you; so I get your attention. I already know that the Catalan Institute of Finance and the financial operations, so it is not a question that many times interests certain Members, but I already tell them that, if we can't formalize them, the problems that would involve us all. Therefore, it is necessary to prevent and act and to ensure that the Administration is in a position to carry out the operations that are close. The Catalan Institute of Finance will not be able to overcome the current debt, because it is finance through the markets, of more than 4,000_million euros by 2020. As you also know, the past year has brought to completion a recovery of direct management, the most important that has occurred in the history of Catalonia, which is the recovery of direct management of Aigua Ter-Llobregat. And, therefore, also linked to this recovery from the direct management of Aigua Ter-Llobregat, so the debts linked to this service are paid off. The same way that, when it was outsourced at the time, the debts that were associated with it were outsourced, when it was internalized, when it recovered direct management, so we also recovered these obligations. And, therefore, we authorize the Public Ens of Aigua Ter-Llobregat to subrogate itself in debt transactions, for an import that cannot exceed 374_million euros. A set of entities is also allowed, therefore, to formalise operations that can allow a small increase in their debt, which was authorized until 31 December of last year, for very specific imports. The Consorci Hospitalari de Vic, which has integrated the Fundació Hospital Sant Jaume de Manlleu in the past years and which does a social health function in the region of Osona, which also pays a debt for the infrastructures it manages, and therefore we have to authorize, up to a maximum of 5,6_million euros total debt. Secondly, the Hospital Universitari Sant Joan de Reus, which will have a new entity that will take over the management; therefore we also authorize it so that it also assumes the financial obligations that are associated with this hospital, up to a maximum of 53,9_million euros. The Scientific Park of Barcelona, up to a maximum of 30_million euros and mig. And the company Fira 2000, which will not be able to exceed its debt up to a maximum of 38,2_million euros. This later operation is important and shows that this decree law that we present here today, formally very technical, has implications in the day-to-day life of the citizenry, and part of the day-to-day life is the economic promotion of our country. We are driving the expansion of the Barcelona Fira in the Gran Via district and there is a new debt operation on the way to finance this expansion that must allow us to continue to situate Barcelona and Catalonia, so to the league – let me express it – to the Champions League of Firal Recindants at European and global level, and therefore to finance this operation. For another band, public entities that are required to pay amortization fees for financial transactions are authorized to do so because they can also attend the formalization of debt transactions during the budgetary extension period. The depreciations of these entities during the first quarter of this year are €48_million. Therefore, as far as legal authorization is concerned, the authorization of this Parliament, in a rule of law, to carry out these debt operations during this period; otherwise, they would run the risk of default and, therefore, problems..., not only the default itself, that this is already a problem, but in the future only to access bank credit or credit on the funded markets. And it would also be obvious that there would be interest in delay and, therefore, less liquidity for the rest of the expenditure. Then there is also an authority from the Government to endorse, that is to say, that the Government constitutes itself in guarantee of certain activities that carry to term entities of the perimeter of the Government of Catalonia. For example, the Barcelona Science Park, which has, therefore, the obligation of the return of some prestecs before the General Administration of the State, we constitute ourselves as swallows – this we had already done in previous exercises, but we renew it –; the Consortium of the Biomedical Research Park of Barcelona, and therefore, these two actions consider us as swallows. We also authorize the Agency for the Management of University Aid and Research to endorse the financial entities that have, therefore, signed the agreement of collaboration and guarantee of risk for the loan that is given to the students of the master to finance the import of the university registration, which is an activity that we already carry from many years ago, but someone has to be confident, and in this case it is the conjunction of the city, through the Generalitat Catalunya. In the area of guarantees, the Government is authorized to grant guarantees in favour of the Catalan Institute of Finance for EUR 123 million, because it can be agreed with the Habitatage Agency – this has been mentioned here by Councillor Calvet and myself – with reference to the lines of credence that have been opened in the field of social housing promotion, also the acquisition of habitats exercising the right of aunty and retraction; this is done by the Catalan Institute of Finance, which gives these loans, but someone has to support it, the Government of Catalonia, and with this decree we authorize it. Also, like the Generalitat, for the loan that is given to enterprises of social economy or agricultural enterprises, agri-food and forestry that makes the Department of Agriculture, that gives this guarantee. Also in the field of trade and development of the industrial sector, which it does through the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge. Or the loans that are given to communities of owners for the rehabilitation of buildings, which is done through, therefore, a fund endowed for the Department of Territories and Sustainability. Therefore, so far the financial, essential, necessary needs to ensure the functioning of the day-to-day, and some of these decisions, which are very important and have an impact on the citizenry, are not seen to be truncated. Second place, changes to the legislation in the matter of water supply in Catalonia. In the first place, we need to change the legislation in the matter of needles in order to impact the cost of the investments made by the Catalan Agency of Water when they make certain singular hydraulic infrastructures, in order to impact it, obviously, to whom it benefits. In this case, in all that is the conca of the Llobregat, you know, therefore, that a collector of salmorres is on the way that it is also to allow the environmental viability of a certain industry of the Bages ; as this brings to term the Catalan Agency of the Water and benefits also certain companies, this is to be collected, right? And, therefore, what we do is to ensure that the types of interest are also embedded in this impact. And, also, as I said, in the municipal term of Salou, we also authorize, therefore, the departments of Vice-President, Economy and History and Territories and Sustainability for the processing of the dispatch for the project of mitigation of the flood risk of the health barrier, to the municipal term of Salou, in concrete to the barren of Barenys, to avoid that it is overflowing in episodes of intense rain, which is one of the most unique situations that we have in our country. And, obviously, it also authorizes departments to carry out expropriations for the execution of this project. All this, obviously, will be validated in the assumptions that we present tomorrow in this chamber and that we submit to the totality debate. Therefore, we understand that the urgency and the need that corresponds to the scope of a decree are fully justified. And, therefore, we ask them to vote in favour of their validation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.3.0	Thank you, Vice President. We then move on to the interventions of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups to fix their position in a turn of intervention that, according to the Board of Spokesmen, will be of a maximum of two minutes for the parliamentary groups and five minutes for the sub-groups. It has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.4.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies. Gentlemen of the Government and Mr Aragonès, you are still immersed in that perpetual hamster wheel. Today they present a decree law that confirms precisely this statement. Today they complete a decade of inefficiency; a whole decade without presenting the budgets of the Generalitat in time; a whole decade with the obligation to present decrees, such as the one that presents us today, of budgetary extension, decrees to indebt itself by not having the budgets updated. Because the budgetary extension does not mark this decree, the budgetary extension takes place automatically when on 1 January no budgets have been approved, which is precisely what has happened in the last ten years. And this shows us their total lack of political will to worry about themselves, and, more importantly, to deal with the real problems of citizenship. Because it is obvious that it is useful to have budgets: it serves to make policy for the benefit of citizens, to design optimal services, which in its case is doubtful even having budgets, and it is doubtful by the use they make of public resources. And it is that, if they really cared about Catalans and their well-being, they would involve a hundred_per_cent in the elaboration of budgets, because to involve a hundred_per_cent is to involve oneself in body and soul to improve health, education and to cover social needs so that no one stays behind. If 100_per_cent were involved we would have on the table budgets in time, new budgets before October 10, which is the deadline set by the law. And we would have them without fail to put them in place on 1 January each year, and thus not lose a single minute, nor a single euro in improving the services of our autonomous community, developing their competences. I ask you: are you really not aware that this is what the budgets are for? They are to make policy, to make good policies with the resources that feed on citizens' taxes. That, in short, is your mission, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, a mission you have forgotten. You are neither to show your internal struggles nor to disobey the judges; you have been elected within a democratic country to manage our autonomous community well. But they're not doing their job. Because not only have we had a decade of out-of-date budgets; the current ones have been extended since 2017. It is three years of budget extension, three years without a new budget law that updates social and economic policies that contribute to the welfare of citizens; it is three years without the most important law that is passed in this Parliament, the Budget Act. Do they not really realize that this is the law that allows politics to be done for the benefit of Catalans? In the end, we come to the conclusion that they will already be well off without budgets. It has allowed them to consolidate the cuts in the 2017 budget, it has allowed them to extend the cuts for three more years and try to cover up their governance. And what is really serious is that the result is three years more being the autonomous community with the longest waiting lists of dependency in all of Spain, with the longest waiting lists in health care in all of Spain; three years more being the autonomous community where more children study in barracks; the one that has not allocated a single euro to education from zero to three years; the one that has been unable to fully return the extra payments of officials; the one that has abandoned the Industrial Plan, which is so much like leaving the Catalan industry; the one that has been unable to guarantee a trilingual education; the one that has cut in the lines of P3 instead of improving the educational quality by reducing the ratio of children by class; the one that has seen how suffering increased year after year, seeing how the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion grew; the one that has seen how the poverty rate at work has been rising for three consecutive years, where more than 14_percent of the workers cannot have a decent life, despite having a job. An autonomous community that does not invest in innovation or knowledge, and that allows jobs to become more precarious and inequalities to increase. But, however, they are leaders in embezzlement of public funds, with waste in propaganda campaigns, waste in expensive computer systems to appropriate the personal data of Catalans using the CTTI as key piece; wasting indecent amounts of public resources in external action to speak ill of Spain, to stick one shot in the foot and articulate their story. Look, they've used the budget to divide and confront Catalan society, giving supposedly democratic lessons, handing out good and bad Catalan notebooks. They have been in debt as if there were no tomorrow: they accumulate 79,000_million_of_euros in public debt, 10,500_euros per Catalan; a debt that is qualified as a garbage bond. And it's that, in order not to have independence, they don't even have financial independence. They sell a lot of smoke in their statements, but they're unable to get into the financial markets. Who will lend money to managers like you? No one. And so they have an absolute dependence on the Autonomous Liquidity Fund or the Financial Facility Fund, which is endowed with the solidarity of all Spaniards. That's right, they've hit all the records and expelled more than five thousand companies, all of them from IBEX 35; they've hurt trade, tourism and foreign investment. All the economic agents in Catalonia do their job except you. Gentlemen of the Government, don't you really see that this is being your sad legacy? It is the legacy with which they will pass into history; a legacy imbued with lewdness and mismanagement. And it is that they are even unable to defend the resources of Catalans. They don't go to funding meetings. We are left without a vote in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which is where the issues of autonomous financing are discussed. We have an autonomous financing system expired since 2014. Move! Don't they say they don't like the current system of autonomous financing? Despite the fact that you, gentlemen of the Republican Left, were the ones who approved it in your day and praised it. Well, defend your model. They're planning improvements. They plan improvements to make it more transparent, to make it easier to understand, to propose improvements to reduce adjusted per capita differences, to propose greater control of the autonomous communities over income. But, yes, assuming greater responsibility for his actions, not misrepresenting or being disloyal. Work to get a better vertical distribution system. Even, if you see this – which I do not share because I am a faithful defender of solidarity and equality – they defend a system of ordinality, where what is perceived per adjusted inhabitant is ordered according to the contribution of each autonomous community. But, understand me, if you don't go where you play, how are you going to improve the system? If they don't, how are they going to defend all that list of grievances that always nourish their litany? Do not repeat them to us constantly; what you have to do is go there and demand them, it is go there and negotiate them, defend them. And he defends those with arguments, but not demanding territorial privileges. In Spain we all have to be free and equal citizens; citizens who also form a unit of decision, with principles of justice, freedom, equality and shared solidarity, without raising borders. Because when a border is raised, we move on to something else; we move on to the world of international law. And there are limits to solidarity – which is what you are ultimately defending. And I always tell you: it is essential to regenerate the Catalan administration. We can't move forward without reforming it. You have to leave that scale of priorities that you have right now. Now your priorities are: first, you and your friends; then, your customer networks; third, your propaganda; fourth, all those expenses to appear to be what you are not; and then, if there is any money and time left between travel and travel, we take care of the rest. Without regeneration and ending all that, we will never be able to improve our autonomous community; everything will continue to be burdened by the process. If they do not, any decision they make is conditioned by their identity infiltrators. For the sake of the Catalans, it is imperative that they put aside all that junk. If you want to feel independent, feel yourself – everyone is free to feel as they please – but don't skip the laws, don't use everyone's resources to finance their irresponsibility. Don't follow us..., especially don't follow us, really, on ecological issues, giving the bat. Because every euro that is wasted or embezzled is one_euro minus for health– and they are patients who are having it wrong–, is one_euro minus for education– and harms equal opportunities –, is one_euro minus to target social issues and therefore one_euro plus suffering, and is one_euro minus to improve the Catalan economy, one_euro minus to fight against job insecurity and one_euro minus to defend industry. Look, what they really show us ten years of budget extension and three years with the same extended budget is that over all these years they have contributed nothing good to the Catalans; they have been too busy with their subjects. We do not endorse their misgovernment or the 2017 budget. But we cannot allow suppliers to stop charging for their laxity. We will not do electoralism – with the things of eating we do not play – and, out of responsibility, we will not put sticks to this decree law and we will abstain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.5.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.6.0	Good afternoon, President. Vice-President, advisers, advisers, deputies and deputies, listening to Vice-President Aragonès, who already costs the first hour of late, after the dinar [[relays]] , a..., looks like you're explaining a very technical issue, was done by the vice president... [[remorse of the voice]] - I'm telling you with all my love. I mean, the hours sometimes don't... yes, the hours sometimes don't facilitate these listenings, especially when you use such a technical language, such a sophisticated language, to explain something that you and Vice President Junqueras thought was technical. And so do they, as a minimum, hear us. But it's very technical what we're bringing here today: today you're bringing us a presumptive law decree. And I think it would be good for the deputies to know why they're bringing it to us, and what that means. Because today they bring us this decree because you, the government, have not done the work. And do you know how long they're not doing the job, Vice President Aragonès? Porten gave years! We've had two years since the 1st gene we don't have an approved presupposition. And it's not the extraordinary; the extraordinary is not to approve it when it touches. The Public Finance Act – which you have certainly mentioned – says that on October 10th the premises must be brought into Parliament. So, in the last two years, in the last decade, they have never entered them before October 10, never, and never approved to enter into force the 1st generation. So you haven't done the job. And this time we thought we could do it, because, in fact, the year 2019 was a year when things didn't happen: we had a Parliament throughout the year, there were no elections; we didn't have any problems because you have the month of generation, fever, March, April, May, you are put to work in a pressure, in a new pressure. He didn't have a problem. In any case, obviously, you do not have a majority of Parliamentarians and you have to negotiate it, like everyone else in life when you want to approve things and, therefore, you have had plenty of time to put forward assumptions in the October and keep them in force as the 1st generation. That's why I'm telling you that you don't come here to explain something purely technical: "No, look, here's a decree reading down, the loans, the debts... No. You're going to tell us here that since you haven't done the job we're all responsible – now it seems that Ciutadans are responsible, what I needed to listen to in this Parliament! So he goes to say to us: "Be responsible and vote for this decree, because it is technical. No, no, it's not technical. You have not done the work and want us to remain responsible for your incapacitated. So, we're not. And if anyone wants to be, let them be, but we don't. Look, and then, you: "Technical questions, because, of course, the debts... Listen, it's not technical that you come to bring us here some endorsements, some issues with the back and with the debts, basically because the generality debt is close to 80_million euros, a very important, very important, two-thirds of which a debt with the State and, therefore, we, swallow according to what we won't do. We'd be happy to have some more detailed information on that. But anyway, listen to me, we're carrying two years of presuppositional prorogations... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What do you mean what throws? Listen to me, Vice President, it turns out that you are wearing two years of presuppositional prorogation, you have increased the debt... Miri, when the tripartite... Well, you, the government that forms part of since the year 2013, that since the opposition already voted for the assumptions and many laws. Yes, yes, 2013 has already voted for you the assumptions of President Mas. So, look, when the tripartite leaves the generality, the debt was 24_million euros, and now it's about 80_1,000. And you will say to me: "It is they who have made me weak. Yes, the deficit they left in 2010 was €9 million. Now you don't have a problem because the Presupposition Act doesn't leave it, but the debt has increased barbarity. That's to say, I don't use one thing for the other, because I think there's a loss in comparison, and especially because in this lost decade we haven't seen any strategic projects, no substantial reversal that you've made to change the country. On the contrary, the data and the information and explanations that we will give tomorrow are quite negative – I say tomorrow because you see the debate of assumptions –, quite negative for what it does to inequality, to the poor child, to school segregation, and we can continue... And, therefore, it seems to us that you... I don't know what to throw away the others, but you have responsibility, because since 2013 you are ruling and, therefore, listen to me, every one you take on your responsibilities. Maybe you didn't have a council in 2013, but you were giving support to President Mas's government. It's true that, of course, it's hard to figure this out, huh? I also want to tell the common people: how to give support from the outside to broken or divided governments, who have no plans for the future or with whom they do not share the policy they develop, because I wonder what happened to him in Esquerra: in the end he was caught, supporting that government from the outside, as Vice President Aragonès did. So, oll. Look, the consequence of two years of presuppositional prorogation, of two years without approving the assumptions when it touches, brings instability and renounces to solve the problems that the country has and the challenges that it can face. These are the consequences, and we cannot be, in any way, accomplices, for much of what you are responsible for. We have responsibility as a group against the opposition, pushing the government and proposing things, which are often adopted and unfortunately the government does not apply. But we can't be held accountable because we're voting for a decree that's your fault that's being debated in this chamber today. I've done my job, I'm hard to know. Have you had to negotiate with a new partner? Sure. Have you been long? Sure. But that's not an excuse either, because I don't have the assumptions when I play. And, look, they didn't bring it this time, and 2019 is over, too. That is to say, you brought us a presuppositional extension and, when you could have submitted some presuppositions in 2019, you didn't do it either. They made an act of propaganda explaining to the media that premise, but neither the Executive Council nor the Member of Parliament approved it. It is to say, that, look, they have had almost two years to be able to go to work, to be able to go to work because this 2020 yes, at 1 genera, we have assumptions. And they didn't either. I told you the other day: assumptions that come late and an unwarranted law of prorogation. I gave it to you at an extraordinary and exceptional time. We don't see him anywhere. It's a normal situation, in which you could have approved a 1st gene assumption and didn't. And for that reason, you'll know why. I've given him examples many times. There are other autonomous, escorted communities that have approved the assumptions before the year ended. He made Andalusia, on the 12th of September; he made it the Valencian Community or the Balearic Islands, on the 19th of December. That's to say, everyone does the work when they play and we don't know why we're carrying a decade, a decade, without doing it. And I think this year, at least this year, they could have done it. The truth is that I gave it to him before he remembered me, listening to him very much, Vice President Junqueras, because I was reading the speech they made in 2017, when he brought us that presuppositional extension, and the truth is that I could read the thread for a while what I said that year, that's to say, three years ago. And I think, in fact, that everyone would have understood me, because we said exactly the same thing today: that we cannot endorse a decree of presuppositional prorogation when you could have done the work before. And I could read it the way it is, I don't think anyone could read it the way it is. That day we voted against this decree law, today the commons, and then Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, they could not read Joan Coscubiela's intervention, because at that time Catalonia Yes, it was He could vote against it, and he used arguments very similar to what we used. The situation has changed, obviously, but we, like at least, have maintained this coherence: 2017 we said 'no'; not in other years, when the elections did not allow a presumption of the 1st generation, but it could have brought it to term in 2017 and it could have brought it to term in 2020. And, therefore, we will maintain this coherence, we will not endorse this decree law, which is not technical, it is political, very political, and it has an important responsibility in this government. We have always said to them: the responsibility and obligation to bring some assumptions here is of the government, after, of the chamber, of approving them, but of the government to seek those majorities and, therefore, with this obligation and with this responsibility, we leave them. We, as I say, will vote fairly, as we did this 2017, because among other things we do not believe that we should support a government that, according to the citizens, only 1.5 of these say that solves some problems. Home, a 1.5 is very few citizens to solve problems. Neither did they do it with the 2017 presupposition that we are now extending, nor do we believe that we should do it with the presupposition that seems to have passed this 2020. Therefore, our vote against a law that is not technical, is very political, and that later entails a lot of responsibility for a government that has not done the job for a long time, which is broken, divided and without a shared project. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.8.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, listening to the last intervention, I would like to make an initial reflection, which is that one irresponsibility is not covered with another irresponsibility. It is true that 2017 you abstained, but it must be that the memory – ah, you voted against – but it must be that the memory is selective because last year you abstained. And, curiously, you retired in 2017. It's true that the situation has changed. In fact, if you have listened to Pedro Sánchez, you have listened to him when he came last week that he is good for Catalonia and that he is good for Spain that there are assumptions of the Generality. And I think a bunch of votes don't justify covering one irresponsibility with another. [[Some applause.]] I think we're ahead of the typical presuppositional prorogation decree, but I think a presuppositional prorogation decree deserves a pair or three of reflections. The first is that this government, from the 1st until it calls for elections, should have taken seriously what it means to govern this country and has not done so. The latest survey by the CEO said that only 1.6_percent of Catalonia's citizens believe that this government solves people's problems. It is a result to me that I would be ashamed, that I would be embarrassed as a Member of the Opposition for our responsibility, but if I were Vice President of this Government, I personally would be ashamed, as I would be ashamed to be a Councillor of this Government. And I find that if we're in this situation today, it's precisely because from day one you didn't assume that the responsibility of a government is not to open an electoral dispute to see who will win the next elections, but to govern to solve the people's problems, as well as the issues of the mobility of these institutions, but also the people's problems. And I think this hasn't been present in these two years and government failure. Now there's a lot left of the legislature – we don't know how much – but, man, you've got some ambitious tape. It won't be 50_per_cent, but maybe if we get to 2_per_cent of Catalans who think you've solved some problem, two_of_per_cent, you could shut down the legislature saying: "Now, now we've taken over quickly, now we've got ourselves..., now we've called elections. That's a bad luck, but well... After that, you didn't just rule poorly and you didn't just rule out 90-and-a-hundred-per-cent rule of the country that you think you didn't solve any problems, but you ruled late. And that's why we're here today. The presupposition of 2020 should have already been approved, it should have been approved in November or December, but at 1 generation it should have been approved, and it has not been. And that's irresponsible and it's unfair, it's unfair to a lot of people in Catalonia who deserve public services that work. And it is unfair for many public workers in this country and for many people working in third-sector entities in terms of social assistance or in terms of the third environmental sector. It is unfair to have a government that does not approve the assumptions when it touches and that continually puts the viability of public services in this country at risk. And this country doesn't deserve such a government. And I think the CEO's data are a good indicator. It is not worthy of such a government, and therefore, what we ask of them is that the one left in the legislature is taken seriously in this country, since you have not done so throughout the legislature. And the third thought I'd like to do. Either it is against the assumptions that will be presented tomorrow, or it is against the presuppositional prorogations, because if it is against the two things, what is being demanded is that the Generality incur defaults in order to be able to campaign for defaults. And that's public irresponsibility. And I believe that neither this Parliament nor the citizens of this country deserve to bet on the worst stage ever. It's a bit of a scandal, and it's getting absconded, and the PSC is making the speech he's making. We are defending what we were defending last year, and it is the Generality that must be able to take on its commitments, even though it is urgent and even though it is being decreed as a result of irresponsibility, because if it does not do so it is worse for the city as a whole. And more this year, which I think is obvious that this situation is transitory, that it will have assumptions and that it is therefore transitory, and that if there are urgent measures that require Generality investments that generate debt it is normal that we can approve today a decree of presuppositional prorogation. We would have abstained, as we did last year, even though we are not negotiating with you on these assumptions and we will also do so today because we understand that, beyond the electoral dispute that will take place a few months from now in Catalonia, it goes ahead with the responsibility of being a Member in this Parliament. And so, we understand that responsibility goes hand in hand to avoid all situations of default and to avoid among everyone who has plans and actions that are hard to finish that are not due to end, such as, for example, the project that you commented on to mitigate the flood risk in Salou or other projects that require debt. We believe that the main problem with this government is that it has not done more than this type of thing, that it has abandoned planning and public investment for two years and that it does not start today. Last but not least, a reflection: it is obvious that, even if there are parliamentary groups that do not take it, we are starting a new stage in this country. There will be dialog table, there will be assumptions, that after two years of retail recovery, there will be elections. And I think it is necessary to ask today that the next government of Catalonia is not at the height of this government, not as bad government as this government has been and not governments at 99 percent of the people who say that this government has not solved any problems. Because we have lost two years, we have lost two years in the great folds of this country, in the fight for equality, in the fight against social exclusion, against the poor, in the defense of public servants... And we've lost two years in everything that involved making strategic investments for the future of this country. To deploy an energetic transition to the height of the reptes of this country; to defend our model of industry and our productive economy through the National Pact for Industry; to defend our model of knowledge, etcetera. We've lost two years. And the only thing we're asking for at this new stage is not having a government that makes us lose a decade again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.9.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.10.0	Well, good afternoon. The Vice-President said that this decree is necessary to approve debt operations, to increase debt, to approve credit subrogations or to meet indefensible financial needs. But, in fact, the one who authorizes these financial transactions or whom you authorize are in any case the conditions set out in the Presuppositional Act. The only one you have decided, Mr. Vice President, is to continue to rule with little autonomy left to Parliament and the Government. Meanwhile, they take us and rob us of our ability to decide. You said there was a need for funding that was unstoppable. We would also like to feel this concept with the social needs, the unaffordable social needs, but it seems that there are first-class and second-class citizens: first go ahead with the financial markets and then the people. Miri, you don't have the capacity to control autonomous finances; control has always been carried out by the financial markets. You're talking about the ICF, but the ICF, which is a public entity, is an extremely opaque entity and transparent people. In fact, we have already asked for information about the forgiveness of the Zeta Group's debt, because there was a forgiveness of €9.2 million, after this entity was acquired by the Iberian Press group, and we are still waiting for the information. They seem to want us to go to the same department to see piles of information so we don't give exactly who the conditions of the debt's forgiveness were. You too have forgotten, Vice President– you have not commented on this– you have forgotten that in this very decree it is also about the endorsement of the Circuit de Catalunya, Formula 1. Beyond the fact that there is a public company or a majority participating in the Government of Catalonia, obviously endorse this company because there is a third one, which is the manager of Formula 1, which has all the guarantees, so, look, it does not seem right to us and to us in no case will they find us there. It seems incredible to us that in this case they find Catalonia in Comú Posos avalant le circuit de Formula 1. For another band, you also told us about the Hospital Universitari Sant Joan de Reus, a hospital that generated debt permanently and that was managed by the joint venture at the time of the tripartite, and that now it seems that you have made a consortium with the aim that this hospital is managed jointly between the joint venture and the Generality, but you have not made any audit of the debt, no audit of the debt. It's because you're in debt, you make financial commitments, but investments are of general interest. And the truth is that this debt that was finally accumulating ended up paying the whole city. As always, we continue to socialize the losers. For another gang, you also told us about the municipality, not the internalization, excuses, bigger than was done in the history of the Government of the Generality. It would have been a detail that I had commented that this internalization was done at a time when the UPC agreed on this with you, because there was also, behind that pact, not just anti-social assumptions – we were honest, they were anti-social assumptions and they didn't deserve the majority of the population – there was also this internalization pact Aigues Ter Llobregat. And today you are also assuming a lot of debts that were produced during the private management of this service and that enriched the pockets of private entrepreneurs, but in the end we end up paying among all. And then, the Catalonian spokesman in Comú, in Lucas, says that... well, to see if the government with these assumptions begins to rule in favor of the people. So, look, these assumptions in your 95,2_per_cent are exactly the same as the first project the government presented to us last year. Exactly the same. If they compare the parties, they are exactly the same. I don't know what made them change their mind. It is true that there is a margin of more expenditure, of approximately 1,300_million euros, but according to the same department 1,200_million euros are already needed to keep things as they are. They're the assumptions of the C-32, they're the assumptions of the Hard Rock. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] They're the same assumptions they gave them last year. Well, we'll get on with this debate tomorrow. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.12.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, in the first place, I want to make a point, right? , because we talked about the deficit..., the debt of the end of the year 2010 and I like to be precise. Mrs Romero spoke of 24,000, the reality is 31.886, a small deviation of 8,000_millions which, taking into account that also the deficit of the year 2010 was 8,352_millions, therefore, says a bit of how first – first – the tripartite government, not only the tripartite of the Socialist Party, Mr Aragonès, but also the tripartite of the Republican Left. All this not to mention, for example, the more than €54,000_million in investments up to 2020 and which you know perfectly well that a year back is the only investment that the Generalitat de Catalunya can make. Let's go to the decree, decree that it is not strictly an extension decree, the extension is automatic at 31 December, and, in any case, what is done in this decree is usually determined measures to facilitate the payment of the debt, to facilitate the payment of depreciations with new debt, but it also authorizes downside and authorizes guarantees so that the entities of the Generality can continue to operate with a certain normality. And when these poorly-named decrees come in, that come to renew these authorities that are making the government, it's because they haven't done their dues, right? Someone hasn't done their homework. And that may be that the assumptions arrive late in Parliament because they are negotiating with some particular parliamentary group or because they are being forwarded to Parliament – in this case they are being forwarded to Parliament. Last year we learned that this could also happen even though there were no negotiations or negotiations, but simply because the government did not approve assumptions, which is what you did last year, right? Therefore, I believe that if this legislature ends up going through history for something precisely because of the government's passiveness, a government that in a year and a half has been unable to approve some assumptions and that, when it seems – when it seems, then I will end up referring, to this – that you could end up approving, say you would call elections, right? So, it's a little bit of a situation, the truth, slick. Indeed, as I said, in this decree there are common debt operations, endorsements and guarantees, and there are two more operations. One, the modification of the legislation of needles to enable the investments that are made in the Salmur collector of the Llobregat, if it is, obviously, in debt, the types of interest can also be reflected in the price on the beneficiaries of this Salmor collector. And another element, which we give much more importance to, because we understand that it demonstrates the Government's willingness to face a work that is important and that is essential above all for the veins of Salou's health barrier, which is the barren barren of Barenys. The Government is authorized, in this case, to carry out the expropriations in the long term. What we found missing was the presupposition of all these actions. It is to say, to authorize the government to make the expropriations on one side, if there is not the presuppositional inscription on the other side, and in the presuppositions there is not – and in the presuppositions there is not –, I have not heard much. They tell us from the government that the idea is to resort to the contingency fund to be able to cope with this expenditure and, therefore, hard to finish these expropriations as quickly as possible. So good, that's how it goes. And, therefore, this is one of the elements that allows us to at least not put ourselves on the front line with this decree. Debt operations, basically there are some that are structural, that can be considered structural, because they are repetitive every year, such as that of Formula 1, which is earlier, or that of the Catalan Institute of Finance, but there are no others that are more conjunctural than that of ATLL, that of the Consorci Hospitalari de Vic or that of the Hospital Sant Joan de Reus. And I finish our intervention. We obviously will not support this decree, but we will not oppose it, nor prevent it from maintaining its validity and, therefore, its validation. Now, what I'm most surprised about is that the most beautiful porter of all who have intervened in the validation of this decree has followed that of Can and has left the government there..., which is that they want you to pray now. [[Rialles.]] I'm a little surprised, aren't I? It's just that it's very easy. If they want the government to go, they have the opportunity tomorrow: they vote in favour of the campaign in totality and on April 5th we find all of us folded in the ballot box. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.14.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, very late. First of all, I would like to begin this intervention by conveying my condolences to the Maragall family, both to the honourable president and to friend Ernest. That said, I'd like to make some brief references to some of the things that have been said a few moments ago. From the outset, it seemed to us very little tuned and very little respectful of the reality of Mrs Romero's intervention, an intervention that is not close to the trajectory of a party of her import and of course not responding to a lack of rigour, surely and very possibly you have to respond more to a certain coldness of not being part of the solution, not being part of the combination of political formations that do not advance her short-term tactics and pose from the table her will and her vocation and commitment to finding the windows of opportunity that bring solutions to the city of our country. Look, you blamed Vice President Aragones for the last two years – for the last two years. I already know that many of the advisors in the last tripartite of the PSC are no longer at the PSC. But maybe it would be worth it if you gave me a certain recognition to President Montilla and his team, who had been president for years, was a Montilla, to which I say all my respects. You said that, according to you, this country has been in a state of failure because of Mr. Aragones. Look, do you know who approved the 2012 assumptions? The People's Party and Convergence and Union. The People's Party abstained, that's right. Who facilitated the approval of the 2012 assumptions? Popular Party and Convergence and Union. If you want, you can hold Mr. Pere Aragonès and a lot of people from Esquerra Republicana accountable for what the Government of the Generality has done since 2016, when Vice President Junqueras takes over the Economics Council, all and absolutely all of the responsibilities. In 2012 and 2010 we can have a certain participation, but a little rigour. And if we need to speak of presuppositionary rigour, and assuming the share of responsibility we share as political formation, we don't pose it as an example in 2010 – we don't pose it as an example in 2010. It's the worst year of the presuppositional management of the Government of the Generality. Therefore, it would be good if we could discuss it with a major respect for what is reality. In any case, as has already been said, we are starting this plenary today with the opportunity to break what has been going on for the past three years and to be able to approve, a few weeks from now, a number of presuppositions for the Government of Catalonia. It's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up, it's a step up. Someone said: "No, there must be elections. Lately, if we all remember, there were elections, and, as we know, electoral circumstances make it difficult for us to be there for a pact that is often complex and often has its difficulties. We have discussed extensively the problems that arise from the presuppositional prorogations, and we obviously assume them. And, as Vice-President Aragones has already commented, the presuppositional prorogations are hardly very obvious in the context. It seems that some in their interventions oblivion that the past year seven autonomous communities extended their assumptions, of all political colors; that this year five autonomous communities have extended their assumptions, and that the Government of the State, PP and PSOE – PP and PSOE, the Government of the State –, is four years old, since 2016..., which did not approve the assumptions within the corresponding terms. Therefore, it is not a matter of saying evil of many, comfort of fools, it is not a matter of this. It is simply a matter of assuming the reality as it is: fragmentation, parliamentary political maps today make it difficult to approve the assumptions in the terms they correspond to, and certainly, here in Catalonia, the circumstances of Catalan policy that have been in our lives, unfortunately, for a few years now, still make it much more complicated that we can process and manage the public administration of this Parliament in a normal way. Because if anything has the political situation that Catalonia has seen, and this Parliament in concrete terms, it is that it has not been absolutely normal. With the main leaders of the democratic and social political forces engaged, with a vice-president of the Government of the Generality disqualified, with drawings of imputed government posts, with drawings of mayors and deputies of this Parliament imputed by strictly political facts, obviously these circumstances make the political life of the country always less normal. And, obviously, it's circumstances that make the correct and proper and normal handling of parliamentary proceedings even more complicated. But, in any case, as much as the complex political circumstances that correspond to us, let us hope that a few weeks from now this Parliament will be able to finally approve some assumptions. And this will be possible, as I mentioned earlier, thanks to the willingness and commitment of various political formations. And thank in a very, very explicit way the compromise of the group of commons. It seems to me that all the prayers have been able to interpret that in the complexity of the political moment that the country was experiencing, it is appropriate to open a window of opportunity to responsibility, to the dialog, and that you allow us to reduce the tension that educational sectors, that the health sector, that the care sector of our country, to put some examples, that public services in general in Catalonia can no longer endure more, and that the country needed to be able to dispose of new assumptions. And it also touches today, barely the weights of some, because they make some drawings of a catastrophic situation in our country, to recognize that the good management presupposition..., as well as the circumstances, and to have to take over the management for a great deal of time, has succeeded that during the last few years, thanks to the good economic management on behalf of the Department of Economics – in its moment, Oriol Junqueras as Vice President and Councillor of Economics, at these times on behalf of Pere Aragonès as Vice President and Councillor of Economics –..., a management with rigor and effectiveness. To the extent that the retail policies applied back in the past have been reversed, without the need for excessive deficits, as in other cases; the level of expenditure in anticipation of the crisis has been recovered, and at the same time the public deficit has been allowed to be controlled, the payment terms to the supplier have been drastically reduced and the debt's weight has been reduced over our gross domestic product, and effectively. And it was possible to implement and develop the commitments made, many of the commitments made in this Parliament: the recovery of the external payments of the officials, the guaranteed income of the citizenry or the increase of the teaching staff, to give some examples. A government that complicates the objectives of deficit, but that is also a government that complements its commitments, that executes until after the presuppositional parties to which it has committed itself. I make assumptions and compromise with public servants, even in circumstances as adverse as we have to live. And tomorrow, if everything goes as planned, we will have to have the debate of the reviews to the full of the assumptions of 2020 in the long run, but today we are in a position to continue to manage the while. And it's important to manage the while, because that's where the citizens of our country are waiting. Vice-President Aragonès has perfectly explained this: all the measures that are taken with this extension law, which allow us to carry out a whole series of debt operations and facilitate the functioning of very important entities for our country... And the function of what we are here, the function of parliamentary groups to the government and to opposition, and to recognize the compromise and responsibility of some of the political formations of opposition, which have stated that they will facilitate approval after this decree of prorogation..., to recognize that we need to respond to these needs of day-to-day, these needs of the citizens of our country. All in all, it seems to me that we are ahead of a decree that is marked by this day-to-day management of the Generality, that it must allow the normal functioning of hospitals, research centres, student scholarships; that it must enable a series of urgent actions in the field of water, in the area of the barriers, important for our country, and, in any case, a decree that has the objective of guaranteeing this while of the Public Administration and that seems to be phonenal that from parliamentary groups we facilitate their approval. And of course they still have time, some of the groups that have expressed their opinion, to form part of the solutions, to form part of the whole set of parliamentary groups, that we are going to make it easier for the country to continue to function and that while, despite the elections, despite the political divisions, we continue to respond to the citizenship of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Narcis Clara.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.16.0	Thank you, President..., Vice President – I'm sorry – or President. [[Rialles.]] Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, I had planned to start my intervention saying that this was certainly a very technical, or technical, law; but after the intervention of the Member of Parliament Romero, he certainly made me doubt, because three or four times he repeated that he was not. And then, well, it has to be said that it doesn't cost me much to doubt – it has to be a small flaw that I have, too – and I have looked for it in the dictionary, and say exactly – one of the entries, obviously –: "Procedure or set of rules that you have to get a definite result. Well, from this point of view, I think that it can be absolutely accepted that it is a technical law decree, because it creates a set of rules that will certainly lead us to adapt financing needs of publics, of the same Generality but also of many other publics, such as now the depreciations that win in this exercise or well the performance of downstreams and guarantees. That said, by the way, in my presentation, we say, referring to the decree of the law. While the context in which these assumptions have been extended is not a direct object of this debate, it is also unnecessary to analyse it. The main thing to highlight is the existence of an agreement between the Republican Group, Catalonia in Comú Pode and Juntes for Catalonia to approve the presuppositions of 2020; I say this for all those Members..., for example Mr Cano, who before expressed himself as if there was no presupposition agreement at this time, when it is precisely what the citizenry knows, that there is no one, and it is the most important fact of these weeks. As I mentioned a while ago, this fact is not relevant to this decree, given that the current financial needs of the affected entities are independent of the presuppositional processing, which can also be extended for a few months. In this context, this week the Government of the State has reported two important decisions. For a band, it has notified that it authorizes autonomous communities to borrow a 0.2_per_cent of their GDP. This would be a good bitter face; it says bitter because, applying the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, it means that Catalonia would have a significantly higher increment, of the order of 50_per_cent more. For another band, unfortunately, the other resolution cannot even be considered in case of bona – before I spoke of good bitter face, in this case it is already painful – because the State will not pay the corresponding VAT in 2017. It cannot be described as surprising bad news, since the incompliments of the past few years, in all sorts of areas, are frequent and considerable. But to prove it one time and another forces us to continue complaining about what is close to the citizen of Catalonia, more than being inopportune and very disappointing. There are societies that are developing in a rigid and rigorous system; others, just the opposite. But the State in which we find ourselves always applies for its benefit the famous cherry picking that put in fashion some British policies in relation to the rights and obligations of your country respect the European Union. I explain: it is a matter of selecting at every moment where it pleases and dislikes, without applying a general criterion. The case that affects us is not exactly the same, but worse, because who does the selection is who also approves the standards. They make a simile – which I already accept in advance, you can make all the objections that you think are appropriate, because that's exactly why it's a simile – it's as if one of the players has a game of chess that decides that the horses of the other can't jump anymore or that the pins can move diagonally, but no more than two boxes. Naturally, I have consciously forgotten to comment that at the start of the game one of the players is missing a few fish. I have consciously forgotten, because this would involve debate about the fiscal deficit and the principle of ordinaryity, a discussion that has already been raised several times in this Parliament and that today you probably do not come up. At this point, too, a couple of comments or reflections that have been made previously on what you give each català. Escotin, 2018 data: the debt of the Spanish State is 97,6_per_cent, which is maintained more or less stable – that is true – but not because it has fallen in absolute terms; on the contrary, because it has increased in absolute terms, but it has raised GDP. Then, if you divide for the population, it is about 2,500_euros per person. Besides, of all his apocalyptic list about Catalonia... I didn't have time to write them all, obviously, but I had two ideas left. One is that Catalonia does not innovate. I suppose you will agree with me that two variables or two important parameters in this aspect, so they could be the universities, because they are the consequence, it is not direct, but they are the result, the formation of innovation, and also the creation of start-ups. Well, in the context in which we are, Catalan universities are clearly above, but clearly in the first position, like the country in the Spanish State. And second place, therefore, in the creation of start-ups is one of the leading European regions. In fact, the key question to your remarks, and perhaps also to those made by Congresswoman Romero, would be: who collects the tributes? ; this is the main data. 90_percent of the taxes paid by Catalans are collected by the Spanish State. Then, if you want, you can do a little drawing of a domino, which you've been reading, one side in vain more than another, but let's leave it. Obviously, if one of these dominoes doesn't fall, those that come later don't fall anymore. But the first piece of domino is made by the Spanish State, not by the Government of Catalonia. [[applause]] And that's what I'm saying... and that doesn't make me happy, to say it, because I would naturally like everyone, exactly all the taxes that Catalans pay the Generality's receipts. [[Sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time is running out.]] Well, I don't think I have enough time... [[Rialles.]] Then... In this Ple is already discussing the assumptions in a thorough and in depth – it seems to me that it is tomorrow – and, therefore, here it is not up to analyze it. Yes, I'd like to manifest a couple of questions. It is that these assumptions were directed to strengthen the welfare state of Catalonia. Which way? In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to strengthen, according to our opinion, the productive economy, training and the promotion of talent; two aspects of great correspondence and which are two essential foundations to develop the economy of the 21st century, consequently, to obtain resources for social policies. Well, Article 1 of the decree states that in a moment's time it will vote to try to validate it – and we hope it will be validated – there is a relationship of authorities of the financial needs that allow the generality and entities of the public sector, in different areas: in financing, in health care, in the environment, in science, and in other areas. In a very simplified way, it authorizes itself to make use of debt or to provide guarantees or guarantees to the Catalan Institute of Finance, in the medium-environment, to the Ens del Ter-Llobregat; in health care to the Consorci Hospitalari de Vic or to the construction of the Hospital Universitari Sant Joan de Reus, in the scientific – that they had previously stated– to the Scientific Park of Barcelona and to the Consorci Biomedic Research Park of Barcelona, and also to the Fira 2000, to the cooperatives, to the AGAUR and – certainly, Sirvent – to Circuits de Catalunya to guarantee the payment of contractual rights to organize the Grand Prize of Formula 1 for the year 2020. In 2, as has already been said, as the Vice-President has already commented, he refers to amending Article 73.1 of the text recast in the matter of Catalonia's waters. In conclusion, this is a necessary law and, I would like to say, it is essential because many entities and organisations in our country, which are related to many areas of our economy, have the necessary resources until we have the necessary resources to properly develop their tasks. Thank you, Vice President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mrs. Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.18.0	For allusions! [[Rialles.]] Press... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.19.0	No problem, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.20.0	Yeah, yeah? [[Rialles.]] Thank you. I wanted to say two things to Mr. Salvadó; one, a little respect for the women and men and those men who have held the presidency of the Generality: « a Montilla, no; President Montilla [[applause]] President Puigdemont, President Mas, President Torra: this is what you should do. And two: look, I can say a lot of things, and I can also say that I don't get strict, but I, strictly speaking, talked about 2013– 2013–, and 2013– barely weighs it on Republican Left – you extended the assumptions that 2012 were agreed by the People's Party and Convergence, the nationalist right that there is in this Parliament. So, you have memory and don't criticize what you did. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds, too, Mr. Saved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.22.0	Absolutely sorry if I haven't been right in referring to President Montilla, to whom I have enormous and absolute respect. Anyway, you've been talking about the last two years, Mrs. Romero, looking back at the record, and you've been talking about the last two years. So, they make memories. In any case, Mrs. Romero, as Lucas Ferro said before, pay attention to the PSOE, pay attention to his president and play the governing party and the corner's outings, when today he is positioned jointly with the CUP. It seems to me that your party's trajectory...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.23.0	Thank you, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.24.0	...it's not the one I'm getting back to. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.25.0	Pass the... [[Lucas Silvano Ferro Sole asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Iron. [[Pause.]] Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.26.0	Perfect. I believe that there are parliamentary groups from this chamber who believe that if the assumptions fall, they automatically call for elections, which surprise me. We prefer that there are assumptions and elections, because we understand that one week of elections should go ahead, because you are happy, you don't deserve a year more details, and because in the assumptions – and I say this for the sake of another parliamentary group – neither will there be at C-32, nor will there be the Hard Rock Cafe. I'm saying because they're showing up tomorrow, and it would be good if we all got together. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Rodriguez, thirty-second preceptius, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.28.0	Thank you. No, Mr President, I would also like to say that there are other parliamentary groups who think that the assumptions will be approved and immediately there will be elections. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.29.0	Lady Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.30.0	Yes, just to answer Mr Ferro and tell him that you know perfectly well that the assumptions are the full route of a government, it is the work of a government with numbers, and, therefore, today, despite not taking the picture, they are the partners of the C-32 government and the government of Hard Rock. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.31.0	Let's get to the vote. As you know, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the Decree and that the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. Let's get to the vote. [[Long break.]] Decree Law 2/2020_was validated by 62 votes in favour, 19 against and 47 abstentions. With the result of the vote and the validation, I'd like to ask the chamber if any parliamentary group wants to process this decree as Bill, right? So we give for validation the Decree of 2/2020. And we move to the next point of the order of the day... [[Catalonia Wine Law Project]] [[200-00002/12]] ... which is the debate and vote on the Opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food on the Catalonia Wine Law Project. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Lluïsa Llop has the first word, which she has been named the rapporteur of the Law. When you want, Congresswoman. [[Long break.]] Thank you, deputies and deputies, for coming out in respect of the silence of the hemisphere. Thank you. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.32.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... She used to say "advisers," no; agriculture advisor, deputies and deputies, very late. First of all, let me welcome everyone you have with us from this guest gallery. The representatives of the Union of Pagesos, representing Young Farmers and Ramaders of Catalonia, of the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Catalonia, of different denominations of origin, the Institute of Cava, the Catalan Wine Association, of the University Rovira and Virgili, people of the Department - especially, director of the Incavi -; representatives in general of the agricultural and wine world, very welcome to this session of the Parliament and the pleasure that you accompanied us in this approval of the Law of Viticulture. I begin with a few words as the rapporteur of this Law sincerely agrees with the rest of the speakers the work developed, the ease to work and agree, the will of consensus and the goal of all pleas to achieve a good law for the sector that allows it to move forward more and better. So, many thanks to Francisco Domínguez, to Óscar Ordeig, to Eduard Pujol, to Marc Parés, and I also want to thank, as it cannot be in any other way, the work that has accompanied us in all this processing, Miquel Palomares, as well as the manager, all the staff of the house and especially a thanks to the head of Institutional Relations of the Department, to Alba Balcells, to help in all the processing with the department. Thank you very much for your cooperation throughout this journey. We have a law that goes from the moon, a law that, as we said when we started it, began its processing in 2017 and, therefore, in the previous legislature and which was interrupted – like so many other things – by the application of Article 155 which, unlawfully, ceased our Government and our Parliament. That bill was set up for Councilwoman Meritxell Serrat, today unfairly in exile and for which I want to keep a very special record and recognize them the big pocket in front of the Agriculture Council, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food. [[Greetings.]] Today, Serret advises, and we fly home. As I said, today we are tanking a bill that in this legislature began a _second path admitted to transit on July 2018, which passed to the debate in totality in this plenary on November 2018. A debate to the totality where no item was presented to the totality and that, therefore, already wished a certain consensus of the different groups of the chamber with this text, and that it counted with all this processing in commission with the contribution of twenty-seen peers. For this reason, we would like to thank the College of Technical Engineering, Agricultural and Forestry Engineering of Catalonia, the College of Agricultural Engineering of Catalonia, the College of Enólegs and Enologologists of Catalonia, the Catalan Association of Enólegs, the Institute of Cava, the Catalan Institute of Wine and Life, the Catalan Wine Association of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University, the University of the University of the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University of the University of the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University,, the University, the University, the University, the University,,,,,, the University, the University, the University, the In fact, there have been all these contributions that have been made to us in the appearances that have entailed that the work of the deputies was reflected in papers and that, in the end, is present in a total of eighty-three papers. These considerations have made it possible for there to be a great deal of concerns about what to deal with, about discussing, as I said before, with a dialog, with a good deal, with a win over the party sound, to arrive at an entity, which has finally made more than 80_per_cent of the submissions still accepted or negotiated between the different groups, and which, moreover, various of these were in the same direction – as it could not otherwise be – given that they collected a good share of the contributions made by the different contributors. This makes today, today, only nine items remain alive for this debate that we are starting now in Parliament's plenary session. And that makes this law so much with a preliminary title with eight titles that include seventy-three articles, four additional provisions, a transitional provision, a derogation provision and five final provisions. Since the Republic Group, we understand that with this process we have succeeded in complimenting the task we have in charge of Members and Members, which we have in charge of Parliament, of improving and enriching the bill submitted to us by the Government of Catalonia. A task that was important, because this law needed to complete the objective that the sector had to incorporate all European legislation, a law that was more adapted to the current context of the wine sector, that helped it to face better the challenges posed by the future, to increase competitiveness, to the profitability of the sector, to the modernisation of the sector, to the innovation of exports, to ensure their quality by combining aspects such as the traceability of the product, such as the training and professional qualification of winegrowers and winegrowers. In fact, on the first day, when we started with this process, the Councilwoman expressed it in her words when she said that the object of this bill is no more than to deepen the quality guarantees that characterize Catalan wines and that is what has been tried on this question, to donate all the tools so that processors, producers, etc. can make every day wines of the highest quality with clear, concise and well-known standards for everyone. In any case, I leave for my second intervention the qualification, the most political appreciation of this law and step..., and I will leave this, the next intervention for the most political part of this intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the parliamentary groups will intervene, which keep their agendas reserved. And, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.34.0	Thank you, President. First of all, say hello to the Councilwoman, to the rest of the government and to the Members and to the small sector, who goes here to listen to what we are all about, and welcome you continue. Firstly, thanks to the rapporteur for the report, Lluïsa Llop, because she has made it very easy. Each may have its own view, but if we all want to be sure that we are looking for the right text, and it has made it easy. Therefore, many thanks and the rest of the MEPs, too. Well, done the salutation, this wine law is the consequence of the processing of a bill, which is obvious, but I want to congratulate us all, because there are few occasions for it. Since July 2017, which has been admitted to procedure, until today, which will be approved, it has been almost two years, two years of opinions, publications, allegations, reports, presentation, appearances, etc.. And this whole process requires your time. And it is that every time we see that there are fewer bills and more proposals of law, which are faster; the bills have a longer procedure, but with much more guarantees, and there are more proposals of law, which is a little faster, but with less guarantees. And we also see a certain abuse of decrees law, which should be preserved for situations of urgent and unpredictable need. And, for this very reason, the legislatures are designed to last four years, instead of what they last lately. Without broad and sufficient parliamentary support, it is almost a miracle that this bill has been completed; indeed, by the hair. So, congratulations to all of us for getting it. Arrived here, he wanted to say that the world of wine and wine is part of the agri-food sector and therefore participates in the same problems as the rest of the rural world: ageing of the population, depopulation, there is no generational relief... And it is that young people do not see it attractive to stay in an activity that has a certain instability, with the problem of prices of origin – which persists and which we are concerned about – with increasing production costs, because environmental measures are incorporated – with great pleasure, but these costs are incorporated – because of the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage – which yes, which is very good to raise the interprofessional minimum wage, but it would have to be appreciated how it affects the companies that are at the limit ; but this would already be another debate. So, I leave it here. To solve this, we need our Government to be a strong government, which can provide the Department of Agriculture with all the resources it needs. And this is the situation? Mrs. Jordà, do we have a government that's betting on this sector? In my opinion, no, but then I'll get back to this. With regard to this law. This wine law has three main objectives: the first would be the updating and codification in a single rule – because so far we had a dispersion of decrees, orders, regulations of the European Union and a law of 2002, totally outdated. The second objective would be legal coverage of everything that the previous law left out, such as the wine growing part of the vineyard, planting rights, authorizations, wine registration, varieties, etc.. And a third objective is, of course, to improve a previous law – which was that of 2002 – such as legally ordering the profits of origin, the PGIs, and also to improve the sanctioning regime in relation to breaches of winegrowers, winegrowers or merchants. In general it is a very technical law, with a strong component of updating and compiling regulations. And being a law that's right, it doesn't intend to fix the sector. We can't ask the elm for pears. This law is not going to fix all the problems in the sector. And, here, is where I want to make a reflection and, also, a self-criticism. Throughout the appearances, which have been quite, all the groups have been able to listen to what the designations of origin told us, the Federation of Cooperatives, the professional colleges, the university, the agricultural organizations, the Union of Pagesos, Jarc, Asaja, the Institut de Sant Isidre, the IRTA, the Incavi, the Institut del Suro, the Institut del Cava, the Catalan Wine Association – and I hope I have left myself to no one, but I sure have left myself to someone. And everyone has contributed something interesting to the law, with proposals for amendments, which have been evaluated, have been introduced. But many of the concerns that have been seen in these appearances had nothing to do with the law. There were shortcomings in the sector, problems in the sector, which this law will not be able to solve. It's not a magic wand, this law. And this is a clear symptom that this Parliament has been a little behind the world of wine, wine and everything that revolves around it, which represents more than 25,000 direct or indirect jobs in Catalonia. In spite of everything, things have been achieved. I am not going to explain the eighty-three amendments, but I am going to explain the most important thing. The figure of qualified technicians, oenologists and agronomists and agricultural technicians has been improved. I am only sorry that it has not been possible to introduce the presence of one of these technicians in the Council Counsellor de l'Incavi – which will be voted on separately, as a separate amendment. And I appreciate the almost pedagogical work of the schools in explaining to us the role that technicians have and that seems obvious, but, really, it is not usually registered in the legal texts. Another important second point that has been achieved is the introduction of a transitional period. I consider this important because when you delete a variety of the specification of a designation of origin, on paper it is decided very easy, but it is not easy to modify a crop that is precisely not ephemeral – that takes many years to get into production. And these adaptation periods are important so that producers can adapt the varieties to the designation of origin. IRTA has also been introduced as a reference in agri-food research. And, of course, it is also a benchmark in the wine, wine and market research sectors. And it was an injustice and a misconception that this law would not contemplate it that way. That is, my thanks also to the representatives of the IRTA, who have put this absence on the table and has been corrected. The introduction of cork stopper paper is also important. That piece that we throw away always, but that gives us a sign of identity and quality to our wines that would really be worth enhancing. And, indeed, this has been reflected in the law. And another of the great concepts that needed to be empowered was enoturism. Not only as a source of supplementary income for the sector, but as a very important tool in itself for promotion. We already know that wine is associated with sensations, and associate it with experiences: gastronomy, knowledge of landscape, trips...; reinforces the idea that wine not only drinks, but lives. Therefore, wine tourism is a very interesting element in promoting the sector. But as I said before, apart from this law, the wine and vineyard sector is concerned. There is concern about the generational relief, there is concern about the low prices at source, there is concern about the lack of control of wine that is not within the designations of origin – this possible unfair competition of wines that have controls and requirements, of wines that do not have them and can confuse the consumer – there is concern about the lack of resources of the department in agri-food inspection – in general, but in the wine sector, too. There has been talk of sanctioning files that are not resolved due to lack of inspection. If we increase the inspection function of the Incavi, this will get even worse. And that is what the law seeks: to increase the inspection function of the Incavi. Therefore, this law should be accompanied by more than good intentions. There is also concern in the IRTA about the lack of resources in agri-food research. All these concerns, we could have detected them if we had called the sector into the Committee on Agriculture more beforehand. I mean, I blame myself for not asking for all of you to appear, not with the excuse of this law, but long before, for having met you and put the problems on the table a little more beforehand. And we need to define the sector we want. For example, what model of designation of origin would be better for us? , if an atomization of many small DOs, or a few larger DOs? What trade goals are priority: to co-opt the proximity internal market or to go out forcefully to the external market, or to combine the two? , because strategies are not the same. In this sense, I am somewhat surprised by the almost total absence of the Prodeca; it is a tool that we have for the promotion and export of our agricultural, agri-food products, and, curiously, it has come out with little force in the law. And, in addition, there has been a transaction that has been received at the last moment in which collaboration with the Department of Enterprise is enhanced. I hope the Prodeca has a strong role here. But I want to go back to the role that the Government of the Generalitat plays in all of this. What responsibility does the department have for a particular sector, such as wine and wine? And we have to look at the budgets, which is the way to find out the true intentions of one government and the dedication it lends to one topic or another. In positive terms, we see that both the IRTA and the Prodeca have put up well with the budget, the cuts of a few years ago, have even increased slightly. Okay. But if we look at the Incavi, which has an important role in this law, it has not, by far, recovered the level of previous budgets. In 2020 we have 2.7_million_euros for the Incavi, and in 2011 we had 4.1. That is, if we intend to implement this law with a regulation, more inspection powers for the Incavi, and the budget is lower than in 2011, how are we going to do that? Catalonia needs a strong agricultural strategy and policies, and without a good budget we will be half-hearted. Of 339_million for the department compared to 500_million in 2011, agriculture is losing strength. And now I am not addressing Councillor Jordà, nor her councillor, but I am addressing the rest of the government, which, well, right now there is not much, but I am addressing the rest of the government : 1,2_per_cent, that is the importance that the agricultural and agri-food sector has for you; a 1.2_per_cent is the proportion of the budget that you dedicate to your councillor; a 1.2_per_cent is the effort that is worth the whole primary sector. And I do not want to end my intervention without calling on this Government, precisely, to devote more resources to the Department of Agriculture. Personally, I have been here for more than four years as a Member and I have heard many times about the rural world, which is strategic, which is country, a clau sector, « we have to fight against depopulation, empty Catalonia... But without investment and without budget..., I repeat again: 1,2_per_cent... And, finally, I want to make another appeal to the Government of the Generalitat. The opposition has behaved well and we have done our duties, and now the ball is on its roof: make a regulation that develops this law – do not be late because, if not, it will be outdated again. And analyze other autonomous communities that also have wine law, and so we will avoid repeating mistakes that others have made, and copy what does work for others. And above all, provide the law with sufficient budget, because otherwise, it will have served no purpose. So thank you very much, and my best wishes for the sector. And we have to think that behind a bottle of good wine there is always a pay, a cell and a chain of professionals who have led us to choose that particular bottle. And I want to think that all those people behind the bottle are making a good living, that they're going to keep doing what they do and that that work they do with our help and our recognition, and not despite what we do here, in politics, in Parliament. So good luck and good health. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, the Member of Parliament Óscar Ordeig has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.36.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselors... I was going to say, I'm very happy that there is the business advisor here, because I will talk...., I will do many business reflections and from the perspective of consumers, of internationalization, of exportation, as you know, that have also impregnated many of the appearances, many of the papers that we have presented, but it has had to go – I hope that I will come back. In any case, I believe it is important that we require the cooperation of the Department of Enterprise in the future of the wine sector. First of all, a thanks to all people in the sector: agricultural unions, cooperatives, universities – we are also very pleased with the participation of universities –, the IRTA, the Incavi, for all contributions, and to all people in the sector who are obviously hearing from us and from people in the Department of Agriculture. A thanksgiving to work, a thanksgiving to contributions, a recognition to work done for many and many years that Catalonia today is one of the world's leading producing, marketing and exporting regions. Therefore, this has to be a law for them, this has to be a law for the sector, this has to be a law for many areas that expect this to boost the economy of their territory. In the first place, they will allow me, before entering into the matter, to make a recognition and a support to the farmers and branches of the country who are preparing mobilizations and who are demanding solutions to the difficult crisis of food prices that our society has seen, a problem that has come to stay, that it is not strictly Catalan, and, therefore, what is happening in many European areas, and that it is asking us all to build a just society, a just economic sector. And, therefore, we must make it clear that there will be no country, there will be no territory, there will be no possible society without guaranteeing the rights of workers, as it cannot be, without guaranteeing the rights of food producers, and, more still, in a sector that does not stop growing, that does not stop billing, but that, on the other hand, each time has more unequal relations. And, therefore, we have to make decisions to try to donate, generate..., guarantee the rights to all agents in the food chain. Therefore, a grace to his work; a grace to the readers, managers, entities they compared; a very sincere grace to the spokesman. Unlike other times, which we have discussed, and very much, with the Council – without going any further than that, the other day, I believe, however, that when it comes to putting us in agreement, we have – they have agreed, they have agreed, they have negotiated, we have made a lot of debates, and therefore a very special thanks, first of all, to Lluïsa Llop; secondly, to Eduard Pujol, as to people who give recollection to the Government, a very sincere thanks. We're satisfied, we think it's moving forward, it's a step forward, it won't solve everything, but this is a step forward. And, also, obviously, to the rest of the companies: to the company Parés, Francisco Domínguez, the Hope Garcia and the National Sánchez, also. To the Department of Agriculture and the Cave, as we said, announce that we will withdraw the items number 28 and 40, okay? We take the 28th and the 40th out, because I no longer have any sense of keeping them; therefore, we ask that they pass. Well, let's get started on the subject. The point we're setting up with this law? So, man, as I said before, we believe that it has to be a balanced law, a reasonable law, a law that we don't think you have to change everything, that you have to strengthen and help that which is actually doing well and that you have to try to empower those elements with which we may not have just found good synergies. There is a lot of competence at the international level, at the national level, at the state level and, therefore, we must do well. We have competition in agriculture, but we are in a market, as in the past, global; a market in which there is strong competition, a European market. And obviously our wines... there are emerging markets in the world that we have to aspire to sell there, we have to aspire to market there and that, therefore, we have to see what potential consumers we are looking for, what product we have to present, what traceability we have to have our wines, our roots and, therefore, where we want to position ourselves. Therefore, it is obvious, recognized by everyone, the economic, territorial and historical background of the production of living in Catalonia, with more than two thousand years of history. We know that we have to adapt to European law; therefore, we do. We obviously are still betting – and so we have done in the law – for the designations of origin – I think it is a success factor that has worked – as well as for the paper of the Cave. With what other purposes? So, man, as I said, be an international referent in the production, marketing and sale of high quality wines. We have to bet on quality, we have to bet on innovation, we have to bet on trying to put research centres, universities, even all the great companies who produce wine online, so that we can all go to one at a time to improve our wines, our products. I think it was the past year, or the other, I don't remember now, that we were around 500_million euros in sales in the year of exports. And every year there is a significant increase in exports to foreign countries. Therefore, we believe that it is an orientation to the market, to export and to a quality product. It has already been said here: it is important for the territory to bet on the agri-food sector; it is important for the food sector to bet on the wine sector; it is important for all these if we want to fight against depopulation, if we want to bet on rural development. The wine sector, like the agrarian sector, affects a combination of countless economic sectors and, therefore, this is the model of a balanced, sustainable country that also bets on all its potentials that we need to build. Therefore, three last elements of objectives that we believe we can also address. With said, global market; with said, crisis of prices. We have also introduced some ideas, but I believe that this is a debate that we will need to do more deeply, but also the problem of the crisis of prices, of the crisis that we have experienced not long ago at the price of the race. This is a problem that can be extended to the rest, not all of us, but it is often the case for all food products and that it is a profound debate, that action is being taken at all levels and that it can work very closely, both from the European Union and from the Government of the State, as well as from the Agriculture Council. And, obviously, I also believe that from this debate it will also be necessary to think about what is happening with the big business groups that are betting for the food sector and that some of these, because we are on a global market, have also ceased to be Catalans. We need to see what the consequences are. What contributions have we made and why are we satisfied that practically all of them have been accepted? We said, there were seven items, of which, in the end, we withdrew them. We've made five transactions, the rest have been accepted and agreed. As I said, one, referring to research and innovation with IRTA and universities. Therefore, we believe that here it must be deepened in this line. A very important element, which we also transfer to the conjunct of the sector: we also need to bet on training, business training. Many times we start building the agricultural system or the agri-food sector from production and then we'll see what happens next. I believe that we also need to analyse what happens at the end of the chain with the consumer, the point of sale, with the entrepreneurial formation of all the elements involved in the total food chain in order to avoid, precisely, some of the problems we have at the level of production and crisis of prices. And, therefore, training, generational replete, policies of equality in the primary sector, but also, also, above all, taking into account the complexity of the sector and also that it is a business. The better of the food chain and the crisis of prices, as I said... Fem un incis: I believe that here there has been a lot of recourse, in the better of the food chain. We can do things here, but obviously we must also do things at the level of changing the law. This is the best we can do to give support to producers. The promotion of eco-friendly living, which has grown greatly and has great potential. Administrative simplification. Here we had a debate about the plane as we did, as we said. Anyone we talk to about the sector will say: "Many delays, many repeated delays. And if, in addition, an intervention with different administrations or different departments, duplicate of the papers to be presented. Therefore, in line with what the European Union also says, we are going to simplify. Promotion of the culture of vi, of the elaboration, of the traceability, of the history of the sector. Protection from peri-urban areas – here you could go a little connected with the Law of Agrarian Spaces. There are places where there is a lot of urban pressure so as to stop producing roots, and I think that we also need to guarantee these spaces that are around large metropolitan areas and that, in addition, they can be a space of proximity for such training, to make visits of the schools to know where the roots and production of the vine come from. Millions in labelling and packaging. Supporting exports to potentially consumer areas – this was done just at the end, huh? , with the collaboration of the different departments, the different entities. We all try, therefore, to point, as we say, at the best we can give support..., also to small producers who sometimes don't have the tools, how we can give support, how we can look for forms of collaboration, cooperation, export, agreement? Coordination with other autonomous communities that produce vines. It is so important to be aware of our skills, our responsibilities, as well as not to make policy contradictions with areas producing saws that are relatively close. It serves this for the rest of the autonomous communities, it also serves this for the rest of the territories of the European Union, which is the common market. An important issue, which connects to what Dominguez commented, is, man, to guarantee the infrastructure and the premise necessary to give support to the agricultural world and to guarantee its viability. Tell them recs, paths, technological infrastructure... we need a competitive territory, a territory with the necessary infrastructure. And this is what also indirectly, or directly, guarantees the viability of farms. And here it is also..., obviously we have already claimed it the other day – today it does not touch, but I say it –: it is to ensure that this 1 and a little more percent that we have of the total percentage of the assumption of the Government of the Generality..., man, the territory is so great and the skills of agriculture and food affect the hundred_percent of the citizens and the conjunct of the territory, we need more resources, more money to empower it. He also proposed and accepted a specific support program for mountain life. The climate change and the orográfic and climatic conditions of the mountain areas, we believe that this is what they recommend. Some initiatives have been made; we believe that there can be much deeper here. Also, as has been said, encouraging the suo tap, that many people do not know that it is not only more sustainable, it is not only a material of great quality, but also a product of proximity, because it is also..., Catalonia is one of the producing areas of suo in Europe. So, I think it's okay here too, the sector asked for it, and here we have incorporated it. In short, to finish, just say three concepts that we believe are vital, that are important, that... and that the law's modification has allowed it to change or improve. First of all, which is the most important – in politics sometimes it is not much door – that is to listen. To listen to the sector in appearances, to listen to what has worked, to listen to what has not worked, to listen to us among companies too, who is the opinion of one or the other, to listen to the Incavi, which also knows a lot, and to recognize, obviously, the work done. Second place, visit, as I said before: market visit, global visit, view of the vi market, international visit, visit of emerging markets, visit of European, national and state markets. And, obviously, attend to the great competence that exists at these times. And, lastly, as I have said and I repeat, but not least: the rural development of the producing areas depends in many cases precisely on this production, processing and marketing of the vine. They're an occupation engine, they're an opportunity engine, and also at these times I think we have every right and obligation to guarantee the rights in the commercial and economic relations between the food chain of the life. Well, apart from that, we clearly announced the vote in favour of the law. As I said, we are withdrawing the two items that were still alive and a thank you to the whole sector, to the department, to the Members and Members who have made it possible and, obviously, to the joint venture of society, which I believe today can say that it has taken a step forward in the agri-food sector and in the wine sector. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. In this first verse now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.38.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors, people from the sector who are with us here today with this law. Well, Catalonia is a land of wine and we are a land of wine, obviously for the orográfic and climatic characteristics of our territory, but at the same time it has also been there, it is and will be a key agent at the time of configuring our landscape; a key vector in the relationship between the natural environment and society, this society that with its activity has historically and geographically transformed our territory. And we think this law is important, it's important because this continues to feel that way. And from this institution we understand that we have the responsibility to legislate because the wine sector continues to be a strategic sector for our country. Certainly, it has been said before: it is a law that comes up late, that it is beginning to conceive in 2012, but that is why it does not stop being an important law and that is why we do not want to stop congratulating Councilwoman Jordan to be, in fact, the second law that she carries in this..., or that will be approved in this legislature and, therefore, we understand that it is important and we welcome it. The initial objective of the law..., we had much of the scope of legal certainty, to adapt the Catalan mark to the new European legislation and, indeed, the law does this, but we understand – and this was also a will of our parliamentary group – that the law ends up going beyond the simple adaptation of the rule to the new European mark. A law that, moreover, has been said, comes from a wide process of dialogue, listening, participation with the sector through different sectoral tables, the participation of the councillor of the Incavi and the number of comparisons we have had here in the inquiry. I would like to highlight a few questions of this law and then I will also make some of the points that our group has put forward. The first innovative element, say, of the law, is to say, that it enters or that it is bringing into the law all the wine regulation. And for us, that's what we think is relevant in the measure that with a specific chapter is visible the job that makes the page. And, therefore, we understand that it is important that the laws we make in this Parliament make visible to the people who protect, who work, who are proactive in our territory and, more concretely, the pagesia. Therefore, let's celebrate that through this law is put in value this pocket of our page. By the way, I see a lot of green ties today in the hemicicle, which we celebrate, right? It is also a matter, apart from symbolically showing our commitment to the agricultural world, to the page and to the right prices, to seek measures as well as to presuppositionally equip these assumptions that we are beginning to deal with with with enough resources, because we are effectively addressing the needs of this sector. According to what I would like to highlight from the law: this is also the law of the Cave; the Cave as competent authority to verify the compliment of the departure of conditions of the protected designations of origin and geographical indications, and also a law that gives the department, right? , or which enables the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food as the competent authority in inspection and control both wine and wine. We understand that this does not have self-management or self-organisation skills in the origin names, but ensures that the Administration is the one who is going to control it. And we also understand that it's a positive element, among other things, because this activity we're talking about, right? , has a direct impact on the uses of the soil, on the planning of the territory, and this is a common good, which is everyone's, and, therefore, we understand that the Administration is the one who has to play this paper for the general interest, for the common interest. And, therefore, let us celebrate, therefore, that the law also takes significant steps in this sense. I now enter the different items that we have submitted; obviously, we will not detail them, but in the general sense of these items. Our group submitted twenty papers to the bill, and the vast majority, the reality is that they have been accepted or traded. And here too, as it was said by other Members, right? I would therefore like to thank the good attitude of all the Members of Parliament, especially Mrs Lluïsa Llop, also Mr Eduard Pujol, Mr Domínguez, Mr Ordeig, with whom we have been able to work on the different forms, so to speak, very fruitful. By the way, I'd also like to put on a replete that gives me the pleasure of working with deputies and deputies who bring knowledge from the territories, wouldn't they? And, therefore, as their knowledge of their daily reality, so it also leads to better laws and that all of them... or at least my experience has been of a profound learning, also, through comparisons, in the process of elaboration of this law. Well, our exams, beyond some technical exams, right? , that they have to see with some questions that have already been commented on, like the paper of the IRTA, as the paper of qualified technicians, etc., I would like to group them into four large blocks. The first set of issues that we presented, and that were accepted, has to do with incorporating into this law a dimension of environmental sustainability that was practically non-existent in the initial project, right? They think that terms such as 'environmental sustainability' or 'climate change' do not appear in the original text, and we have wanted to make this contribution, accepted it, and with our ideas, therefore, we have placed environmental sustainability as one of the principles of the performance of the wine order and incorporated the climate change as a key vector to take into account not only in the order and development of the sector, but also in research and innovation and with everything that develops also..., the activity that develops the IRTA. According to the package we have presented, which we have presented: all these, a follow-up of more oriented discussions that this law has as its objective the better of the social and economic conditions of families, businesses and workers in the sector; this more social dimension of the law that we also wanted to incorporate. And in this sense I would like to talk about two questions. For a band, everything you have to do with the business model, and here we have managed to incorporate various references to the cooperative model as well as to the commercial enterprises that apostinate for social and environmental co-responsibility in the territory. We have managed to incorporate this into the law and, in fact, we have located – which was also one of the requests of the cooperative sector – two specific articles that value the importance of the cooperative fabric in this sector. For another band, in this more social dimension of the law – and here we haven't had so much luck – that's all it has to do with greater balance and transparency in commercial relations between the different operators of the food chain in the sector. This summer – it was also commented – we experienced a critical situation with the crisis of root prices, with a reduction of 30_percent of prices compared to previous campaigns, which put the future of many holdings in the Penedès in danger. In the world of the quarry, three large companies have the monopoly of demand, have 85_percent of the capacity to buy the raïm. And at the end of the day we saw how it went out to buy at 0,30_euros per kilo, when the cost of production is 0,40; therefore, under the cost of production. We believe that this is totally unacceptable and that we can act on these issues. It's true that we didn't get out very little, through this law. It is also true, as some previous Members have said, that with this law we will not solve everything, but we did want to incorporate some elements of struggle against the abuse of market position, to consider the sale to lose or to fix a minimum of three years' duration in the contracts of purchase between producers of roots and producers of vines. I'm sure we didn't get out, with all that. I also want to spoil the work of the caster, don't I? , in the legal advice in this matter. And that's why, so, we pull out of Emena 27, where we incorporated all these elements, we pull out the bulk of the Emena, because we understand, therefore, that there were competing issues, right? It was not in line with the current competition framework, which we regret is the way it is, but that is the reality. But we do maintain, in this item 27, that point, the point seven, we propose something that fits perfectly our competitive mark, and it's the next one, right? What we say at this point is, first, that "in the event of a conflict in commercial relations between the different operators of the sector the department will perform the function of mediation and arbitrators – therefore, the first element. Secondly, this function of mediation and arbitrators will be carried out in the framework of a wine table, representing the different operators of the sector, developed by regulation. This is what was asked, or one of the points that was asked, from the territory with the price crisis of the root we had. It is true that the department has created the table and is working. What we have proposed is that this is done for the law and, therefore, to provide... that it was not simply a specific short-term response to the situation we have experienced this summer, but that we have a legal mechanism created for the law. That's what we're proposing. We understand that this is what is also demanded from the territories, and that is why we keep alive this point seven of the Emena 27. It contains different sets of items. The third set of issues that we have presented are all those that we sought, therefore, that through this law is not only developed in instruments and mechanisms of order of the sector, but also in promotion of the sector, since its article 1, where we incorporated the element of encouragement of the sector, until its realization in different articles of the law. For example, in everything you have to do with the promotion of wine tourism, which has also been mentioned before, the culture of wine and other complementary activities to winemaking. Or all that has to do with the promotion of the international presence of wines processed and bottled in Catalonia and the special impulse of wines with a designation of origin or protected geographical indication that are bottled in the area of origin. And this is another element that we want to put on the table or put on the replenishment, which is all you have to see with the problem of bottling. It is true that Community legislation allows bottling out of the designations of origin, where wines are processed and produced. But we have to stand out, don't we? Therefore, the added value of the bottling in the source area is very high and the price of the root in the ampoule can be multiplied by two, by god or thirty. And so we understand that it's important that whoever produces this root in the territory where the root is produced, so I can be part of this added value and stay in the territory, because many times I walk away with bottling. In fact, I don't know if they know who the country of the world is – another of the things we learned in our appearances, right? – exporting more volume of vi. So it turns out that it's the United Kingdom, that they don't have any wine. So, the country that exports most is the country that is dedicated to buying and selling; buying, bottling and selling, right? But don't produce. And we understand that this reality we have to start changing it, and we don't go in that direction. We have incorporated into the law a series of articles, therefore, to encourage the dynamics to put in value bottling in the same territory. And finally – and I'm finished – the last block of items that we presented had to see with an attempt to give this photo a more holistic view than what the world of life actually represents. Because the world of life, therefore, is to cultivate the land, it is to produce roots, it is to elaborate the vine, it is to bottle it, it is to distribute it, but there are also many other elements linked to the world of life, there is a whole culture around the life from a gastronomic point of view, but also from a historical, geographical, landscape, environmental, social, economic point of view... In Catalonia there are very many families, and especially in some territories, that come from the world of life, and therefore it is a big sector. And that is why we understand that it is necessary to incorporate into this law elements, such as – before – enoturism, but also to link this law to different departments of the Administration, through inter-administrative collaboration, all those departments that we believe have competences not only in the field of agriculture and agricultural quality, but also in health, co-operativeism, environment, culture or tourism. I'm done. We're keeping Emena 57 alive, which is behind our reviews, on the composition of the councillor. We keep her alive not only... Here we have been able, we understand, therefore, to agree with which actors were to form part of this council advisor, which actually can be developed by regulation. So, far beyond ours – like the Ciutadans Group, I kept a similar thing alive, didn't I? – We have posed for the law other actors that at last, therefore, have not posed, but we do understand that it is interesting to make it known, the central point of this point that we want to maintain is because the law, in the current wording, that in the composition of this council is to seek the balanced representation of men and women. And what we proposed and maintained in this issue is not that it is "to seek a balanced representation of men and women, but that what we need to do is to ensure equal composition. And that's why, therefore, we keep this thought alive about the composition of the councillor. On our part, more than that. Thank you again for working with this piece of work, with the results we've achieved. We believe that with this law, we take a step forward. It is a law of the future, a law that the country needs, and therefore it is fully committed by our parliamentary group to this law, to the sector and to wine-growing. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and to fix their position, they have the word "parliamentary groups" and "sub-groups" that do not have reserved items. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.40.0	Good afternoon to all, Members, Members and all the people who have come to represent the sector. They know perfectly well all the parliamentary groups that the CUP has not prioritized the work on this law. Also, we recognize the work done and the enthusiasm with which they plant it. We, with the limitation we have of Members, must prioritise our pocket. And in this sense, as has been said, we understand and understand this law as a very technical law, an adaptation to wine and wine law as a result of the new communal organisation of the wine market. I therefore insist, as has already been said, that the law is the result of a need to adapt the various regulations to the legislative framework defined for the common organisation of the European Commission's markets, for which some questions have been raised on the table. On the one hand, the need to remove existing limitations for the creation of new plantations, which today are regulated by the states and the autonomous communities that have transferred the skills, based on the surface of conred vineyards and the reserve of existing planting rights, which has as its purpose to regulate the new plantations to ensure the maintenance of quality according to the standards defined by the DOs or the protected geographic indication. We understand that from then on the designations of origin and the protected geographical indication have total freedom to give to the nine plantations. Therefore, we could say that today... that a principle of liberalisation of the market of the vine applies, with the consequences that this could have. On the other hand, however, it is also important to say that we understand that this measure will facilitate the creation of new designations of origin and new IGPs, above all taking into account the future climate change scene, in which they already foresee, as the third report on climate change, which will have..., essential, in form..., as an empire–forgive – the transfer of the conreu from the coming to areas where there is currently no presence of this conreu. So we're also celebrating that we've incorporated papers that refer to climate change. The original text did not very much mention a question which is fundamental to the cultivation of wine, which is temperature, climate, climatic conditions, which affect the conreu in a very clear way. For what it does to the lifting of existing limitations in relation to oenological practices, we believe that it could cause us to start testing with new varieties of wines. Today there are very strict limitations and some DOs are counters to the introduction of new varieties or to recognize existing varieties, but they are not recognizable to the catalog of DOs. The lifting of this limitation could be positive if it agrees, as has been said, with the sector. We also want to highlight a question that is raised in Chapter 1, the fourth article, in the apartment and, that has already been discussed, and that we believe that it is the fundamental question that we have to put on the table today, that we do not expect this to solve the great challenges of the sector. It has already been said and we insist: the main one, the protection of the sector, of its workers and workers. This article we talk about improving the social and economic conditions of families, businesses and workers in the wine sector. We consider that, when we talk about economic social improvements, we can propose measures; in this sense, we find that part of the law is missing where it is proposed to regulate commercial relations and in which it is not possible, among others, to buy copper under your cost price. Therefore, we think that we need to bet to ensure the sector's viability by making a reassessment of the pages' pocket, which many times – as I have said – do not get a fair price. Moreover, beyond this adaptation to the rules of the European marc, we believe that a deeper analysis of the sector should be carried out. Its current state, its prospects for the future, above all taking into account, we insist, the consequences of the climate change. I end up with a question, which has made me think of the deputy of Catalonia in Comú Pode, which – I insist, you know perfectly well, that we have had very little activity in this committee – is a great thing that does not include it – and I would encourage them to rectify it in the time that remains for us – the obligation that the bodies that contemplate this law will continue to partner. Not just because you say the same law of equality between men and women, but because we have just approved an equality plan in the Parliament of Catalonia that says that in legislation it is essential to mark issues like these. Many other laws that we have approved – and I finish, President – incorporate it. Therefore, I would urge – if they do not find it a dare – to incorporate and approve this idea, that there is not a balance, but that there is a real parity in all the organs contemplated by this law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the turn of MP Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.42.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputy, councillor, public attending this session today... in the first term, the previa, right? Give thanks. Give thanks to all the participants, from the unions to the Sant Isidre Institute, Asaja, IRTA, Institut del Cava..., go, to all the people who appeared to the ponència, to the rapporteur, to the casters, in other words, to all the work and all the good work done with this Wine Law. You know, I repeat it every time I come here: the Parliamentary Subgroup we have to balance the desires of the most participation with the availability and scarce resources, in human terms, that we have in the same subgroup, right? And that's why he always apologizes, because it's true that we'd like to be more present than we've been. But, despite that, here we are. We made an observation, we made a study about the law. We thought that in the end it was important that this one came in, and it might have been a little dough, didn't it? What much of our history is connected and has as witnesses, and even as a conductor, it is a reality, but sometimes we forget that when we talk about living, we also talk about culture, landscape, ecology, traditions, friends, dialogue, respect, economy and opportunities, right? This came to you, among other things, because we have a real and positive context of Catalan wines, and we export a 75_per_cent of our production. The volume of litres we export each time is better. We have twelve DOs – of origin –, one of shared. We have co-operatives, the sector of winemakers, processors, producers, winegrowers, with a compromise, with an expert and with good working skills, who have given us the international recognition of our products. And this requires protecting them, ensuring their quality, strengthening the opportunities of the agri-food sector – which, now that I'm looking at the councillor, I'm always giving her the benefit of ‘not being brought for ideological harm: cooperatives yes, but also the technical agri-food sector. And it is true that the sector demanded protection and regulation to maintain this quality and international prestige and competitiveness in the market, a market that is global, that has already been said here. The sector is obviously, frankly, over-regulated and, sometimes, we tend to try to bring our simplifying expertise, in terms of legal marks, because they always leave more scope, more opportunities to the sector, which already has an impulse, in itself, important. That said, the origin of this..., what motivates this Law is an adaptation of a regulation and two delegated regulations of the European Union. One that complements... And with this Law is complemented by the legal viticultural void of a regulation of Fa – attention – divided years, and that we believe it is positive to fill this void. And, then, the acclaim of the PGIs and the DOs, which we also believe is positive. We also believe that it is in this Law the strengthening of the control of traceability, quality, wine tourism, the promotion of the quality of the cellar with specific requirements for its root colitis, the cataleg of varieties, the wine-growing control area, the recognized technological transfers, the protection of the suro – which, by the way, of the suro, world producers are Spain and Portugal, the main producers... But it's true that we still have some doubts. About what? Is the sector of the vi català the same problems as that of Castella - La Manxa, that of La Rioja or that of Ribera... or that of Castella and Lleó - of the Ribera del Duero or Castella? We think so. And sometimes we think that a segmental hyperregulation plus the market and doesn't give opportunities or a lot of effort. We believe that the mandatory hijacking is still a problem. Inspections, the sanctions regime, I don't know if they will harm the sector's own positive synergies. But, obviously, the law was necessary. We're here. Our wines, quiet wines, squid wines, needle wines, sweet wines can have an opportunity with a much clearer regulation. This is an opportunity. He will advise, after we approve this law, because they already see that all groups will support it, I would ask one thing: that I do not keep it in calaix, that if you have it in mind, better, because you have to deploy the regulation that makes it effective and that all the contents that are positive can have its effect on the sector, which is more demanding and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, you have the word MP Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.44.0	Thank you, President. As I said in the first intervention, today we have a very long parliamentary procedure with a law that we understand, from the Republican Group, necessary for the wine sector. An important sector in our home – strategic, I would say – and one of the engines of the Catalan economy. We have a different country geographically and climateally, making us enjoy twelve different designations of origin that supply approximately fifty-two thousand hectares and give wines with personality, adapted to the land and differentiated between them. You come to bring within each ampoule the taste of your territory. A sector, as I say, fit for our economy, where 45_percent of Catalan wines and more than 65_percent of the cava are exported. And to this sector a law with a main objective, to replace the obsolete and current Law 15/2002, and to put up with the wine regulations. This law improves the previous aspects as adaptation to the new European standards, which has been in place since 2002, as before. These are better aspects of how to incorporate issues that we already have regulated by decree or by regulation and to give them law rank, the band to make disappear the legal insecurity that could be given by having normative differences. And this law also incorporates spaces where legal or better openings could have been found, such as, for example, despite the fact that the previous law was called wine, the truth is that it did not regulate wine aspects. This law incorporates various aspects or novelties that seem significant to us, and that the companies that have preceded me have gone into essence, such as plantation authorities; the creation of a catalogue of varieties and give them legal status to the Catalonia wine register; the clarification of the competitions, both of the Department and of the Incavi; it regulates the system of protection of the origin of quality wines adapting it to European regulations, etc. And as my colleagues have also said, in the parliamentary procedure in committee, we have been able to deepen into many aspects, thanks to the contribution of our colleagues, and which have allowed us to incorporate figures such as that of agricultural engineering or agricultural engineering; the import of the suro tap; mountain agriculture; incorporate collaboration with the IRTA; aspects such as the element of co-operativeism or the need for adaptation to climate change; sustainability, and, as it cannot otherwise be, before the race price crisis, especially for quarry, incorporating the creation of mechanisms to enhance transparency in the price of sale of the race by producers, with the objective of avoiding the sale below the price. Therefore, an important work, an ingenious work, a work that has incorporated a great deal of these appearances that we have had. For what you do to the items that remain alive..., and as Mr Ordeig has already explained, of which you were still alive, we still seemed to share the need to improve the coordination of the different departments and in the public sector in the vie sector for the best of the export incentive; we only needed to find a proper wording, and at the end we found it. Mr. Dominguez, the Prodeca is not missing because we understand that in the legislative technique it is better not to mention a concrete body that can then disappear, and that is why there is not specifically this name, but we understand that the wording that has been found today is correct. We also appreciate the withdrawal of the two items which were still alive from the Socialist Group. For what he does to the remaining Ciutan wines, so let us say that we cannot allow qualified farm wines to require a maximum yield expressed in kilos and hectolitres per hectare– as at least a 15_per_cent lower than normal yield–, we understand that this was not to be withdrawn when dealing with a farm..., of qualified farm wines. In the same way that we disagreed neither with the message presented by Ciutadans nor, in this case, common, that they were sufficiently assembled, in the case of the composition of the councillor. And it is not a problem to incorporate one or the other, or to incorporate bet or not bet; the thought, to ask bet band, demanded to incorporate a series of representatives to the council of the Incave that we understood to be done for a later regulation. We've all seen what it takes to process a law and, therefore, to put on a councillor a series of members was to complicate very much the life of this councillor if he ever needs to change his representatives. In the same way, you know that we share the background of the issues that we have not been able to accept and that remain alive on the part of the commons, but as you have explained, legal and regulatory issues make it difficult to adapt them to this law. And the same on the subject of mediation and arbitration, because we understand that it is a table that needs to be fast, flexible and agile, as it was, as the counselor did in this case. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm going, President. And so, we don't want to incorporate it into a legal thing, but we just want it to be a quick and adaptable tool in time. Finally, I can only thank the pages and the pages, the winegrowers and the winegrowers who estimate the land and who thank you for their work, day after day, they keep the territory for us all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.45.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.46.0	... more than the wealth they generate – I finish, President. And the best thing, we understand, is to lay the foundations so that they can live with dignity, and in a relaxed way, of their work, producers, processors and bottlers, thanks to a quality product recognized for consumers. You'll always find the Republican Group at your side. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.48.0	Well; president, councillor Jordan, councillor, professionals of the wine sector and you arrived at the country's rearrests, thanks for being here, thanks for being at your home. MPs and MPs, we already have her here – we already have her here. Finally, the Parliament can approve the law of the vineyard and the vine, which, as you can imagine – coming as I win, feeling like a penedès sock – makes me a special illusion. We had a very clear task and we did it, and we did it right. To update the law in force, based, basically, on the obligations defined for Europe. Europe is our playground, sometimes with a way of doing that we can live as the strict mass or little permeable to our particularities or needs. But Europe is a great ally, it is a great umbrella that when it rains, it opens up, protects and helps us. This law makes us more competitive in the context of Europe and, at the same time, gives us more legal certainty. We have also taken advantage of this legal and indefatigable adequacy to open doors and windows that some of us are already marking, even though without deploying them, it is true, in detail, as we are now talking about climate change, weather or landscape. It has been a period – and has been explained – of little sound and a very good dose of generosity on the part of all. This is a law of all, of all that we've been involved in. Consensus has involved parliamentary groups involving different actors in the sector, up to eight different participants, often with very different interests and points of view. Everyone has given up – the wise – everyone has been able to give up the cent_per_cent of their own model, but at times everyone has exposed their tiny, their red lines and I want to think – and I want to think – that we have not stunned a few, of red lines. So we didn't get out. Is this the law that will solve everything? No, no, This one doesn't have a magic stick, unfortunately. We know that the coming and the seeing deserve a law that incorporates us changes that accompany you into a new environment, we know. But if that's true, it's also the law that we approve is necessary and unstoppable. This is a sector that asks us about eleven designations of origin, plus that of the quarry. But it's a sector that, from now on, will always have to be interpreted taking into account one before and one after, that of the summer of 2019, when a calfred called the Penedès. The crisis caused by the fall of the prices of the region raises doubts and questions that can be placed in very concrete regions, it is true, but it is a demand or not for a global reflection that involves the whole sector. We think that the "crisis" has always been connected with the por, also with the change and the change, with the review of the guests, with new ways of doing things, new demands and, in the capdavall, attention for the possibility of creating and taking advantage of new opportunities. That's why the law we have in front of us is a starting point, not the final stage. From now on we must conjure ourselves up to draw up a new law, which will also be made out of consensus, because, at the moment, life is work, it is prospered, it is people, it is territory and it is future. Now, if these last few months the consensus has been about to settle the minimums and not to keep quiet – we can't keep quiet – now the new law, the future law when it comes, must be built from the consensus, but from the consensus of ambition. The ambition of the people of the coming and living forces us to read the moment and the moments that will come. We need to do a rigorous analysis and fine-tune, fine-tuning in the objectives, in the strategies, in the tools, in the attitudes, in knowing where we need to place the list of the quality of the environmental balance, of the balance between control and creative freedom, control, but, in the balance, in the investigation, the adequacy to new ways of producing, developing or selling. But I don't want to end up without sharing a second thought. We have to make assumptions and laws, we have to aim for a modern country, ahead of us, we have to do it. Also when we talk about pagesia and the industry that surrounds it, hundred-year-old warehouses and those that have just taken off. We need to recognize ourselves in the transformative soul that defines us as society. They were always heres of Prat of the Riba's transformative will, but we were also heres– and here he wanted to arrive, before the absence of Constellera Serret – we are also hereses of those who seek truth, progress and justice. We must continue to denounce the exceptionality we live in. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, business leaders and deep-seated pages of any land in this country, democracy requires us to maintain our denunciation and to be strong in resilience, resilience, strength and courage. Politically – and I finish, President – we have to make many of our virtues of the vineyard, of the variety you want, of the sort you want, that after the resistance in the winter months, of grey to the cell and of sad colors to the vineyards, recovers the green color in the spring and gives fruit to the summer. This is a direct reflection to which the economic activity of justice and democracy is disconnected; without democracy, there has been no progress, in place, nor in the world of the vine and the vine. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. As the Agriculture Councillor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food has asked us for a round of thanks, we will give her the word. He'll advise when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.50.0	Thank you very much, President. I'll try to be brief, as you ask. Actually, I don't mean to, not much less, open the back. So alone, yes, make a few graces of rigour, as it cannot be otherwise, and if they allow me also, well, a contextualization of the sector and also a few small reptes. But, all of this, very diligently. Thank you, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen, deputies, representatives, timeless; I do not greet you all because you have already been greeted many times, thank you very much for being here, company of the Department, director of the Cave that also accompanied us, members of the ponència, very late at all. Today is an important day and it has also been said repeatedly, but let me also put this value on it. It's a big day for us, because it's important because this room gives green light to the Vineyard Law Project. You're important. It's a long demand, a wide demand of the sector, which is ultimately real. A process that has passed multiple interbanks, one of them, the most known or most important – say –, the application of Article 155, which obviously ended with the law's work at that time and sent it another time to the beginning of the process in this legislature that we find ourselves at these times. A law that cheats a lot when it comes, too, has been said, and that it is by responsibility of this country, it should already be approved, but as I say it was with many misfortunes. Either way, we're here. We are here, and we are here with the work done, with the work done – that is to say – well done, a piece of legislation, therefore, of this joint work, which today has been widely manifested, of the most representative organizations of the sector and also of the parliamentary groups. That is why I would like to thank all the members of the delegation very warmly and sincerely: Francisco Domínguez, Óscar Ordeig, Marc Parés, Eduard Pujol and, obviously, also the rapporteur, Lluïsa Llop. This great family – let me just say this today – this great family of the Committee on Agriculture – and what I am saying with all my heart – as in all the families, do not just – say – wait for the Nadal to fall apart, sometimes happens, when there is a Commission of Presuppositions or things like that, but in any case and ultimately, a family that fights and fights and has clear that this sector is essential for the country and that must continue to fight. Also a thank you to the reader, to Mr Palomares, because as I understand and have been told – they have made me arrive very diligently – he has done a very good job and has been able to preserve the consensus that already exists, but he has been able to preserve it, which is never known, around the text with the conjunction of the sector. And to the Alba – obviously, the Alba Balcells – which is always there. A collaboration that we hope will follow the tasks, as was also said, of development and subsequent implementation, huh? A thank you, too, yes, very sincere, as it cannot be, otherwise, to all the people in the sector who have actively participated and who have done so from the beginning, making allegations, and then, therefore, also participating in the appearances, huh? Among all of us, we've accompanied each other, and among all of us, I mean, we've ended up folded. Because a sector that fights like the winemaker and also does pinya when it comes to collaborating, so also when it comes to legislative issues, if it's able to pull forward, it all goes in the right direction. A record and a thank you, also deep and very big, for the Constellera Serret, because every step that we take is that she had already begun it. So many thanks, Meritxell. [[Greetings.]] A situation, a very fast point of where you are in the sector, because I think it's worth doing, very fast and very telegraphic. It is a key sector of the country – it has been said this late, too –; in Catalonia, at these times, we have fifty_ thousand hectares of vinya surface, thirty_percent of which is ecologic. We have more than eight hundred cells, we have more than eight hundred winegrowers and winegrowers. The winemaking industry computes almost five thousand workers, but the total of the sector occupies almost twenty-i-sis_ thousand workers, eh? You're in the winery, you're in the cell or you're in the service sector. The year 2018 was commercialized 109_million ampoules of peaceful living and 244_million ampoules of cava, which is not short. We export to one hundred and forty countries of the world; the most important, the most important markets: United Kingdom, Germany, United States. A very important industry, in short. A sector with a great diversity of viticultures – it was also said, huh? –: twelve designations of origin, enterprises with different dimensions. And a regulation that we approve today that it must also be useful for all this conjunction, which is rich and also diverse. A sector that has to bet clearly on quality and added value, and that, as I said before, this new text improves regulation, as has been said, and the current situation. And, in short, viticulture is essential in many regions, especially in the drylands. That's key for us, too, and I want to make it an element, huh? The coming – and some Member has said – is, in particular, a few conreos that make it possible – no more, eh? – but he is one of those who can and can generate activity and life in the territory. Many comarques, some comarques from our country, thanks to the winery today they continue to fight, thanks to the winery, huh? When we talk about fighting depopulation, we also talk about making viable sectors, obviously, like what we are dealing with today. And that's very important. To put into value the system of DOs, which employ more than 90_percent of the root that is produced in Catalonia, because DOs..., and the root that is produced in Catalonia, 90_percent of which is taught in DOs, is close, is a guarantee of origin, is quality – that the law puts it into reality – is innovation, is, in short, democratic participation in the decisions and strategies of the sector. And that's got to make us stronger, that's got to take us even more. I'm done, huh? , President. We have many reptes in this sector, we have many reptes in this sector. Sustainability – it has been mentioned – is one of the first challenges we have, and the dignity of those working in the sector, too, that today has obviously also become a replete. For this reason, a server and the team, from the first day, we have taken up this problem, a problem that is not limited only to the problems of prices, to the liquidations of sweet fruit, which also – which also – and in a very and very pronounced way – in other sectors as well. In the vineyard, obviously, too. That is why, I say, we have taken the problem since the first day with structural measures in the medium and long term, on the side, obviously, of the sector, but also with short-term measures. We are already on the way to the Third Cava Summit to help structure the offer better and work, so folded and together with all the trunks of the value chain, as, I repeat, it cannot be otherwise, because the next campaign is – which costs little, say – better than the previous one. And little more. I'd say a lot more, wouldn't I? But I see that... I don't know, I feel soroll, for the right, for the left. [[Widow's remorse.]] A little pressure. Res, just..., yes... let me say that now it's also time to approach the future...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.51.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.52.0	...the band to deploy, obviously, this law. The reptes are so many. Fears aren't just too many, they're complex. The current architecture and organization of the DOs joint is an important issue. The coexistence between them, also the interprofessionals. And just the regular deployment of this law can allow us to give answers to some, not all, of these challenges that we have. And still folded, too, let me say that, precisely, as we consolidate and let this rule be updated, we have also put on the march a symposium, which is the Vins Vients Symposium, with the participation of the whole sector to establish a strategic plan with an already wider look towards 2030. And now, nothing more. Many thanks to everyone, many thanks to everyone for making possible a law that will help us, of course, like the country. Thank you for accompanying us and strengthening our capabilities. Today, let me say this, in order to strengthen the quality of this large sector, which is the Catalan wine sector. Thank you very much, and forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. We called for a vote. [[Pause.]] Well, as Mr Ordeig has said, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar has withdrawn its agendas, agendas 28 and 40, concretely. Therefore, we will not vote for them. We'll vote on the rest of the reserved items. And we begin by voting on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which are 35 and 56. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 36 votes to 77, with 15 abstentions. We are now voting on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, which are 5, 20, 57, and the part of the 27 that remains alive. What is actually seen in Article 18 septies, yes? We vote for the opinions of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú-Podem. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 13 votes to 76, with 39 abstentions. We are voting now on the transactional issue of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar on the issue number 63. The vote begins. This item was adopted by 88 votes to 40. And finally we vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The text of the opinion was adopted by 124 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. So, the Catalonia Wine Law Project has been approved. [[Perlongats applause.]] Thank you. [[Question to the Government on territorial cohesion]] [[300-00232/12]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the territorial cohesion presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. When you want, Congresswoman. [[Widow's remorse.]] When I can, the sooner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.54.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.55.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.56.0	MPs and MPs, today we come to talk about territorial cohesion. Mrs Escarp, from my group, asked a few weeks about public services in the rural world and said, at first, that we had put on the table concepts such as rurality, "envelling, "population, "primary care, "equity, "health and proximity, and that all of them were related. Today, obviously, we will not focus on the area of salvation, which is one of the aspects that affects territorial and social cohesion, but we will refer to some of those aspects of which she spoke: depopulation, ageing, equity, because all these concepts are at the time of speaking of territorial cohesion. We can understand territorial cohesion as the objective of achieving equal opportunities for all people in a territory so that they can develop their personal project with the same assurance of success, whichever is the place where they have lived and where they live or the place they have sorted to live. The expectation that people have respect for this possibility of living in full in a certain right of our country is definitive because they are left in this right or in Marx, looking for other territories where they are easier to develop an economic activity, find work, access quality public services or, finally, move around. The march of people living in the rural world to the city is a global phenomenon that already affects a good part of the planet and Catalonia is no exception. In the last two decades, the population of the municipalities of less than a thousand inhabitants has fallen considerably, approximately 25_per_cent. Small municipalities have moved from concentrating 4_percent of the population in the year 2000, to 3.1 per cent in the year 2018. The breakdowns during the crisis have made the situation of small towns, the vast majority of them enveloped. This fact is made worse by the low birth rate; in fact, I can recommend them - here is an article from today's Diari de Tarragona, entitled "The Inner Tarragona runs out of children; and, in fact, it puts data and poses very graphically in front of the fact that the birth rate drops to a good part of the municipalities of the Tarragona districts: 110 out of 184 municipalities have had fewer births in the last few years. Therefore, a really hard fact that makes it even more difficult with the cry of the young man who has to go outside to study and who ends up not returning a few finished studies, because they do not see in their place of origin the possibility of finding a job in which they can develop their acquaintances. Therefore, a difficult situation to face. If we look at the reality in Catalonia and analyze the population statistics, we see clearly who are the areas that are losing the population. Thus, if we compare the year 2015 with 2019, we see that there are two areas that lose population: on one side the Lands of the Ebro, which go from 181,136 inhabitants to 178,458, and the High Pirinius and Aran, which go from 72,448 to 71,817 inhabitants. And that's at a time when Catalonia, in general, has a population of almost 195,000 people. But they don't just lose people in these areas; other parts of the interior of Catalonia also lose them. For example the Barberà Conca, the Priorat, the Garrigues, the Garrotxa, the Ripollès or the Noguera. Empty Catalonia is one of the main challenges that we must tackle with strength and urgency in order to combat territorial injustice and lack of opportunity. Given this situation of population loss, the question, counsel, that we should do to them is what the government intends to do with this issue? What are the actions that the government, which we assume is aware of this situation, wants to carry out? And we already recognize that it seems a little strange to ask about these issues, that they are at the end of public policies of medium and wide resorted, not of short, when President Torra announced to us that he intended to call elections after approval of the assumptions and, therefore, this government will not be the one to implement these actions. But we didn't want to give up this question because we think the situation is hard enough to set it up and above all because we would like to know how the possible actions that will be undertaken to give a solution to the democratic, economic and social challenges that some areas of Catalonia have with the project of assumptions for 2020 that they have just presented to us. They must agree with us that the objective of territorial cohesion cannot be achieved if the Government does not put in place instruments because those territories with major difficulties have fair access to services and equipment. And the draft assumptions that have been presented to us by 2020, in our view, does not guarantee it. In fact, the two territorial areas particularly affected by the population loss are at the time of the worst presuppositional treatment. The Lands of the Ebre have, respect to 2010, an 80_per_cent less investments of the Government of the Generality and the scope of the High Pirinius and Aran, a 30_per_cent less. But other areas with difficult problems also suffer from presuppositional maltreatment. For example, the Tarragona Camp districts, partly also affected by the population loss, which lowers them by 68_per_cent the investments by the government. But we don't just have to take into account the population loss data of the last few years when we talk about territorial cohesion. We must also take account of economic data, the situation of the different territories respect..., because here we understand that the government must also be involved, foresee crisis situations, provide the tools to avoid them and, in case it has occurred, reverse its consequences. And here let me focus on the Lands of Ponent, where there are currently confluences that can lead to a difficult economic and social crisis from which it is very difficult to get out. Their economy, based on agriculture, is in a critical situation. And before that what does the government plan to do? So look, the presupposition project for this year of the Department of Agriculture – the one that most affects, therefore, the Lands of Ponent – is the worst presupposition of the last two years. The heading for this department does not take into account the territory or the demographic challenge facing it or the urgent need for fair prices for the producers. But the question is that these problems and emergencies have not arisen now in a sudden way or in the last three years, since the last premise approved. It has been a long time since warning of the severe consequences of the government's disinversion and inaction. While they promise tools and solutions to farmers and rowers who never arrive, it's certain that the agriculture budget only accounts for 1_percent of the total and is well over 500_million in 2010. It consolidates a 80_per_cent relay in regadius and paths, eliminates the Foundation of the Rural Món and reduces in a 25_per_cent the presupposition of the Technological Forestal Centre. But not only that, but at the level of investments, the Lands of Ponent have the saddest honor of being the subject in which the reversal of this government lowers: 81_per_cent respects 2010. It is very difficult to think that the situation of the Lands of Ponent can be reversed if the Government of the Generalitat does not take a decisive action in this sense and if there has been no more decision to allocate resources to it, which now we do not see. We are talking, therefore, about the image of the empty Catalonia, the one that loses population and on which to act urgently in order to rebalance the country territorially. But we cannot fail to refer to those parts of the country that do not lose people, years in contrast, in Guanyen, but that do so in a little way or people planned, which causes tensions of social character, urbanism and mobility, and that can end up collapsing these territories. And we're not just talking about metropolity, which obviously we also have to take into account. We are referring to the areas that are populated by this metropolis and that seek opportunities in more or less own territories, but that at times these territories do not have the public services dimensioned to make them face it. This is the case, for example, of the Baix Penedès, which in a short time has rejected a lot of people and that some of its municipalities see overflowing. A region with one of the highest tourist taxes in Catalonia, more than 17_per_cent. And, before that, again, the draft assumptions that they have submitted do not give solutions. At Baix Penedès, the Government's investments have dropped a 89_per_cent compared to 2010 and a 62_per_cent respect the last premise approved in 2017. How can the situation be reversed, if the investments needed to create opportunities are not carried out, to make the territories attractive so that companies can invest and create jobs? Definitely, territorial cohesion and democratic balance is a pending assignment to Catalonia and the Project of Presuppositions for 2020 does not present the grade enough to pass the exam. As if the government were able to reverse the tendencies that present certain territories of Catalonia. As far as I am concerned, if I may be allowed to take the photograph from the country, so as to apply concrete actions there, to strengthen public services, infrastructure, but also to give recollection to the assemblies that need it, that is, because they are overwhelmed by population increases in a short time or because they have no resources to fight against the loss of population. We need a government that invests in empty Catalonia, advises, puts in place the necessary resources, not only to ensure that it does not remain empty, but to create conditions for those people who want and can follow it to do so, or for those who decide to go to it to do so on conditions. We need a government that governments and that you do for all of Catalonia and for all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question has the word, on behalf of the Government, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó. Before, however, they would like to announce that the two interpellations following this one, both the interpellation group and the government have granted to postpone them for saying. Therefore, after this question we will finish the plenary here and continue to say, if there is no inconvenience on the part of the Members and Members in altering the order of the day. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Thank you, then. He'll advise when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.58.0	Thank you, President. Member, Members, I would like to start my intervention in a direct and clear way. Miri, the priority of this government is that Catalonia is a country of opportunity, regardless of the territory where it is nexi or where it is visqui. And we have no doubt that precisely to guarantee this equal opportunity, so territorial cohesion is not a key element. In fact, the struggle against depopulation – I have heard it say several times – against population aging, guaranteeing equal opportunities are the priorities of this Government, and the public policies that we precisely aim at this cohesion must be designed – we understand – and implementing on the basis of three principles such as transversality, that is, from all the departments of the Government; bilaterality, talking about you with the territory, and singularity, which takes into account all the realities and plurality of our country. And, in fact, like the Government, the public policies that we owe to term, but also the public policies that we have presented in the Bill of Presumables Project, as well as other public policies that we are beginning to plan, work to achieve precisely this challenge taking into account these three principles that I have just outlined. During my intervention I will try to take a rest from many of these policies, because, as I said, territorial cohesion is a priority in which this government works in its entirety, in its conjunction. And, moreover, from the Department of the Presidency, we carry out and coordinate different programs, many of them cross-cutting and inter-departmental, which have a direct involvement in the cohesion policy of our territory. And what exactly is this territorial policy that we are ending? I will begin by setting out examples of policies that are already being completed by the Government. And I start, for example, by talking about programmes that are appropriate to my department, in concrete terms, to the Department of Local Administration. Because I don't want to put in value the recovery of the PUOSC, with a line of financing, in addition, specific for those gatherings, for those decentralized municipal entities and for those local councils that have clusters of inhabitants of less than five thousand. And following this strategy of development and territorial dynamism, they also know that we have begun to set aside the programme "A country of opportunity, a living country, in coordination with the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation". And, as you know, "Living country, country of opportunity is a program that has gone from being a novelty to being a demand for the same territory. And I think this is one of the best indicators that we're on the right track, that it's starting to be an important demand on the part of the territory. But, as I said, and following the principle of cross-cutting, there are also policies from all government departments that are already due in term and that have a specific impact on territorial cohesion. I start with the challenge of mobility, in concrete public transport, with the implementation of the Express network. cat, which as you know, therefore, has also been implemented in an important way within the territory. So is what he does to college. They know that our university model is a territorial model, but no matter what, they grant help to those students from the regions of the Upper Pyrenees, the Aran Valley and the Solsones. Or for what he does to reelers. Let's talk about how good part of the projects that are ending up at these times are working, for example, like Vansa and Fórnols, or Alas and Cerc, or the C-28 to the Aran, or the Tresponts tunnels, between Organyà and Montan de Tost. Or for what it does to digital connectivity. Digital infrastructures understand them as tools that allow you to stay in your municipality so that you can develop your visquis on visquis activity. As you know, the Open Party of Catalonia deploys the national commitment for fiber with equal opportunities for all companies, all municipalities, all citizens visquina where visquina. Or for the one who says hello. We have a territorial system, however, in addition, the digital revolution allows us to open up new opportunities, such as the pilot project that is due to end at Pallar Hospital, the « Greetings a bit, which allows us to follow the chronic diseases and avoid the displacement of the diseases, more than being able to connect via call with a professional. And if these are very concrete policies that we are now carrying out from different government departments, the 2020 Project also prioritizes a set of policies that must respond to territorial cohesion: policies in the field of infrastructure and mobility, such as the development and implementation of T-Mobility for the deployment of tariff integration in Catalonia; or the implementation of new Express bus lines. In these moments there are no forty-three in operation; or in policies of the promotion of occupation and research, such as the impulse of energy transition from the development of new energy projects on small local-scale infrastructures can be added to a global network; or the improvement and impulse of search activities in the agri-food sector; or the modernization and improvement of fisheries structures in the primary sector; or also policies in the digital field, such as the establishment of a model of digital administration, thereby improving public services and relations with the city; or the promotion of technology blocking and the territorial management of the territorial borders of the region; That is to say, the whole set of policies that we make, the whole set of policies that we also present in the Project of Presuppositions 2020, but, as I said in a principle, we also highlight some of the nine policies that we are already designing. In fact, just last week's plenary session, the group of commons also asked me about the territorial inequalities in Catalonia and I took the opportunity to explain a proposal that has been taken up in the subsequent motion that they have put forward, and that, indeed, I hope that you, therefore, also support it when your vote is produced. I am talking specifically about the rural agenda. As you know, as you said in the Quito Declaration of 2016..., you literally said: "According to forecasts, the world's urban population will practically double by 2050, which will make urbanization one of the most transformative trends of the 21st century. And in order to face this challenge precisely the General Assembly of the United Nations approved the New Urban Agenda in Quito, which seeks the absolutation of a model of urban development that is sustainable in the field of the social, environmental and economic futures. And from here, as you know, is created the Urban Agenda of Catalonia, which must be the tool to enable us to enhance opportunities and face the challenges posed by the growing urbanization. Thus, the Catalan urban agenda integrates the goals that are known as the 2030 Agenda, sustainable development goals that have an urban dimension to achieve, as the United Nations statement says, that cities are inclusive, secure, resilient and sustainable. But, in the band, the Urban Agenda of Catalonia adds objectives that do not come explicitly from the 2030 Agenda. And this unique contribution also responds to the need to localize areas of action to the specificities of our country, our cities and our territories. In fact, in November 2018, in the constitution of the Urban Agenda of Catalonia, there was also the participation of the ACM and the network of micropopulations of Catalonia, because the agenda wants to be a strategic agreement of country and elements of rurality – you talked about it – as respect for the territory, energy transition and repopulation must be present. But we think we need to go further. And if the reading that 66_percent of the population will live in cities– in fact, in Europe already does 75_per_cent–, this means the creation of an urban agenda from which to work the reptes that it generates, since, if this reading is what they do to them, the reading that 1.1_per_cent of the population of Catalonia lives in villages that manage 32_per_cent of the territory can be nothing other than that of generating a proper agenda, a rural agenda from which to work the reptes that it generates and to absolve the objectives of sustainable development 2030. Now, the rural agenda and the urban agenda must work in full coordination, seeking a shared strategy to activate all the territories on the basis of their resources, their abilities, their abilities and potentialities, so that, with this – and I finish – we can only achieve real territorial cohesion in this way. What we are asking is that we also have Catalonia's rural agenda on the Catalan policy agenda, because this way we will get out of it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.60.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise, with the objective you were commenting on, the objective of territorial cohesion and of making a country alive, obviously we should agree. What you have said are great words, great objectives of which, in my opinion, I do not think anyone who is today in this hemisphere can be against it. Now, his intervention, we think, has a profile of... well, of a statement of intent other than the intervention of a councillor of a government that is ruling. Because when it's down to reality, when it's going to see the population data, the population loss of the different communities, or the weather, we see that these objects, with which we obviously agree, are left in this, in the objects. And when we look at the presupposition of 2020, we see that, of these objectives, this government will only be able to supplement it with the resources you foresee. As I said in the first intervention, territorial cohesion and democratic balance is a pending assignment. It is a government that faces this challenge in a global way. He said he'd call a decent picture of the country to apply concrete actions to where they're needed. And we believe your government doesn't have this honest photograph. We believe that the way of articulating these measures is through a plan for the impulse of territorial cohesion in Catalonia; a plan that must establish a strategy for the democratic repte that we have, especially directed to the regions of compulsory reactivation, that should affect the regions of Ponent, Pirineu-Aran, Terres de l'Ebre, but also some of the hinterland of Catalonia or those of the coast that, because of its special situation – spoke before the Baix Penedès, but could speak for example of the Conca de Barberà or the Priorat – they need a special treatment. This plan should involve a cross-cutting work of the different councils and should address, in our view, different areas, from governance to rights and opportunities or economic development and environmental sustainability. When we talk about governance, we cannot fail to think about the small municipalities and the special characteristics of smaller municipalities, and therefore about the need for a specific_mark for these municipalities, especially in rural areas, which facilitates their administrative management and a better amount of their financing, especially in areas of population loss. When we talk about rights and opportunities we are talking about reviewing and adapting the performance of public services to small municipalities, but also rethinking a strategy of mobility that guarantees connectivity with large communication infrastructures in order to be able to access public services of quality or specialized to the cities, or the link between rural school and the territory, or how to bring knowledge, research or investigation to the rural world. When we talk about work, we talk about promoting the employability of public professionals in these areas. In fact, the company Assumpta Escarp spoke especially of the workers in the health field; we need a job rehabilitation of these workers and adapt the training to the peculiarities of the environment in which they need to develop the knowledge that is obtained. And when we talk about economic development and environmental sustainability, we talk about, among other things, generating economic activity in our sectors and business models, encouraging bio-economic processes that are particularly linked to forest management and biomass profit, and obviously empowering the agri-food sector in those territories where this is the basis of its economy. But in other regions it will be necessary to create the conditions to strengthen the existing industry or to work for its reindustrialisation, because its environment is no longer a rural environment, but it has already had industry and, under different circumstances, has left. And it will also be necessary to face the demographic challenge of those population-receiving communities that need to generate job opportunities. But in any case the plan that is designed – that must have, as I said, the involvement of all departments – will have to have a premise that gives it the resources to pull it forward. And it is the resources that are lacking in the Project of Presumables prepared by the Government, in this case also with the pact with the commons; some presuppositions that cannot cope, as we have said before, with the needs of those areas, of those regions, that most need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, to make the counter-replication, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.62.0	Thank you, President. MP, Miri, do you know what we need in Catalonia in order to bring the best policy of territorial cohesion to fruition? Financing. And do you know what the problem is with our funding? So we don't have just and necessary funding, which corresponds to what citizens and citizens of Catalonia generate. And that's the reality. Because the fact is that Catalans and Catalans don't have the funding we need or deserve. And this is a reality that we should all find... his complaint, and work to transform all this reality at once. Because the consequences of the lack of funding have a direct impact on the capacity of public policies that the Government can develop. And, therefore, it affects in the day-to-day of all citizens, viscose on viscose, and vote what they vote for. And policies for territorial cohesion are no exception to this lack of funding. It is clear that without the structural fiscal deficit that more than EUR 16,000 million of public policies could last, among them those of territorial cohesion, many more. But in accounts to establish measures to study and correct this tax deficit, the measure established by the central government is to stop publishing the tax balances, or even everything – or even everything – stop calculating them. And it is clear that the repeated inefficiencies of investment by the State also directly and daily affect citizens and citizens of Catalonia and also affect the development of the territory. I will give you two very illustrative examples, because, along with the fact that the level of the investment assumptions is totally inadequate, it turns out that the total executed, if not because unfortunately it is what it is, would seem like a joke of very bad taste. Because in the best cases, out of every 100_euro assumed – in the best cases – there are sixty-six. Or, said in another more graphic way, one of every three years Catalonia gives them free of charge. And, if you want, we are talking about incompliments also in a basic infrastructure for territorial cohesion, for long-distance cohesion and also for rural cohesion, such as the railway infrastructure of this country. It turns out, let's remember, that in the period 2008-2016 there was a plan of Rodalies with an initial planned reversal of 4,306_million euros. But who was the ultimate execution of this millionaire plan? So, miri, just over a 12-per-cent. That is to say, of these 4,300 and millions expected for the reversal in the line of Rodalies, there are still 3,700 missing to execute. I already said that if it wasn't because it's true, it would seem like a joke of very bad taste. And that's just an example of how many people could put it. But it's that the reps we have are very big, and the lack of funding is a reality. It is also a reality that often lacks political will at the time to implement specific measures that take into account the reality and characteristics of each territory, and thus can advance in territorial cohesion. Look, you are the Spanish Government and therefore demand political will: the political will in financing, but also – the political will in what they are responsible for and that in the area of territorial cohesion could be, for example, to bring to an end the reorganisation of European foundations, the known as the CAP – you already know what I am talking about – and that strategic plans are set up at the territorial level, with the objective of being able to manage resources more effectively and effectively. From Catalonia we need to be able to define our agricultural policies, because the diversity of the sector in the Spanish State makes it impossible to establish the conditions for CAP subsidies from a central point of view. In fact, this is already a petition that has been repeatedly expressed by Councilwoman Jordan, and that now, from this Faristol, also requires them to affect this feeling. This is also territorial cohesion. As is also required for the Delta, measures proposed by the Delta Consensus Table, in which it refers to the management of river sediments, measures that dictate European directives and which the Spanish Government also systematically fails to complete. Therefore, they ask that they affect, in this case, why the Ministry for Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge and the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation also complete these commitments. I'm done. Policies aimed at social and territorial development are a priority for this Government, because, for us, territorial cohesion and social cohesion are two with the same currency. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-11-4901.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. As we have announced, therefore, the two questions that were planned for this late are going to pass to you. Therefore, there are no more subjects to deal with today. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, you gave them the morning – excuse me. To the gods. Thank you.
