ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Designation of MPs for the 2020 budgetary period]] [[231-00003/12]] The fourth point of the order of the day is the appointment of the MPs for the budgetary period of 2020. The Enlarged Bureau, as established in Article 37.5 of the Rules of Procedure, has granted the Ple the designation of Mr Antonio Espinosa Cerrato, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans ; Mr Narcis Clara Lloret, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and Mr Marc Sanglas and Alcantarilla, of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, as well as MPs interveners for the budgetary period of 2020. Can they consider this proposal approved by consent? [[Pause.]] Yeah? So these three MPs, Mr Espinosa, Mr Clara and Mr Sanglas, are appointed as MPs interveners for the 2020 fiscal year. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission of inquiry into institutional violence during the celebration of the U of October referendum]] [[252-00019/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a commission of inquiry into institutional violence during the celebration of the U of October referendum. This proposal was presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. Therefore, in order to present this motion for a resolution, we will start the debate with the proposed parliamentary groups, on a single two-minute intervention period for each group and for the proposed parliamentary sub-group. It begins, on this occasion, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr Marc Parés. When he wants to. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He will play it later, Mr. Vidal, they are the proposing groups and the order is: Catalonia in Comú Pode, the Subgroup of the CUP, Parliamentary Republican Group and Joints for Catalonia. Anyway, he'll have his two minutes later. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.2.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, there is no doubt that the U of October 2017 will become part of the history of our country. These past weeks, at the 155th Research Committee, we could see how the groups that participate in this committee share a lot of elements about what it was and what it meant that day. The U of October, as a social and national transformation, tells us about Marta Rovira; the U of October as an expression of the enormous social and community fabric of our country and its ingenious capacity for self-organisation, tells us Councilman Rull. Look, we're in full agreement. Now, if we go out on the street and ask the people, randomly, what it meant for them the U of October 2017, of course we find multiple lives, contrasting feelings, different meanings depending on who answers us; as if we asked the parliamentary groups of this chamber. The Councillor Romeva told us that, in order to advance in the resolution of the political conflict, it would be necessary to recognize pain and patience; all pain and patience, that of all parts of the conflict. We share it, too, fully. And we understand that the creation of this commission of inquiry, which we propose here today, can contribute to this recognition. Certainly, the events of October 1, 17th and all that has surrounded this date, both before the reference and after the celebration, has been carried with a huge emotionality, which has expressed itself in multiple directions. And I think we have to be enormously respectful, one and the other, as every one of us lived those days and we have to hear that that late one has made decisions, from different institutions, that have caused pain to different parts of our society. And with this I am not equated with the different forms of patience that have lived and expressed those days, because we are fully aware – because it is obvious – that the political conflict that we are experiencing and that we are now beginning to move through the dialog has been expressed in the last years of an extremely unequal correlation of forces. The State has made use of its monopoly on violence and has acted with police repression – especially the U of October, but not only that day – ; with institutional repression, applying 155 in a barred and anti-democratic manner, but endorsed by the same Constitutional Court, and with judicial repression, with the shameful condemnation of the prisoners and the independent press and the multiple open causes. The U of October was the day when most clearly the repression of the state apparatus was directed indiscriminately, not only against the citizens and anonymous citizens who, individually, that day we decided to vote, but above all, against a collectively organized and clearly peaceful citizenry. Two million, three hundred and a thousand people who managed to exercise their right to vote and who literally defended the ballot boxes against the police force of a whole state. The ballot box against the pots. The symbolism of this civic collective resistance, for me, already has enormous strength, in terms of democratic opposition. But the best of all – and this still gives more power to the U of October – is that the State, with all its judicial and police force, with all its intelligence services, did not achieve that the reference is not celebrated. And he couldn't do it, not just for the will and resilience of all those anonymous people, defending the electoral colleges, but, above all, for the strength of collective self-organization. A very large part of this country – not the whole, it is true – not the whole, not the whole country, but a very important part did self-organize itself to defend the right to be able to freely decide its political future through a referendum. But let's go back to the multiple meanings of the U of October. There are deputies and deputies from this chamber, who still hold today that a democratic mandate has emerged from the U of October. In fact, this hemisphere is the result of some elections, imposed by 155, in which three formations presented themselves promising that they would deploy the republic that had emerged from that reference. We do not share this relationship, not because we do not follow republicans – that we are – in fact, we do not share this relationship, precisely because we are deeply republicans, and because we believe that imposing the will of the 43_percent of the population that participated in that referendum, over the conjunction of the Catalan people, would be an exercise of domination contrary to how republicanism understands, historically, the concept of freedom. We believe that we can move forward through the dialog, as the new state coalition government is beginning to do. And dialogue will also involve, to a certain extent, reviewing the interpretation that each of us made of that day, made of the U of October. Look, for me, the U of October was clearly a turning point, it's the expression of a very important part of Catalonia's citizenship telling the State that the 78's rule is exhausted. It is an attempt to impose a constitutional rule by force and a vast majority of Catalan society peacefully and organizationally resist this imposition. And effectively, this is republicanism, fighting the will of domination. And the victory of the U of October – because the other day also told us, Mireia Boya: "The U of October was a victory in multiple dimensions – it was this victory. So that victory is, with a clear sense of doubt, the expression of the falsity of this 78th rule. And that's why it's also important for this committee of inquiry, we believe, because it will allow us to collect and systematize all the information so that we can actually verify this fact. They say a lot of constitutionalists – and I don't mean the parties that self-identify constitutionalists, but the academics who study the constitutional law – say that the main function of a constitution is to achieve the political integration of the society's joint venture. And therefore, cohesive society. The U of October is the moment when it becomes clear that the 78's rule no longer fulfils this function. And it is, therefore, the principle of the end of a rule. A rule that, beyond its origin, in my view, has self-destructed. Because, indeed, the Constitution of 78 is a text with which they won and guaranteed many rights and very many freedoms. The problem is that in the last few years we have seen how to move forward, opening the text to the reality of our days... – what the text actually allows and allows –, what we have seen, however, in the last few years, is that it has retreated, with a more restrictive interpretation, every more recent copy of the same text, to turn it into an absolutely useless instrument of domination to give way to the yearnings of Catalonia. And that makes the text of 78 totally useless and unsustainable today. And for this, it is necessary to open a new stage; a new era to be able to advance. And the U of October, for me, what it shows is just this; it puts into evidence this weakness. To face the longings of the joint venture of the Catalan society of the 21st century. It is, therefore, as I said, a moment of dismissal; the moment when this old and obsolete rule is put on hold and when it begins to open up new hopes. And that is precisely why, in the band for a obvious question of human rights, we believe that we need to investigate what happened to that U of October. To see the despair and impotence of a state, they make a totally disproportionate use of violence. A police action that disobeys the status mark, where it is established that the Mossos are the integral police of Catalonia, and that, in contrast, that day, is produced, under the direction of the colonel of the Civil Guard, Diego Pérez de los Cobos, imposed for the prosecution and under the coordination of the secretary of state. Only for this reason, this chamber should ask for explanations, even though we know that who should give explanations, most likely, will refuse to compare before the committee that we approve today. A commission that we understand is also important for rescuing victims of this institutional rape. It is necessary to investigate what happened, and the victims must be recognized as such, and this chamber, representing the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, has the power to do so. Because we know that, as an institutional violation of an expired regime, it will cost a lot that justice does justice; as demonstrated by the fact that it is intended to remove the Barcelona Assembly from the popular accusation. Because, if well the meanings, as I said, the lives and interpretations of the U of October are multiple in our Catalan society, and it is important that we recognize these multiple lives and interpretations of this day, if we ask more concretely about the police performance of the National Police and Civil Guard Cos that day, then, the differences tend to disappear, and we find a much greater feeling of rebuilding that police performance: the 60_per_cent of the Catalan population, according to the CEO has published, the February of 2018. To the same Commission of 155, to which I referred earlier, President Montilla also reminded us of his critical position on the performance of the police units of the State that day. An action that may go unpunished by the courts, but in no case can go unpunished politically. And for that reason, we understand that the obligation of this Parliament today can be no other than to investigate these facts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now yes, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.4.0	Good morning, all of you. Surely a whole generation of Catalans and Catalans will pass into history as the U of October generation; as the one who posed or gave the first pass – and determining – in the construction of the national liberation of our people. The U of October can have different readings, but one surely would be the most important act of collective civil disobedience that was given during the first two decades of the 21st century in Europe. But also the most important popular democratic act of obedience that has been given in this continent after two decades. The majority of our people and the majority – we must also remember – of Members of this Parliament, in an exercise of a fundamental right of assembly, such as the right of self-determination of the people. Many Members and many Members can defend and have believed that the state is, in essence, the monopoly of violence. We will not now have a complex discussion about what the naturalness of the state means, but we can certainly put it in relation to what it expresses or could express, in two different meanings, the U of October. For a band, the democratic will of a people that they want to build – or that they want to build and that they want to build – their own state, with collective and voting democratic action; the power emerges from political action. And, for another band, the action of the Spanish State, which the only one that does is legitimize its State through violence, even though that means breaking down with the essences of the State of right and yet that means violating the fundamental rights. Before the law of the Spanish State, we have always invoked the democratic legitimacy of the people of Catalonia. And in this exercise of the self-determination reference the apparatus of the Spanish State made it very clear that it applied institutional violence. And the institutional violence application was not well because the self-determination reference could not be developed. They'll explain. We have to go only to see the data of how many electoral colleges closed down the Mosso and how many electoral colleges closed down the National Police and the Civil Guard to see that their objective was quite another and it was double: for one band, to generate violence because the international community could never recognize the self-determination reference – the first objective of institutional violence – and, secondly, an institutional violence transferred to generate for and for those who were participating in this reference, and that it was intended to generate a perspective that this should never happen more. What we need to investigate or what we need to be the object of this committee, beyond the exact definition of the motion for a resolution. Those responsible for the bodies of the Civil Guard and the National Police, without any justification, deployed the 1st of October a strategy of winning the collection, inflicting all kinds of violence, generating physical and mental sufferings, and also with a will, in many cases, to humiliate. Those who lived – or see, better said –, live and see, those images in the electoral college, either directly or through how the images came to us, we must recognize that it generated us by. And it wasn't one over us individually but it was a patience over everything that could fill our people. We also have to say that those visions of violence have generated, in some sectors of our people that had not been raised or that first October to vote, that annexed to the electoral coll·legislation as the political response before institutional violence. Also, and at the same time, the intention was to generate scenes of violence because then it is pre-constituted proof of the effects of generating judicial proceedings. The operation of the Civil Guard and the National Police put themselves at risk and directly affected physical but also psychological integrity. We can talk about a collusion that expresses every type of violation of phonemental rights. And even so, we can have a first date of the damage they caused, and so the Department of Health moved it, with 1,066 wounded people, further away – and that's what we need and it's necessary – it's the psychological and psychological damage that generated that violence after the U of October. In fact, this commission also needs to be determined when institutional violence was born, whether the U of October was born or was born before the U of October. We may have discovered that it was in the preparation of the self-determination referendum that they – and we are referring not to a ‘they in abstract form but to the apparatus of the Spanish State – systematically initiated a violation of fundamental rights, from freedom of assembly, ideological freedom, freedom of expression: from the confiscation of political material to repression against the Electoral Union, from the assignment to their political parties to the detention of Generality officials, from the generation of judicial provocations to justify a subsequent secession to the detention of those responsible for our Government at the middle of the Litoral round, just a few metres from this Parliament. For another band, we have also seen as well as almost all the Spanish judiciary has given no justice response – they will say it was a legal response – to the violence derived from the U of October. The Constitutional Court, which denied the existence of violence. Macrocausa before the Supreme Court, which wanted to minimize that violence. Arxiu of some court cases before the judicial actions that denounced the institutional violation of the U of October. We can, at last, see how it is no longer a matter of not persecuting the crime but of a mockery exercise that means denying the existence of institutional rape. We do not, therefore, trust in any case that through the Spanish judicial apparatus we can have a minimum response before the institutional violence that we suffered. And it is in this logic that the Committee of Inquiry into the Institutional Violence of the U of October is necessary. And also for reasons of historical responsibility. At the length of the history of our country we have had expressions of institutional violence much harder than the U of October assumed. We should remember what the post-October 34 violent response meant, which meant the post-February 36 violent response, and the forty years of darkness, and also – and we never forget it – what meant the institutional violence of the so-called Spanish Transition, which, at last, today we have not been able to give an answer either with criteria of legality or with criteria of justice. And that no one has the slightest doubt about it: we are not moved by hatred or revenge, we are moved by esteem for a world and a society free of any oppression, and this goes so far as to know what is so difficult, that it is true, but at least to recognize the facts that happened to the U of October regarding the intervention of the Spanish State through institutional violence. And that's why the objectives of this committee are: documenting the facts, keeping a map of institutional violence, determining those responsible, analyzing the facts of violated rights and looking for repair formulas. It is true that the report of the Office of the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights was just over three weeks ago that it was precisely that the report of the Office of the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights was translated into its compilation of the Spanish State; point 15, it urged that it be old in relation to an investigation into the violent events of the U of October; point 22, it recalled that as of 28 September 2017 the need had been translated to ensure that the fundamental rights were guaranteed – right of assembly, right of demonstration, right of ideological freedom–; point 25, remembering that by April 2018 the special rapporteur of the United Nations had been transferred to the Spanish authorities to refrain from representing himself as a politician. Before all of this, the Spanish State has not only done nothing, but has done exactly the opposite; so that the United Nations has done exactly the opposite, and that is why this committee takes on more importance and can even be a mandate derived from the United Nations in relation to what the Spanish State does not do. And you can, yes, you can, too, move a few logics of truth, justice and reparation. There is no doubt that truth is always a very complex exercise, we do not want to deny it, but, as a minimum, determine what happened. Justice, which also requires recognition of the facts, of its meaning and also of the determination of its responsible, and therefore does not fall into relativism. And repair it. If truth is complex and justice is complex, repair, even more. But we should, in this repair exercise, put in value what it meant, for a band, the democratic exercise of the U of October, but also that we may not have prepared to avoid institutional violence. And maybe – and let's say – we need to think if – and it won't be the exact content of this committee – for the real reparation in relation to the institutional violence of the U of October, what we need is a new self-determination reference where it can be. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] prepare for what was not prepared and have an absolute effectiveness.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.5.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.6.0	Therefore – and I end President – truth, justice, reparation and perhaps a new reference of self-determination.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.8.0	Thank you, President. Members of the government, deputies, deputies, first of all, a record for President Torra, his family; unjustly assigned, first for malalty and then, also, for judicial settlement. Also a record for all the convicts, the ones we have in exile, the ones we have in prison, the ones who are now being judged for an act of civil disobedience on the stairs of the TSJ [[applause]] , for the falsely accused of terrorism, for which they were attacked by the U of October, from the First of October until now by any police, and, I repeat, by any police, and logically all the support to the Toni Soler, the Jair Domínguez and the Magi Garcia, of the Està passà, for the accusations from the prosecution. [[Greetings.]] Today we are here to talk about the creation of the police rape investigation commission against the voters of October 1st. Some of us have lived and you have surely seen it. And it's not to investigate banalities like, for example, the fact that there's the first Spanish contribution to martial arts, like flying kick on the stairs, but on the subject of indiscriminate and gratuitous violence. I know of those who spent the night defending the collèges, in this case, in the Espluga de Francolí, my people, but also collaborating, like many others, to make possible the referendum of the country. I was defending the night... – what concept, defending, having to defend a collegiate, having to defend the ballot boxes, having to defend the paperettes, having to defend democracy. And yes, we did have to. He's very curious. And I give thanks to the Open Choices and the CDR to make it possible. To my people no one came to attack us; therefore, this urn [[the orator assigns an urn of the First of October]] No one was able to take it, no one was able to attack it, no one was able to segregate it. The Mossos came to certify that we were hundreds and that it was impossible to close the collegiate. And all our prayers had known that it was a transcendent day, an important day, a rising day, and that it would be strong emotions. What we didn't know was that it would be so negative. Because all the prayers we had lived the illusion of leading a great collective feast, and also the responsibility for a collective disobedience. But, unfortunately, that day was a constant negation to see the images of salvation that we had taken, and the negation to know whether they would come or not. Everyone who was in college, from this band, I'm sure you were, there, they're coming, they're not coming. Some of us here, from this room, sure they'll catch up some time, they'll see it in the front line. Early in the morning, videos arrive for WhatsApp or for social networks. Secure people – safe, huh? , confident – shouting "Sound people, rebrench indiscriminately to any place. Sarral, Cabra del Camp, Vilabella, Mont-roig, Lleida, Alcarrás, Ràpita are some of the names that will be etched to the shame of the history of the State. And, unfortunately, many of these still remain linked, because many of these mayors who were there at that time are still being prosecuted. In my region there were only attacks on Sarral, in this case to the Conca de Barberà. Without saying good morning or notifying why they were doing so, they began to carry indiscriminately. And that's what a member of this Parliament knows, so because his German was there in the front row. International reactions were happening, and some criticized what they saw. And, also, I would like to say thank you to someone from this band. [[the clock assigns the right sector of the hemisphere]] who publicly criticized all the violence that had taken place. You know who you are, you know who we're talking about. Thank you very much for being there. Because that doesn't go from political banners to democracy and justice. Because it was the most important day of violence in Catalonia's contemporary history, starring Spanish police forces against Catalan voters. Put them against the ballot box, violence against the vote. It should be recalled that in five years, the Ministry of the Interior has not sanctioned any agent – no agent, no agent – in order not to carry the identification number. And we know that thanks to a question from Basque MP Jon Iñarritu. And, logically, much less will punish the improper use of free violence. That is why – even though Councillor Buch is not – I would like to remind him that we have to set an example, like Mossos, also, that we do not have rotten apples and people who want to do so, that is, because if we do not..., there we presented ballot boxes, but some of what they were in charge of was to offer us the State's answer. And they can choose: extensible fuck or some other kind of fuck. [[The orator shows them.]] Why, of course, are we Spaniards – and this is a question I ask you – or are we not Spaniards? Because if we're Spaniards, they were free to attack citizens of Spain. I thought, "I'm coming from a military paternal family, people who left blood for Spain to Cuba and the Philippines, of course, I thought that I was always for the enemies, for the adversaries; but, of course, for the "for them, therefore, it is seen that they were citizens of Spain, because we are Spanish or we are not Spanish. If we are Spaniards, please help us defend the Spanish citizens of free violence. And if we're not Spaniards, let us decide our future in a free and democratic way. Because this physical rape, as we saw, was the front of the 155's institutional rape. The eyes that were pulled out that day... Unfortunately... today they see I'm wearing things that look like I'm coming from the Servei Estació, but I'm not wearing a rubber pilot. But the eyes pulled for the police that day, in the case of the Roger Spanish – who now, thanks to the Diligences of the Mossos, not for the collaboration of the police, we can identify who was the one who shot. So, of course, these drivers, these banned drivers in Catalonia, for this Parliament, huh? For this institution, people were shot and there were people, such as Roger Español, and others, in post-sentence demonstrations, who were in a lot of trouble, and that some of them lost their sight. The vast majority of complaints from the U of October have been put to rest by the courts. A lot of people didn't report it, for what, why? You see that you don't know that one day you're sleeping quietly at home, and you stop and you have one and a half, or more, incommunicado, falsely accused of terrorism, and you're in your life. The question is: if Catalonia has clearly shown its willingness – and so it has – to renounce the violence to achieve Catalonia's independence, is the Spanish State willing to renounce the violence to guarantee the unity of Spain? Because we saw the court: no one gave their faces at the time of saying who had ordered the police charges – no one. « No, it wasn't me, it was another, « No, no, I don't know anything – I don't know anything. No one's gonna give their face? Is everything falling behind your fingers and your robes? It's very easy, isn't it? , to live when you have all the power; but donating the face is harder. It is a painful chapter for Catalonia, but above all sad for Spain. For Catalonia is the founding date of contemporary Catalonia. That day maybe we didn't have the victory, certainly, and then, so, all the folds, the ones we're in this band, we've made a lot of mistakes, let's recognize it and look forward to the repair. But I'm sure that day was advancing the victory very close. We're in a situation that... between democracy and violence, sculpin. And all these folds, since we're in a parliamentary chamber, we should do it and keep it clear. Democracy is always to speak, to speak, to speak, to speak, to speak, to negotiate and to agree and, if possible, to ratify it by voting. Between the Spanish unit and the popular will, scullinus; it's very easy. I hope that all the pleas come to the commissions of inquiry and all the pleas we can get the whole thing out of, because it was one day, a very hard and very powerful day, with what it means emotionally hard and sad. And I would also like to say this – I will ask this gang of the hemicicle –: I want to give thanks also to people like Mayor Núria Marín, who intervened to stop the police violence. But – it must also be said –, therefore, mayors like Angel Ros or Josep Fèlix Ballesteros, who disappeared before the violence that was against their voters; whether they were their voters or not, they were citizens of their citizens. Therefore, Mayor Núria Marín, thank you, despite not facilitating places for the vote, but thank you. Why should I say this: the PSOE has decorated these cops. Some gave orders to intervene? That's right. Some of the others applauded? That's right. And a few thirds have decorated them. And all of you have given them support. And luckily, there was still no Vox, because, if not, someone could still have given orders to shoot. We have a disjunctive here as a society, as a country: either we are Spanish by seduction or repression. And this is in the hands of those who have power in the Spanish State. This is either by seduction or repression. I wouldn't have a problem at all, like I have troubles, like the vast majority of the people we have here, we have troubles in the Spanish State, if I were to be Spanish if I were to consider myself a right-wing city, a first-class city, and not a second-class city; I wouldn't have any problem at all. But, as it's not possible, that's why we choose independence as we are in this band. And that's so clear. Because, if I organized the referendum, I defended the college, I participated in the referendum, and now, like many others, we want to know who prevented the referendum, who attacked the colleges and who attacked the voters. And I want to know this people of Catalonia, I want to know this society of Catalonia, I want to know the truth, I want to know the history, but also international organizations. Because many bodies at European level, such as the Council of Europe..., the Commissioner of Human Rights of the Council of Europe, the Nils Muižnieks, sent a letter to Minister Zoido asking for a free rape investigation precisely on the 4th of October that was left unanswered. It was also included in the report of the General Council of Europe, because it was included in the Annual Report on Human Rights. But it also means that there has been..., and that's why I take advantage of it to give thanks to institutions like Human Rights Watch or Iridia Center, which carries defenses, and I also give thanks, in this case, to the Barcelona Assembly, which was positioned and characterized as a particular accusation, all the while after the prosecution withdrew them, curious thing, whenever Vox allows it. We have 539 agents who go to the Royal Order of Knights of Saint Christopher; we have commissari Sebastián Trapote condecorat; we have General Pedro Garrido condecorat. Major Trapero, on the other hand, is being judged; but he, too, in this judgment, in which the judge in Madrid, said that between three bodies they could not put up with 2_million people. So there is no doubt about it, because we will do it again and now there will be no going back: we will vote and win. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Eduard Pujol. Say'm, Mr. Carrizosa. Why ask me the word? [[The applause continues. Pause.]] Say, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.10.0	Yes, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.11.0	One moment, one moment. Now, say, say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.12.0	Thank you. Mr. President, I wanted to know if you are authorized to bring objects and display objects for the speaker... [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] I want to know. [[applause]] , because it seems that no attention has been drawn while it has been being done so far, and I simply want to ensure that all the groups and all the speakers have the same right in this Parliament, because already enough evidence that you are a partial president we have, and then I ask you that: if we have changed the view already for all the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.13.0	Mr. Carrizosa, as you know, it is not legally forbidden to exhibit any type of material in the Faristol. In fact, so far, there have been photos, flags, books even in the hemisphere... Therefore, let's continue with the same criteria. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.14.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.15.0	When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.16.0	President, Councillors, Members of Parliament, good morning. I am the last to speak, of the four groups proposing this motion for a resolution for the creation of the commission of inquiry of the U d'Octubre. It is difficult to intervene after the other three groups and it is difficult for them to be surprised. So, if I may, I will focus on claiming what we share. With the CUP. With the UPC we share that the violence of the Civil Guard and the National Police was a collective punishment. Not just physical, psychic and institutional. On the 2nd day, that Sunday, the beginning of the 1st, the country rose up with blaus, masegat. Costa still has that violence today. With the common ones. With the commons we share that the intention of the powers of the State was clearly to bind and prevent the free exercise of the vote. Indeed, we want to be disabled, democratically disabled. And with Esquerra we share the will to put names and surnames to the victims who suffered institutional violence on the part of the State's security forces and bodies that day. And surely we share many more things, such as the ambition to build a modern country, at the forefront in all sectors, a country that is a leader in technology, in creativity, a country with a transformative soul, but also a country that continues to denounce the gravity of the exceptionality that we live in, a country where no one is left behind and everyone has opportunities. And alert, alert navigators, because there will be no opportunities to do so, nor will there be any freedom until repression is over and the weights and damage that are going to be recovered. Democracy requires us to keep the strict and clear complaint of injustice alive, but also to maintain resilience, strength or courage to continue forward. This is why we share the need, the urgency, the need to investigate the violence of the U of October. Why? It's simple. It's about bringing out the truths, all the truths. Why? To break the spiral of silence announced by Hannah Arendt and build a truly free and democratic society. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and this Parliament – and they will agree with this, I assume – we all need to work because people are good, because people's opportunities are guaranteed to be good, because we have good infrastructure, we would just miss it. This country is the university and Mobile, this country is the kilometres and kilometres of optical fiber of Councillor Puignero, which is a guarantee of the future. As also the future are the nine stations and the central tram of line 9 of the metro and the connection of the Railways to Thanks from the Spanish square passing through Francesc Macia; this is also future. The country is all that, planting for the climate emergency and also balancing the injustices in habitation. We must be obstinate in these objects. But the country – the country – is not just giving support to the strategic sectors, which need to do so, and managed it effectively from day to day, which need to manage well, and think, draw, project a shared horizon. But truth – truth – is essential. The country must also live in truth, in all truths. The U of October demands truth. For this reason we defend the creation of this commission, in the same way that the 155_Commission has made clear to the shame of this arbitrary artifact of repression and of the political understatement that it is 155. As President Puigdemont told us on Tuesday, 155 was a time of state; a time of modern state, designed to harm the institutions of Catalonia and its people and entities that will turn the civil society of a living country. Therefore, they speak of essential pillars, not novels. When we ask for truths around the U of October or 155, as is the case, we don't talk to them about smoke, we don't serve useless words, on the contrary, they are not intangible, volatile and empty: they are pillars. The truth is pillar, essential pillar, pillar of everything. Before yesterday, in this very Parliament, we had the intervention of President Puigdemont, Councillor Puig, Member of Parliament Boya and Member of Parliament Rovira to put on two years of exile, and also to 155. And a week ago – that time goes by – the Research Commission on Article 155, we saw the historical intervention of political prisoners in its parliament. Some of you weren't affected by their intervention, perhaps because they simply didn't have the courage to listen to them. In fact, we already know that some of you are more of throwing the stone and tying your hand or, better said, more of asking by doing the milomas without looking at the eyes and pulling up to run paths help me, it doesn't happen that they answer us what we don't want to feel or what we don't feel like. But in democracy – and before it was explained – the normal thing should be to listen, to talk, to talk, to talk, to sit back, to move forward to transform. In democracy what is not normal are political prisoners, exiles or who, in order to try to vote, Catalans and Catalans get out of the electoral colleges. Because they took us away. So from these interventions in the investigation committee of the last few days, as I said, I also want to keep a few words from Councillor Turull that should serve us in all learning folds. " 155," she said, "was the bypass from the total reduction of self-government to the de facto intervention of popular will at the polls. I already know that some of you will say that it is a subjective opinion; of course it is. But it's a qualified opinion, it's the point of view of one of the direct stakeholders in the October 2017 events that today is unfairly undertaken. Giving the word to the protagonists of the 155_has brought clarity to the lies that are launched from the State. That's why we also need to create this October U commission, to investigate and put on where others are constantly, systematically, trying to catch the dark and the lie. And it's that during the arbitrary trial and the October U traps in the Supreme Court we'll already see it; we'll see that the popular prosecution, the prosecution and some witnesses wanted to defuse the blatant, brutal rape that went against the Civil Guard and the National Police. So we have to do the opposite, we have to refocus the objective. We need to create this commission of inquiry to share the experiences of victims, not just botxins. We have to create this commission in order not to forget the enormous exercise of determination, empowerment and fraternity that the people of Catalonia demonstrated, the day it was said that there would be no papers, no ballots, no ballots, no ballots, no voters, that there would be absolutely nothing, and there would be absolutely nothing: there would be papers, ballots, ballots, voters and dignity. We need to set up this commission to investigate the origins and leaders of that deranged police and institutional rape. That's why we also need to create this commission from the U of October, to investigate and put on light, I insist, where others want to get the dark and the lie. We need to know what and why and how of that barbaric state. We have a right; it's true. We have the right but above all we have the duty to investigate why everyone and everyone – attention, that is no joke, that is not a small thing – about the 1,066 injuries that suffered physical damage during that day, but we also have to investigate all the physical damage of the barbaric day, those that are not seen. This is democracy, ladies and gentlemen, voting, as it is democracy to enquire into the facts and motivations of botxins, to bring forth the truth. We will create this commission to map the U of October and its effects. We want to know who took the decisions of that police brutality, why they made the decision to hit the city in free and defenceless, instead of stopping the ear, which was the one that touched them, and to listen, to listen to the civilization, the civic and political reasons of thousands of citizens. And don't worry – don't worry – you're not going to worry. Without full democracy, well-being is an unstoppable chimera, and without truth there is no democracy either. They don't think they're according to five gurus of the dial, that they're disconnecting prosperity from democracy as if they're even in different boxes. Don't worry. Intangibles are a pillar to preserve, they are all necessary to protect tangibles, for example, the day-to-day governance and the guarantee of prosperity. Many times President Torra has wondered how much democracy he is willing to endure the Spanish State; how much? Now we add: how much truth about the U of October are we willing to spare? Listen, Spain, why don't you believe in democracy? Why? Why did you do that? Why are you doing this? And, surely, why would you do that again? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Then, to fix its position, has the word the deputy Matías Alonso, of the Ciutadans Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.18.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament... The attempt to riot Catalonia on October 1, 2017, is part of the strategy of separatism to break the democratic order. A strategy so clear and premeditated that on 2 October the Government that carried out the coup agreed to create the Special Commission on the Violation of Fundamental Rights in Catalonia. On October 1st we attended a coordinated representation that sought to extend the image that Spain remained supposedly anchored in the late-offranchism, the same of which much of the separatism that governs us is natural heir and main beneficiary. The parliamentary groups that invested Mr. Torra, with the explicit support of Catalonia in Comú Puem – the white mark of Podemos at the hand of Colau – [[remorse of the voice]] , present us this motion for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry on institutional violence – I understand that « supposed, except that they refer to the one promoted by the coup government itself – in the context of the holding of that yes that supposed referendum of October One. [[Greetings.]] I would also like to remind the PSC that this committee intends to re-edit the one created by the Government on 2 October and that it was abolished in application of democratic legality, once adopted on 155, with the votes of the PSOE, and at least part of the PSC itself. A PSC that today sees with good eyes that Pedro Sánchez visits this noon the Palau de la Generalitat to kiss the hand of Mr. Torra [[remorse of the voice]] , which, having lost its status as Member, can no longer be considered as President. [[Greetings.]] It may seem anecdotal that the natural partner of sanitation in Catalonia supports this commission of inquiry after the coup to democracy that we live in this Parliament during September and October 2017, and that counted on the firm and democratic opposition of Mr.Rabell and Mr. Coscubaila, leaders of the early parliamentary group of which now represents the interests of Colau and Churches in this Chamber. A blow to democracy that separatist groups and their related organizations intended to extend to the entire Catalan territory on October 1, 2017. The authors of the coup à la démocratie intend to whitewash their shameful acts with this commission. Those who were then in this Parliament and continue now, and those who supported the coup from outside the institutions and today are integrated as deputies of Junts per Catalunya – the corrupt Convergence – and Esquerra Republicana, which should be remembered as leading the ranking of coup in Catalonia since the 30s of the last century. [[Greetings.]] This commission of inquiry that arises is one more step in the coup strategy that we are suffering in Catalonia since the times of Artur Mas. [[Widow's remorse.]] Today we are living a new chapter in this endless history in which separatist groups have turned their toxic process. And they no longer write it alone; the party of Ada Colau and the Catalan branch of the party of Pablo Iglesias participate actively in how many manoeuvres of agitation and propaganda the separatist forces pose. It's no surprise. Both the mayor of Barcelona and the now vice president of the Government of Spain have always shown, without decorum, without any blush, their complicity with separatism and totalitarianism. So there will be no surprises: the votes of the national populist bloc that claims the inapplicable right of self-determination – I hope that without those of the PSC of Iceta and for Sánchez – they will give green light to this farce, which will be nothing more than another propaganda instrument with which separatism wants to make up its totalitarian attempt to subvert the democratic order and to leave on paper in an illegitimate, illegal and violent way – yes, violent – both the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia. Indeed, on 1 October 2017 the government's disgovernment, the separatist parties and their related parapolitical organizations seriously violated democratic order and attacked public order. You are the main initiators of a national populist and totalitarian separatist process that has generated – and continues to generate – violence, and that seeks to trample upon the fundamental rights of the majority of Catalan citizens, as demonstrated by the gross adoption of their false laws of disconnection: that of referendum and political transition. You don't need to explain your coup on September 6 and 7, 2017. I myself and most of my parliamentary group colleagues – then we were twenty-five, today we are a majority in this chamber, with a group of thirty-six – we were here. You not only intended to strike a coup d'état, but tried to intimidate the opposition, trampling on our right to political participation and seriously violating the rights of the social majority in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Because that opposition, being a minority in the chamber, had a vast majority of social support. You, Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana and the CUP, now with Catalonia's connivance in Comú Puem, i.e. with the connivance of at least one part of the Government of Spain, intend to continue with their coup d'état, now of apparent low intensity in the forms, but with the same violence in the background. Before October One, there was violence, encouraged and coordinated by its parapolitical organizations. I do not say it, which also says it in a final judgment of the Supreme Court. During the October One pachanga there was also violence. [[Greetings.]] Many individuals, encouraged, coordinated and framed by and in the separatist parties and their parapolitical organizations sought to forcefully impose their coup will. What the State security forces and bodies did, what the National Police and the Civil Guard did, and what the Mossos d'Esquadra should have done, was the legitimate, prudent and weighted use of force in defence of democracy and the rule of law. [[Greetings.]] You continue to look for formulas to perpetuate the blow. I am not going to make – which I could – an exhaustive account of violent actions led by separatist groups and groups over the past two years, there is no time for that. But I have very much in mind the images of October 1, 2017. For example, in the Barcelona ensanche, in which a large organized group, a few hundred individuals, tumultuously harassed, insulted and assaulted the anti-disturbing agents of the National Police. Among those violent stalkers was, fence in hand, a certain Spanish Roger. The current Government of the Generalitat, which should be of all Catalans but which has chosen to continue with this shameful process of fracture of Catalan society, has distinguished this individual, whose main recognition is to be a street rioter, with the Cross of Sant Jordi. [[Widow's remorse.]] A graduate troublemaker who Junts per Catalunya presented to the general elections last November 10 as the first candidate for the Senate for the Barcelona constituency. By their deeds you will know them. You not only incite the use of violence, but reward and reward it. Prize for the violent and scornful for the Democrats. I repeat, on October 1, 2017, the National Police and the Civil Guard, despite not having the planned and due support of the Generalitat Police – I will not go into details that are sub judicious – defended democracy and constitutional order by making legitimate, prudent and weighted use of force under judicial guardianship. On October 1, 2017, a group of reckless rulers who believed they were unpunished called for disobedience and led a pseudor referendum to exercise an alleged right of self-determination. A malicious and reckless attitude that, they knew well, would lead to violent incidents in many cases. Some of these rulers have already had to face their responsibility; others will sooner or later. You, the proponents of this committee, have often said that of 'Europe looks at us, and it is true that Europe has looked at them and did not like what it sees. The European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Strasbourg, has already ruled on what its attempt to carry out the coup in a plenary session of this Parliament intended to hold on 9 October 2017 and which was suspended by the Constitutional Court. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled that such suspension was necessary in a democratic society, in particular for the maintenance of public security, the defence of order and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. [[Greetings.]] The rights and freedoms they continue to seek to violate repeatedly. And, look, Ciutadans isn't going to enter this game, he's not going to enter his game, we're not going to participate in that new sectarian pantomime they're trying to stage in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] We will continue to stop the coup and defend the democratic order that we have given ourselves among all the Spaniards and, therefore, among all the Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.19.0	Yes; why ask me the word, Mr. Riera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.20.0	Thank you, Vice President. Miri, it's for an orderly cry. We understand that the deputy of Ciutadans has manifested from the Faristol words manifestly offensive [[relays]] against a citizen, against Mr. Roger Español. We understand that the Rules provide that in these cases it is necessary to make a call to order. In particular, the Member has stated that Mr Roger Español is a street rioter, a city that is not here to defend itself and that, as we know, he has lost an eye from the violence of police repression. Therefore, we ask you, Vice-President, to make a call to order in application of the Rules and to respect and repair this city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. As you know, it's up to the presidency to make the calls to order. It is obvious that a long time ago in this Parliament there has been a use of freedom of expression that violates all limits, and there have already been many calls to order, and, therefore... [[The vice president said: "We just saw it a while ago. Widow's remorse. Give me the applause.]] Vice-President... You will see in the record your intervention as, say, observations for allusions to third parties, eh? And in this case, we can proceed with the following intervention. [[Pause.]] The word is now available to MP Óscar Ordeig, from the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.22.0	Good morning, counselors, deputies, deputies. In the first place, I would not want to start my intervention without making a recon and showing the support of our group and I surely grow from the chamber to the farmers and citizens of the delta, who are mobilizing at these times. And also make manifest the territorial crisis, of the territory, that we live, that will last and that we can address. Secondly, I also celebrate an element that I think is very important, surely the most important that will pass today. Unfortunately, it's not the debate that we're having here – I think – but it's the meeting of Presidents Sánchez and Torra, surely, to start this dialog that many of us preach, but sometimes it costs so much to open up, and so I think it's important to highlight it. The parliamentary groups of Junts, Esquerra, the CUP and the commons present a proposal to us. A motion for a resolution to do what? To create a commission of inquiry – another commission of inquiry – on the U of October – it is good that they have recognized themselves here... I was surprised, because I had pointed out to myself: "without self-criticism and Mr. Civit said, he has acknowledged that they have made mistakes; well, I think it is important to see what has not been done well, especially if there is a willingness to move forward – to analyze what they call "institutional violence, with the report of repression, that we have felt it many times, with an exposition of words that I believe could already copy it and link it to the conclusions of the commission of inquiry, because you already..., I believe you already have the report. Actually, they came here to explain it another time. And, therefore, we don't understand very well what the purpose of this investigation committee is. Follow you with your opinions? That we know them, that we also know who our own are; with this monologue many times of frontist rhetoric, of weightlessness, of disqualification? The disqualification of what you think is different, and today we haven't seen a good show. And this commission of inquiry will continue – you know – on this line. Why have it taken more than two years since the U of October to make this investigation commission? How did you feel about proposing this motion for a resolution now? Who heard you do it now, when President Torra tells us we're going to approve the premise and go to elections? If they don't have time. We don't think you've felt, at this point in time the path of assumptions to elections has been shown, looking back at this commission of inquiry. There won't be time to do it, and so we think it's not what it's about. We have spoken and discussed many times on this subject. In fact, every day is October's U; every day is September's 6th and 7th; every day is October's 27th. The presidents will obviously talk about everything that's been going on these years. Every day we're here talking about everything that's brought us here. And how can we not cope with the problems we have in Catalonia: the political problems, the social problems, the burdens, the assumptions, the hardships... And I ask myself: when you do all this stuff you have, sometimes you look at the look and think, "I won't be doing the same thing as I'm so critical of the other gang? To Esquerra's companies, and even to the CUP, where we have so much criticized the push, for so many years, to tie the flag back sometimes to persecution or disbelief to the one we didn't think was the same, now it turns out that with other arguments – with some reasons, sure, sure – we wouldn't be doing the same? I've got it clear, haven't I? The rhetoric of power has often mutated so as to find the arguments to continue holding power. And with more elections coming, even more. What happened on October U-day? A very sad day, a day that should never be repeated again. A sad day for the country's conjunct, for the conjunct of Catalans and Catalans, think as they think. The lack of dialogue, constant confrontation and unilateral decisions will lead to a regrettable result, which should be reflected on all the pleas. Deyen: « seduction or repression. All right, "seduction or repression, but I also ask you: you, the Catalans who do not think like you, what do you offer them? Seduction? Or do they offer them tax? We are clear about this: seduction. And so much so! Seducing, seducing and proposing, being proactius. [[Widow's remorse.]] But we'd have to apply ourselves to everyone. Because it's clear, when one is doing well and the others are doing it all wrong... we've been wrong. You – who speak so much and interrupt us so much – have you been wrong about something? Are you the people? Are you right? It's his reason – it's his reason. The raons. Maybe they're listening to the others. How did we get here? We've said it before. Let's say it again here. The statement of our group president, Miquel Iceta, the same morning as the votes, made a statement that is the position of the PSC, not a mayor here a mayor there, an activist or a sympathizer or a voter. No, no, The position of the PSC was: "This was a vote without guarantees or validity. We said from the principle: « Charges are unacceptable and we demand to put up with them. Fractures of politics and governments, and it has been seen that we are here because of the frailty of government policy; the judicialization of politics that has not brought us to a place, and a disproportionate use of the force that had never – ever – been produced. And I'm saying it because, listen, I'm not going back to saying that we're here covering this whole thing. The question that we need to ask ourselves is clear: is it a commission of inquiry to look back or elections and proposals to look forward? More toilets – what do they propose to us in this motion for a resolution – or solutions and choices? They make choices. They've already answered us. Do you know who answered us? Not us, President Torra. President Tora has replied that we must go to elections. Therefore, if it is up to us to go to elections and to pass the page – when we hear it – why are we being presented with this motion for a resolution? Plus, it'll be a... as you know perfectly well, you know what they'll say in this committee. You know what came out of the light in court proceedings in the different debates we had, the one that came out in the media... won't come out any more information. They will reaffirm even more in their positions, there won't be all the voices – you know perfectly well – and it won't be a debate like we have to do. Therefore, they have written conclusions. We won't go into toilets, disqualifications and confrontations. The time has come to find a way forward and to leave unilateral lives, which are impossible and failed. Do you want to help the dialyx? The presidents today are giving an exhibition of what the dialect is. And you'll forgive me, but I also want to make an incision. To the commons, I... – you will forgive me, without creating any kind of controversy – but I do not understand you. I understand that you are taking part in a committee of inquiry, but I do not understand that you sign a motion for a resolution here – it has been seen – it is said that they are democracy. Are you the democracy, too? Are you the people's see, too? Enter a frontalist independentist rhetoric, which I believe we should not and should not – I believe – share. So I wouldn't want to be in a debate space where everyone's not called on to participate, okay? So, I don't know... And you take, obviously, also with the speech you made here today, a lot of the independence rhetoric you've always fought. Therefore, we want to live and debate about coexistence, about understanding, about convincing, also about as covenant, about as yielding, and we want to do so with you. [[the orator assigns the left sector of the hemicicle]] Because we have people we appreciate, we have people we know and we share many ideas and we want to do so with you, with the citizens' and the People's Party's partners. This board of inquiry, as I said, will not be used for this. We have open court cases for police charges. Therefore, you will not come to make judgments and will not replace the feelings to come. Therefore, we will not reap or participate in strategies to continue digging trenches and drills that will cause us even more, or face us even more, and condemn us to a path of no return. We're in time to change things, we're in time to do different things. A new commission of inquiry has already been discussed here about the 155th – to talk more about the monotheme, to talk..., where only you will participate, will not be used to advance, and we can move forward, we can look forward. We can overcome this situation and we can say enough, that there is enough. We are able to make more elaborate speeches or reflections than the speech that followed, which was learned two years ago and which continue to repeat without any modification. And Catalan politics is becoming a trinxadora of politics and reflection, because to yourselves, when they change the official speech, what happens to them? That they are, that they accuse them of traitors and there will be no place, there won't be enough space to put a list of all traitors in the country. So maybe the country's gonna have to do it with all the people you think about and all these traitors in your country. It's been 40 years and now it's no different. Therefore, immense pain the U of October and immense pain that will accompany us all our lives. A historical error that must not be repeated, but, above all, it will still be more painful if we continue to do so for more years. We're waiting to go over the page and open a new stage...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.23.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.24.0	... – I finish, President–, counting on everyone and no more toilets. This commission is not a dialect, for us this commission is more toilets. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it has the word deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.26.0	Thank you, President. Directly from the escho and very briefly, to convey our vote denied the constitution of this commission for two reasons. The first is that this commission, exactly like the 155 Commission, has a strictly propagandistic vocation. Do not adjust, neither the previous nor this, to the basic principles to be governed by an investigation commission. The second reason is the following: look, democracy – and it is a fundamental principle that is sometimes oblivious – whether you like it or not, the forces and organs of security have that which is said to be the monopoly of the legitimate use of force and, only a judge – only a judge – can determine whether someone is temporarily out of bounds or, even so, whether it is involved in institutional violence, a concept that you make serve in an absolutely frivolous manner. Why? Because from the moment the rhetoric is accepted, according to which the legislative power, we can say, we can pronounce ourselves and determine whether there is institutional rape, we can also accept the rhetoric of the UPC when it follows that last October the Government of Catalonia was a repressive, fascist government and that the Mosso d'Esquadra behaved like a Feixist and repressive security thing. And this is the final question. You think that these investigative committee games are full of audacity and that, in Madrid, people are very concerned. I can already tell you that, in Madrid, this commission will go unnoticed, rebutted with a deep indifference, it will only do a few small things. And, on the other hand, they are opening the door, with their rhetoric, to which is constantly discredited, for example, the Squadron Mosses, which are also a force and a security body – in this case, from Catalonia. Therefore, they always end up the same; they think that they harm those who, and those who end up discrediting, are the Catalan institutions of their own, which is what has passed to the length of seven years and is the only balance that the process has: the contempt of the Catalan institutions, the contempt of the public debate in Catalonia and, ultimately, a democratic degradation that only holds you responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.27.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. Civit, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.28.0	Yes, for allusions, to Mr Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.29.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.30.0	All right, thank you. Mr Ordeig, certainly, as we have already acknowledged, we have made many mistakes, but I would like to ask your parliamentary group a question: whether it was a mistake to vote in favour of the 155, whether it was a mistake to decorate police officers who attacked voters of the First of October for free. Therefore, we do a lot of self-criticism; it is not enough, surely, but everyone should not do it. And I would like to take another opportunity to invite you, in the same way that we invite you to the dialogue table with the Spanish Government, between two governments, the Generality and the Government of the State, and also invite you to participate in this table, because as you said, everyone is invited to do so. So I hope they do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.31.0	Congressman, thank you. [[Óscar Ordeig i Molist asks to speak.]] Mr. Ordeig, 30 seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.32.0	Yes, thank you, President. Civic, I like you asking me this question. [[The timer laughs.]] Listen, I'll just tell you, I'll answer you a little bit with all my reflection. Here we have heard "botxins," "our democracy," "listen, Spain," "a curious expression," "a bit of state. From the lords of Ciutadans: the meeting of today's presidents is a "besamanos," "coupista, "pachanga" – this one still hadn't felt it. And then the CUP, asking respect – you also curiosities –; some carrying pots; the others who are complaining that they bring material here to the Faristol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.33.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.34.0	So, listen, so we can't go on, call a new stage. You have to decide which band you're from. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.35.0	Let's vote on the Proposal for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry into institutional violence during the celebration of the U of October referendum. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 74 votes to 57, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of government action]] [[302-0180/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion to ask the Government about the balance of government action, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. You have the word, to introduce you, Mr Ferran Pedret. When he wants to. [[Long break.]] MPs and MPs, please, leave the hemicicle in silence, if they have to do so... just to respect the deputy's word that's at the Faristol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.36.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Well, we present the following motion to the inquiry that we did a few days ago to the Government on the balance of government action not strictly in the past year, but in the conjunction of its mandate, which we can now say ends. And we say it a long time ago from opposition groups and, in particular, from the Socialist Group and Forward Units, that the government did not seem to have the courage to continue its mandate. Finally, the President of the Generality certifies this in a public appearance through which he informs us that, in the fund, he feels disqualified, in part, by actions of the Presidency of the Parliament, in part, surely, by actions of his governing partners and that he considers that the Government no longer has a shared project, does not have a shared strategy, that the legislature, in the fund, is exhausted. Well, let's just celebrate this diagnosis, and what happens is that we think it's a little late. And a little late up there because the fact that this government did not have an idea – it did not promote initiatives – was already noticed a long time ago and the strategic disagreements between partners were also noticed a lot. And the consequences, obviously, go beyond politics and pressure-holders; the consequences have been paid by the country's conjunction, by the citizens and citizens of Catalonia, and especially – let me tell you – by the popular and working classes of the country that have seen them as at a time of economic growth in which they could have taken advantage to reverse the effects of both the crisis and the retail policies, the government's inaction – the government's desire – has made it grow and, therefore, reinforce the consequences of the economic crisis on the country's conjunction of the popular and working classes. And, therefore, it is especially necessary that we make this criticism. And, besides, it is not only that this has been a bad government if we analyze it from the point of view of management or political orientation for what it does to social policies, economics, its view on public services, etc. It is that – from our perspective, obviously – it is also a bad government as it is not able to see it beyond the people it wants to represent, as it pushes forward the political project of those who voted for it. That is to say, all governments, of course, have a certain political orientation, and all have the possibility of trying hard to finish their political agenda, but what the government can afford is to ignore the principle of reality, it is to ignore the distribution of preferences respect as sensitive issues as the secession of Catalonia respects the rest of Spain to Catalan society. This can be done from the top of my head. And this has been a government that until after its days – I'm afraid – is denied seeing the other half of Catalans. We have asked them more than once – I have told them myself from here, from the Faristol – that they look at us, that they see us to whom we do not share the independence project; that we are very diverse, too, they are not unified in a homogeneous whole, much so that in the independence rhetoric it is about the block of 155, unionism, etc. No, no, it's a lot more diverse and plural than that. As we recognize, there has also been a diversity and multiplicity of ideological and plantation in the independence camp. You're going back to a label, you're going back to a homogeneous, reporting mass, and you're going to see that you can't see us, that you can't talk to us. And that's a question that especially affects us, and that I think, moreover, disqualifies the government politically. In the youth, we try to urge the government to do something else. We urge the Government of the Government of Catalonia to resume the dialogue with the Government of Spain, through multilateral and bilateral agencies. We urge the President of the Government of the Generality to take into account the diversity of opinions expressed in the space of the dialect and which are expressed in the Parliament as well as any dialogue that may be held with the Government of Spain. And we see he's denying it. We see that – as we say, as we fear – until after his days the President of the Generality – after his days as President, of course, continues to testify to the maximalistic options of a certain political adventure, very characteristic of the middle classes, and we believe that this is binding the country, which is deepening in the trenches that separate us. And we are calling for a new stage in which this is left behind. We're complaining about a new stage in which we're not all so obsessed with seeing who's encapsulating one of the two poles in this conflict, but we're all compromised with the task of overcoming this conflict. Because in order to overcome this conflict, it will not be possible to defeat one half of the country or the other, but one half of the country will have to agree that they are plural and diverse and will have to come to some kind of compromise that, this yes, will be historic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the first word, the deputy Marta Ribas, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.38.0	Well, good morning. This young man poses the need for what we have been demanding for a long time, that is to put an end to repression and return to politics and, therefore, to the dialogue. We are truly happy that the new government of the State has put in place for this and that Mr. Pedro Sánchez – probably due to need – has led to a real will of dialogue and not the one who had been defending during the election campaign. I think it's important to take advantage of this window of opportunity. I think it's important that the new government, historic, coalition, left-wing state continues in this line and that I think it's important that now the Catalan forces also act in consequence to open this new stage, this new decade, from politics, from dialing politics, from ending justice and ending repression. The new Spanish Government has already given clear signs – with facts, not with words – of this will: change of attorney general, recognition of nine delegations to the foreigner of the Government of the Generality, proposal to touch the sedition in the Criminal Code, proposal that, you know, we have defended ourselves, our candidate Jaume Asens. It met bilaterally today from President Pedro Sánchez to the Palau of the Generalitat with the President of the Generalitat. And we could say a few more. I think it is absolutely credible that the new government of the State wants to dialogue, political volition, a new stage, and that means ending the judicial process and ending the repression. Therefore, now that the forces of the Government of the Generality also remain in this sense, at this new stage. These facts, these novelties, these signs shown by the Government of the State bring light and air to look forward to a start of a new year, a new decade, but also to make more manifest than the reason for which the current majority exists in Catalonia has been outdated. This parliamentary majority that is gathering this Government of the Generality is no longer in line with the new political moment, with the new decade, and with the new hope that the citizenry has of solutions. And, therefore – and this is the other element that appears in this young man – elections are scheduled as soon as possible. The government's project is exhausted, it's failed, we share it in this sense with the analysis of what it does at this point in the Socialists' motion. Calen élections, but what we can't afford is that because there is this political gap, still to finish solving, we leave Catalonia a year more without any presuppositions that guarantee the shielding of its basic rights. And, therefore, we have said this forcefully over the last few months: they keep assumptions and they keep elections. And if there are immediate elections, as the Socialist Party defends, there will be no assumptions for the year 2020 that will actually be enforceable by the year 2020; there will be no sufficient resources for the 2020-2021 school year to guarantee more scholarships covered in a 70_per_cent; money for schools in Bressol, that there was no so far, zero_euros and we move to 70_millions; the professional enough to the school to set aside the inclusive school decree; or the 30_per_cent reduction in university fees. This is not possible with immediate elections, without presuppositions already approved and in force. That is why our concern – which was not accepted by the Socialist Group at the end of the day – is why we abstain at the end of the day, because we do want elections as soon as possible, but there has been an approval of assumptions in this Parliament and, therefore, we shield public services for citizens and then we have a government that manages them as well as making assumptions much better by 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group and has the word of Congresswoman Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.40.0	Thank you. Good morning, everybody. We have here today a P.C.P. motion that we could say is a little outdated. There might be the will to say: "It was up to us to discuss it in another ple, but we understand that this young man was already born obsolete. Its first point was already obsolete, because when we were told that the President of the Generality convened the dialog table, it had already developed to bring all of us to the dialog space, to those parties that here have parliamentary representation and want to speak and listen. Tanmateix knows that in this table there were the usual absences: Ciutadans, PP and CUP. So he's got us thinking about it. It is always curious that you are the ones who are insisting on the Government of the Generality to resume the dialogue with the Government of Spain. Maybe we need to freshen up the memory, 'cause it wasn't the government of the generality that left this dialog, was it? It wasn't President Torra who assumed he didn't take the phone from President Sánchez. It was not the Government of the Generality to which two elections and fifty-two deputies of Vox were heated to assume that there is no alternative to the dialect. His conviction with the dialog is so low that the same PSOE disallowed the first point of his motion when he tried to escape from the dialog table with the most ordinary excuse possible. If we have a dialog table today, it's not the will of the PSOE or the PSC, nor to have a fantastic progressive coalition. If today we have a dialogue is for the social and electoral strength of independence, the strength that the votes will give to the Republican Left. Because if there is a dialog, it is not thanks to you, they have done nothing for the dialog, Mr. Iceta, Mrs. Granados, more quickly to the contrary. The warranty of the dialog is not these motions. The guarantee is to have us sitting in a table from the power of the ballot boxes. Events have also made other points of your youth obsolete. As the legislature in Madrid begins, it is ridiculous to speak of a need for civil reconciliation in Catalonia. It is not in Catalonia where a deputy had to sleep in a secret location for threats of the extreme right to his vote. It is not in Catalonia where a political party has been blocking state institutions for years to maintain a judicial majority that does not have a democratic majority. It is not the Parliament of Catalonia where we find that the third political force is the extreme right. Where is your self-criticism for the authoritarian excesses of the Spanish State? Why has independence not made much of self-criticism, despite repression and that whatever we say can be used against us: judges at the National Court, judges at the Supreme Court, judges at the Supreme Court, courts of accounts; politics or imposition of political ideas through the courts? Despite all this we have been able to have a complex debate. The past 28th, for a short time, the policy of authoritarian courts returned to this Parliament, and, at a miserable time, Mrs Roldán and Mr Carrizosa came to question the Vice-President and today MEPs, Mr Junqueras, but they left immediately. They only threw up hostility, but never an active listening_gram, a sad gesture but marginally more valuable than that of the PSC, which will not even come. There is no colour in it; we have no colour in it, neither taronja nor red. We offer them active escort, the most powerful tool to do politics. They had an opportunity, in an institutional, legal environment, to confront political ideas and ideas. Why weren't they there? If you want to talk about reconciliation, start, here and today, to denounce this authoritarian abuse, this general cause against independence. We are already sitting at the table of the dialog recognizing a political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. I ask you, Mr. Iceta, or the PSC: what are you going to do now with this great opportunity? Will they choose, honoring the motto of a new progressive and transformative government, the record of their rightful rightful rightful voice or the return to white and black TV weather, the "slaves of the State and start us when they don't like our ideas? They put them, as Marta Rovira told us the other day, to dialogue. But first we have to take a path; a path that, still marked by repression, doesn't see everyone alike. Dialogue, do it. In Catalan DNA, it's always there. Then you take this witness. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of MP Elsa Artadi, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.42.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. In fact, the coincidence has caused us to see this young man the same morning that President Torra and Pedro Sánchez met; a meeting that has been going on for many months, because until now Pedro Sánchez preferred to take the "juice and say that a friend had come out to him who was calling him instead of taking his phone to the President of Catalonia." [[Greetings.]] I do not know what the Socialists will think about these disrespects towards our institutions. I guess after 155, it's all gone. Let us hope that this gathering will serve for something, because to take pictures and meetings of courtesy sure that Pedro Sánchez finds other people on this visit to Barcelona. We have a challenge, which is the solution to the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State, and we have a reality, and it is that so far both the PP and the PSOE have applied a single recipe: police and judges. The same as Mariano Rajoy does Pedro Sánchez. And with this reality we are in the situation of trying to find a negotiating table another time. And I emphasize another time, because now it's just a year ago we were in the same situation, February 2019, when you preferred to go to elections before addressing the conflict. Then, a year ago, we talked about the recognition of a political conflict; then, a year ago, we discussed the format of the table, and then, a year ago, we felt the threat: if there is no presumption of the State, there is nothing to negotiate. Just the same. Let's hope this time you're up. We are firmly committed, in seeking dialogue and negotiation, we have always been, but we recognize that we have serious doubts about a negotiating table that came up late, that the term has already passed, from Pedro Sánchez's speeches to the investiture of the Constitution, from the statements of Minister Calvo last week, not to mention the vow of cancellation and recovery of meetings, while Jaume Asens certainly applauds. On the 15th generation, President Torra, willingly working on this negotiating table, brought together the main independent actors in Palau. Because we, from Juntes to Catalunya, think that it should have all started in this space that represents all independence. We understand that no one has the legitimacy to act in the name of all independence. And, please, we're still serious and you don't always want to be on both sides of the table, because I don't expect Pedro Sánchez to trick the CUP or Junts for Catalonia to know what we think before we take the table presumably representing all those who consider us Spanish. Neither is the reductionism that the table needs to be talked about. We understand that the table needs to talk about how we resolve the conflict. And that day, in Palau, the 15th generation, we all agreed: the only way to solve 'the exercise of the right to self-determination and the fi of repression; for sure, there is 80_percent of the city in Catalonia. And two alerts. From Junts per Catalunya we want to be transparent with what passes in this table, we do not want to generate frustrations, we do not want to generate confusion, which only leads to further demobilizing the city. And the second. Together for Catalonia we believe that it was a mistake to invest Pedro Sánchez, that this is a little stronger for us, that today we are less strong than before the 7th generation, because holders of the international press say that independence invests Pedro Sánchez send a false signal that things have changed, when that is not the case. Let's hope the trading table doesn't do the same. On the Council for the Republic and the Assembly of Elects, which makes a evening reference to its young man, I understand that at the PSC they are annoyed because it reminds them that the same repressors with which you want to load Catalan institutions cannot apply them, because for many intents that you have done to stop the work of exile you have not succeeded. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Ponsatí, who yesterday collected her credentials as an MEP. [[Greetings.]] It also reminds you that the U of October existed, that it was a referendum, that there is a president and a legitimate government, that you did it in an undemocratic way and that they pull out of your 155 – the 155 of the PSC also – there is the prison and exile and that you certainly continue to apply repression. And two very quick points to other references that I've made. Respect for the agreements reached in this Parliament I would like to say that President Torra is a Member of this House, as a majority on the 4th generation ratified, according to Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the popular vote of 21 December. And second of all, he wasn't in such a hurry to go to elections. This will be said by President Torra the moment he thinks he is right. You are not in such a hurry to go fishing for these Citizen votes, that it is already curious that progressism and the Catalanism of the left have a border with Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the word the deputy Ignacio Martín, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.44.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we have a SCP movement here to talk about government action – the Socialist Party. And I believe that from this point of view, there is a question that is obvious, that the action of the government, the action of the government Torra, has been simply harmful to Catalonia. And in this sense, it seems that even the Socialist Party agrees. In fact, a few days ago, we met the survey of the Generality's Center of Studies in which they told us that only 1.6_percent of the citizens of Catalonia consider that the Government Torra solves the people's problems. Thus, there is a unanimous practice among the citizens of Catalonia about the disaster that the Government of Torra has caused for the citizens of Catalonia and, ultimately, for the material interests of Catalans. Mr. Torra has entered on his own merits into the history of bad government. But I don't think anyone doubts that anymore. Mr Torra is no longer a Member of this Chamber because he is disqualified by a final judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, and therefore, according to the Statute, he cannot continue to be President of the Generalitat. Let us say, in any case, that your condition is at least fragile, if not precarious. However, President Sánchez has decided to rehabilitate him by meeting in Barcelona today with him, as if Torra were an impassable president, as if he were a president with all those of the law and as if nothing had happened here, as if the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia had not issued a judgment, as if the Central Electoral Board had not said how to apply the, as if the Supreme Court had not said..., had endorsed the proposal of the Central Electoral Board, in short, as if all our democratic institutionality served absolutely nothing when Mr Sánchez had the possibility to remain in the Moncloa. From this point of view, I would like to point out the enormous irresponsibility of Mr Sánchez, who prefers to delegitimize our institutions, our democratic rule of law and thus abandon the constitutionalists once again, rather than bother their governing partners. It is certainly disappointing to attend the PSOE's umpteenth closure in front of those who have demonstrated overwhelmingly that they despise our framework of coexistence and our sense of belonging to Catalonia, Spain and Europe. Unfortunately, this is not the first time socialists have done it. It is therefore clear that socialists recognize what is happening in Catalonia. What is happening, the problem, is that it is clear that the socialists have decided that they have nothing to do about it, they have decided that the most important thing is that the nationalists will once again admit to them in the nationalist consensus of which they were part before the bitter days of 6 and 7 September 2017, and to which they want to return, to the nationalist consensus, to that little hole that they have always had, making them, dancing the water to the nationalists and ignoring the constitutionalists and those Catalans that we feel Catalan, Spanish and European. That is the way of proceeding of the Socialist Party, it was always before September 6 and 7 of 17 and it is now again. With its decisions and positions over the past few months, the PSC is begging for this little hole. And we see it in many decisions; one, Mr. Sánchez's decision to meet today with Mr. Torra, who shortly before interested in his vows for the investiture or the agreement with his governing partner, Esquerra Republicana, defined as the Le Pen of Spanish politics, surely a much fairer and much more accurate description of what Mr. Torra is, according to his writings. On the other hand, I would like to point out something else, another aspect which I am extremely concerned about what the Socialist Party is doing these days. On Monday a supposedly institutional declaration is presented in this Parliament in which the commons, the separatist parties and the PSC speak about the process, what they call the peace process in the Basque Country, about the situation in the Basque Country, in which they claim the need to deepen mutual recognition among the different victims of the conflict. But what conflict or what eight-quarters, gentlemen of the PSC? What conflict are they talking about? What mutual recognition of the victims? In the Basque Country there have been for forty years murderers who killed and victims, respectable politicians who died. [[Greetings.]] Gentlemen of the PSC, I would ask you to stop adopting the language of the nationalists, to assume your story to govern, to continue to rule in Spain, and perhaps in a while to reshape a tripartite as you did between 2003 and 2010. But I remind you that in those years – adopting the bellicose language and the insolidary rhetoric of the nationalists – only favored the fragmentation of Spain, the sentimental separation between Catalans and, ultimately, a process that was, then, the separatist process. I remember well and sadly Mr Montilla led a demonstration against the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the Statute of Autonomy where Mr Montilla was already initiating the delegitimization of the institutions of our rule of law, which is at the basis of the separatist process that the separatist parties have followed. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, what you are doing is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. And I would ask you to be responsible and stop dancing the water to the separatist parties. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of Deputy Carles Riera, of the Subgroup of the Constituent CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.46.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man is extemporaneous. Elections have already been announced and today, probably, Torra and Sánchez will talk about time, because of self-determination and amnesty, Mr. Sánchez has already said that neither talk nor talk about it. He is also a young man who talks to us about dialogue with the Spanish Government and about returning to the normality of institutional relations in the constitutional and state frameworks, insisting on the supposed civil conflict in Catalan society and rejecting the possibility of setting up new institutions, such as the Assembly of Elects, which can represent other legitimacys of popular sovereignty. And, on the other hand, they denounce the government's inaction and end up in the necessary call for elections. You, as the commons, have a priority: to recover normality and institutional stability in the framework of the Constitution and the Statute, and of the monarchy, and want to do so, as at least, to three bands: State, city of Barcelona and Generality. And so renew the political conflict between Catalonia and the State to its neutrality or, in the best of cases, to an autonomous reform, while repression continues, and giving up the right to self-determination. Coming from the PSC doesn't surprise us, it's consistent with its program, but coming from the commons doesn't stop surprising us. And we have to say that today in Podemos and the commons we don't recognize that party that wanted to drop the rule, but rather a party that is supporting all institutional levels. Mirin, we also believe that this government has failed – neither restitution, nor constitution, nor self-determination, nor sovereignty, nor public policies that repair the stars of the crisis and restore social justice – but we will not work to ensure that the Spanish courts decide when and how the end of this government will be, nor will we participate in political operations that have as a result the end of this legislature in pursuit of a new cycle of autonomous normality, of renunciation of the right to independence and of social, civil and political rights and threats to repression. That's why we're voting against this young man. In their hands, PSC and common, now governing the State, are creating favorable conditions for this democratic resolution of the conflict. Now that they are ruling, they have those guarantees for the celebration of a self-determination referendum that the State has denied the U of October by mediating repression. Now that they're ruling, they're stunning the repression. At the same time, we have already begun to seek the path of unilaterality and are willing to follow it until the last consequences. It's a matter of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández, of the Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.48.0	Thank you, President. Well, this Socialist Party movement has two distinct parts: a first, where there is a demand for that which in euphemistic expression speaks of "we have spaces of dialog, and a second part, more sensible, where there is a series of concrete demands of reconciliation and coexistence to the Government of Catalonia. On the first part, that of the dialog spaces, the dialog table, etc., we will only convey one thing that justifies our negative vote: Mr Gabriel Rufián explained, with his usual delicacy, exactly the details of the theme of this dialog space. He said it would be about amnesty, self-determination, repression and political prisoners. He was not disqualified for Mr. Pedro Sánchez. Therefore, the conclusion that we can extrude from it is that it is obvious that opacity, as at least, if not directly unconstitutionality, will preside over this dialog space. So we can't add up to anything. With regard to points 3, 4, 5, which are only five points, the separate motion for a vote would be advanced. I think the most operative thing would be to vote for the five points separately, because there have been changes in voting positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the new word the deputy Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.50.0	Thank you, counselors, deputies and deputies. We have reached a deal with the Catalonian Group in Comú We can and, therefore, this deal is incorporated as at point 2 of the motion and, finally, we do not assume the papers that the Republican Group and Juntes Group pose for Catalunya, as it should not foreign anyone. Look, there's been a lot of talk, the truth is it costs at this time to replicate them all. Mr. White Martin, what things do you say, Mr. White Martin, as we must see! [[Widow's remorse.]] It is that the People's Party of Catalonia has won it in moderation and speech content in a very clear way. You are no longer competing with the People's Right Party, you are competing with the speech of the extreme right. It's like, grabbing and coming here to retreat the socialists and throwing them in the face of the victims of ETA's terrorism, it's from a bass who I think simply doesn't deserve to give it back. [[Some applause.]] I'm leaving him, 'cause I'm rumií, huh? According to the term, Mrs. Caula, look, because, well, of Mrs. Artadi we have the typical least and the typical blind respect the half of the country, with you wrapped up this time, but the least and blind respect the half of the country we have, in general, whenever you speak Together for Catalonia. But, Mrs. Caula, we were hoping for something more than the Republican Left, surely naive as we are. But you, of the many things that you have said that we can replicate it, there is one that I would like to say to you: you frivolized with the absence of a conflict here, that you say that we invent each other, that it is much worse in Madrid, etc. Look, this is where his many parties, too, are banditized day after day, no; this is where he has painted death threatening elected officers, his party, and also non-independence parties, and this is where there are elected officers who must be escorted by the police and should not be escorted. Therefore, when you deny the existence of a conflict, when you deny the existence of a problem of coexistence, you need to understand how well the half of the country feels. So they're also going on about this. [[Some applause. Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.51.0	Yes, say'm, Mr. Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.52.0	For Mr Pedret's allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.53.0	Thirty seconds, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.54.0	Mr Pedret, you will excuse me, it seems to me a huge disrespect that you tell me to what things they make you say. I say what I like about this chamber, logically according to what is the ideal of my party, but according to my convictions. To me personally, that the Socialist Party of Catalonia signs an institutional declaration purportedly with separatist parties and with the commons, in which it makes an abject equidistance between the victims of terrorism in the Basque Country and their victims seems absolutely entrepreneurship. Therefore, I am here to denounce the way the Socialist Party assumes language and adopts the forms of separatist parties. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. A separate vote has been requested from all five points in the House, has it not? Yeah? [[Pause.]] That's it. All right. Well, then, let's get to the vote on the motion point by point. Let's start with the first point. The vote begins. The first point was rejected by 24 votes in favour, 108 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. The second point was rejected by 24 votes in favour, 108 against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 64 votes in favour, 68 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 60 votes to 68, with 4 abstentions. And we vote, finally, point 5 and later on this motion. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 57 votes to 68, with 7 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the scale of a year of inaction]] [[302-00186/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the balance of a year of inaction, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word of the deputy Ignacio Martín. [[Long break.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.56.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. I'll see if I can remember what they told me in my group to say. (Laughter.) I'm going to make an effort not to get out of the script and not say anything inappropriate so then they can throw me out of my ears, Mr. Pedret. Beyond the immense lack of respect that seems to me that criterion of lack of confidence in the possibilities of a partner and, above all, the claim that some of us are not able to think for ourselves, Mr Pedret I tell you that, of course in my group, in Citizens, we will never dance to the son that marks us separatist parties, as the PSC has done all these years. (Applause.) Look, to some, our political awakening, our interest in politics comes, precisely, from a few years in which we recently left, or almost still immersed in adolescence, we saw how a Party of the Socialists of Catalonia, a party that should ensure the general interest of Spain, a party that should ensure solidarity between Spaniards, a party that should ensure the collective project that is Spain and that should always be committed to the unity of Spain, was delivered to the hands of Esquerra Republicana, a party that legitimately wants to destroy that unity, which legitimately wants to end the collective project of Spain. A party that, in addition to all that, has some ideas because – as its leader, Mr. Junqueras, and other leaders, such as Mr. Heribert Barrera, has shown – clearly Hispanic and clearly scornful with the rest of the Spaniards. You, however, were pleased to place the Government of the Generalitat in the hands of this party. Listen, look, I'm telling you with the less sour tone, the less dark tone I'm capable of, and I certainly don't think you can accuse me of either aggressiveness or saying one word louder than another. But, of course, for many citizens of Catalonia what has happened all these years in Catalonia is a real shame. You have abandoned the constitutionalists of Catalonia to put themselves in the hands of the nationalist parties which, in addition, distribute catalanity cards and you beg, practically on your knees, to let them re-enter the nationalist consensus, to once again abandon the constitutionalists of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] The fact that Mr Sánchez is meeting today with Mr Torra, former President Torra, is the most important demonstration of this. Mr. Torra is disqualified for justice. Mr. Torra is disqualified by the Supreme Court, by the Central Electoral Board, by the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, by all the other institutions, and you, far from accepting that situation of Mr. Torra, what you do is to rehabilitate him for his mere electoral interest, for his spurious electoral interest. From this point of view, I believe it is important to point out that this year – or these two years of Torra government – have been a real calamity for Catalans. Extreme poverty continues to grow in Catalonia. Children who study in barracks in Catalonia continue to be the largest number of all Spanish autonomous communities. The number of people on dependency lists in Catalonia remains the largest in Spain. And this despite the fact that we have been talking for two years about absolutely Byzantine issues that have nothing to do with or any importance to the citizens of Catalonia as a whole. People want their problems solved. That is why the 1,6_per_cent of the citizens of Catalonia is the support that this government has for its management. The Socialist Party continues to call for a platform and show that absolutely nothing has happened, that Mr Torra's party or Mr Junqueras' party are perfectly reliable partners, perfectly reliable and people, let us say, very committed to institutional loyalty. I believe that it is fundamental – fundamental – that the citizens of Catalonia know that this government is not going anywhere, that it is absolutely unsustainable, and that the years of process have condemned us to an absolute..., an institutional paralysis that has no precedent in any government of other autonomous communities or our nearest democratic environment. Unfortunately, this year of Mr Torra's paralysis has condemned the citizens of Catalonia to a tremendous, damaging and surely potentially devastating isolation for the future of Catalans. Isolation with the rest of Spain and isolation with the rest of the world. A few years ago, even having nationalist rulers, the president of the Generalitat was received by international institutions, by international governments, almost with honors as head of state, because he was the president of an autonomous community that was the spearhead of Spain. Now, no one in the rest of the world receives the President of the Generalitat. And of course, the rest of Spain, the rest of the autonomous communities, see with enormous mistrust and uneasiness a character like Mr. Torra, who systematically insults the rest of the Spaniards, a person like Mr. Torra, who does, in short, generate division in Catalonia and confrontation with the rest of Spain. So this year of Torra government is a government of paralysis, of disgovernment and a government that leads us to disaster. Stop bleaching, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, this disaster that the separatist parties have led us to. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.57.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.58.0	President, Councillor, Members and Members, I take good note that Mr Martín Blanco has autonomy of voluntarity and appropriate criteria, obviously. What happens is that there is a certain feeling, that it happens whenever I speak to some members of the Ciutadans Group, that there is a very well-established line of argument collectively and a huge difficulty to get out of the slogan and the slogan. And that I don't think I'm talking about the abilities of each school, but about a political decision. And I find it hard, especially, that Mr. Martín Blanco falls into this, because I believe that the content – not the form – of what he said in the previous intervention, and also part of the present, has more to see with a fist for an electoral space than with what we have felt to Mr. Martín Blanco in this very Parliament. Now, it's a decision that they perfectly and legitimately can make, but to me it seems, frankly, that they are wrong and that, if anyone has abandoned the non-independence voters of this country after having obtained an extraordinary electoral success, it's Ciutadans – it's Ciutadans. You sure don't have that feeling, sure you'll tell me otherwise, but I think there are a lot of people who have felt that the vote they made in Ciuta in that 21st of December 2017_was later badly employed, was futile, was not useful for what had been done. It is my perception, I may be mistaken, but I remember how, with much more conviction, because the times were a few others, there were porters from Ciutadans, today candidates..., candidate, go, from Ciutadans who said to us: "They will see how the next elections will make them worse and to us much better. They don't say it anymore, I don't know why, but they don't say it anymore. In any case, our perception is that they haven't been able to make themselves useful. Certainly speaking of Ciutadans' vote – and before I had had time to say it, Mrs. Artadi – when Mrs. Artadi said: "What are you curious that Ciutadans is bordering on socialists or that socialists are bordering on... – Socialists and the commons are also bordering on Ciutadans – now it is not, Mrs. Artadi, but I am sure that there will be a group companion – who is unaware of the country, who is unaware of the popular and working classes of the country and of the working bars of the country! Is it that they haven't seen who the election results have evolved in many of these barrels? They are barrels that have passed from the king to the Taronja, to the Morat, to the king another time... That each one does the analysis that he wants to do on this, but I think he also says something about the country and the distribution of preferences respects the question of secession. And who wants to ignore it and title it all, quite simply... as if everyone has done a lot of tips, so he's going to be very wrong in this country's analysis. Therefore, yes, indeed, we also legitimately aspire to regain the trust of many people of the popular and working classes who voted all their lives on the left, it was the PSU, it was the PSC, and that at a certain time made a vote for Ciutadan because he believed that it was the paper that more clearly faced independence. But it's us – I obviously reject the approach that makes us – we don't dance water to anyone. We have our own position, we have the autonomy of our political project, which is a political project that is Catalan, that is federalist and that is socialist. And we haven't moved here. The country is, it's moved a lot, and we've lost support, huh? For keeping us on this bet. Frankly, we think that when we come to the solution that we are going through, we will be able to find solutions that will be very – if they are not identical – as we have been proposing over the past few years. But, of course, from the conception of the dial that consists of, from the independence camp, in which from the beginning, let's say it, and recognize how it results, according to this dial, all the highest positions, which, therefore, is a position that we understand with little predisposition to a real dial, or from a perception of the dial, or to meet, that consists in claudiating, kissing the hand... We already appreciate, from the start, that there has been no use of more rough expressions than we have ever been used in the networks or with homophobs, right? Like putting your pants down and stuff like that; we're grateful they didn't do it, even though they do. No, no, get together is this: think that, with those who think in a different way, however long you think, you must get together, especially if they represent the Government of the Government of Catalonia institutionally. That the approach you make – I understand that with the political interest also to make a fuss, to hit the gate of the coalition government that formed in Spain –, this argument that you are no longer president is, as a minimum, very questionable legally – as a minimum. However, in any case, I have not seen that your group has been forced to take legal action, then, determined to put an end to a situation that you believe is irregular. In any case, we did not give up meeting with whomever we are, much as we repugnant – because it was done before this – the many xenophobic expressions we understand that..., and classists, which contain many of Mr. Torra's writings, respect to which he has never recanted, eh? , and, therefore, we understand that this classist and xenophobic gasophy that has written forms part of Mr. Torra's thinking. But as far as we are from the positions of others, we need to make sure to talk, because some solution will have to find everything that's going on. If it's not that you, who you're thinking about, are just trying to see if you can widen the conflict...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.59.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.60.0	...leading one of the two poles of this conflict. Not us. We've come here to overcome it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.61.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Congresswoman Susana Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.62.0	Many thanks, deputies and deputies, vice president. Well, we'll find ourselves again with a young man in whom we need to go to get back the arguments we've made before, because in the end it doesn't bring anything more, does it? We read the title, and to what you say: "Ostres! Balance of government inaction. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Because we agree that, indeed, there has been a lot of inaction on the part of this government, and we have said it many times. Many times they left Catalonia behind and did not represent all Catalonia when they went with institutional representation. Say what Mrs. Artadi says, that the President of the Generality of Catalonia only speaks with the independent entities and with the independent parties is to carry the representation only of the half of Catalonia. And we no longer ask that I talk to other parties, we are where we are, to one band another of the table; it is that as we at least talk to the unions, to the Pimec, to the business entities, to the third sector..., that I talk to someone more than the ANC and Ómnium. But no, that doesn't, this government. This government has not been produced either at the time of making laws or at the time of making assumptions; 2019 was not a success. If Isvan dropped two decrees, one had to withdraw before, the other voted against. Some of us saw how the Aragonese law fell too. So, really, at the level of productivity and government action, this government, a lot, can't get up. Now we will have some assumptions, but because there was a group, which is Catalonia in Comú Possão, which has put forward the need and responsibility with the citizenry of Catalonia, in fact – not like Ciutadans, who does not, but talks about it –, and has taken care to try to get Catalonia out of the presuppositionary blockade in which it was. And thanks to this, so yes: there will be 70_million for schools in Brazil that were not in 2019, neither to the executed nor to the king; the drop of 30_percent of university fees has been achieved, which was not in place; the deployment of the inclusive school decree will be achieved, which was not in place, and it has also been achieved by working differently, thanks to the government's forcing to work together with and with entities, the Housing Decree that we approved today in this Parliament and that has been seen, for one band, for social entities as a victory, and for another band – which is curious – for the purpose of reversing it as a backlash and as a big threat to the dark. So this is the balance of this government's inaction this year. The Ciutadans motion, obviously, wasn't about that. Obviously, Ciutadan's youth was obsessed with his obsession with maintaining a relationship, despite the fact that he was almost still carrying his contract. If we want to talk about inaction, we're talking about Ciutadans' inaction. Why is it that Citizens got in these two years of our parliamentary term here in Parliament? Re. They didn't get anything at all. Xous, soroll, crits... That's right, photos – that's right. Now, get it? Res. Nor do we have any proposals for the law, which have also presented a few and that the only one that came to the end, which was that of the Law of the Boys escorted for women victims of male violence, was dropped for all groups of this room less them; from PP to CUP: all against. And let them re-present it changing its name; let one say: "But what are you thinking? Who's Ciutadans' strategy to build this country? Captain. It is understood that at the time of polarization you went well, at the time of the electoral confrontation you went well. Now they see they're not doing well. And they've already seen what happened at the state level, they see what they're giving them. But they're wrong that they're wrong, they're wrong that they're wrong. They've stayed out of all of Catalonia's gatherings, all of them! So, they went to some municipal elections that didn't count, or they didn't count. They don't really... they don't point at the king, do they? Doesn't it really make them think that how it can be that they don't rule instead of Catalonia, instead? It's just that he thanked me for the speech of Mr Ciutadans, when we discussed the creation of the October U commission, when he said they won't get into this game. But if nobody wants them, in this game! If he reminded me of the Lord who took the Scattergories so they wouldn't accept him as his pet. It is that the thing no longer goes from Scattergories, the thing no longer goes from confrontational games, the thing goes from cooperative games, construction, the thing is that we have to get out of this escape room into which the Catalan process has converted and the blocking situation and that to get out of a escape room, if some have not done any good, what it is to collaborate, to build, to contribute. And in this town don't play. But no one's playing with you. Well, yes, the PP does, and Vox, that thanks to this they have the parental PIN in Murcia; these do play. But in Catalonia they don't think, they stay out of it, and they already see it in the result of this motion and in the result of their own elections. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Or Natialia Sánchez, so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.64.0	Good morning, all of you. Many things have already been said about the young man who presents us Ciutadans, a young man to whom we are accustomed. I would like to say again something that I have told you many times before: what a way to disapprove of your thirty-six Members. I agree with a question raised by Mr Pedret, and also... about the question of the abandonment of citizens who are not independent. This place, I think we could also do it to you, because certainly in this period, in the later period that has lived in this country, there has been an abandonment to all those people who legitimately have the right to vote than in a self-determination referendum. This abandonment is what the whole non-independence bench has done. On the question that Ciutadans raises, that Quim Torra usurps functions, that Quim Torra is not president, that Quim Torra is not deputy, attention, they say, for connivance..., because Mr Torrent, the president of the Parliament, pretends that Quim Torra is deputy. I don't know if, so much about Matrix, it's you who have stayed, because it's obvious what happened last week – very against our will – in this plenary. You have a way of working and building the stories and your messages that you have as..., are like two parallel lives: of a band, plenty of content very light questions, in this case, against the Government of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, because it is a government formed by independenceists, but then, about the real problems of the people, about those questions of education, hello, that they talk about in their youth, at the time of pressing the button, you have a very similar model of country. Don't be mistaken, because, when you speak, when it comes to talking about the public private concertation of education, you vote the same, do a defense of this concertation; when it comes to protecting public servants, you vote the same; when it comes to talking about concrete projects, like Barcelona World, you vote the same. Generally, you vote to protect extractive elites, for example, when it comes to talking about climate change. Therefore, you have this way of acting: a lot of lightness in the superficial, but in reality, in the real problems of the people, you vote the same. And so they do with so many things. I'm done. A more, very paradigmatic example that passed yesterday: they filled the mouth of talking about anti-corruption policy [[gives the acoustic signal indicating that the intervention time has expired]] – I finish, President – but what his party does to try to save the furniture is going from the hand of the most corrupt party in Europe to the proper elections. So, more and less to do. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.66.0	Thank you, President. Simply to move that the motion seems impeccable to us, it seems that I myself would have drafted it, and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.68.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, I would start with the part that the Member of the House told me that it is more of the same, because it has already been commented on; but it is curious that those who come to us most here to say that it is necessary to complete the laws, those who are the guarantors of the compliments of the laws, are of those laws that interest them. I don't know if they've just read the Quixote book that they taught us – some of them, I think, still have them – but, by the way, I'll give them another book, I'll give them another one; it's called Parliament's Rules. Article 24: "Members lose their condition for the following causes: because of the resignation presented to the Bureau – I would say that, so far, it is not... –, « for a firm court ruling – this too –, « for incapacity – you surely want to incapacitate President Torra, but the ballot boxes do not accompany them –, « for the termination of the mandate – for the moment, for the moment, not yet. Therefore, they give us lessons on how to complete the laws, but a law that should regulate us all, when it does not matter we do not comply. That's what you guys do. This competition between the right and the extreme right, the extreme right and the extreme right, the Supreme Court and the JEC, which you carry between your hands, only makes you see more repression. And more repression, I tell you, more solidarity. Look, I'm telling you, from your party, I'm surprised that it's especially you who accuse us of being a Hispanic party; you, who today, with the deputy of the PP, will do an act with French declarations, with anti-Semitic, with racists – I assume it's this right-wing tripartite that you're setting up – that this late you'll be with a person who's declared to be Franco, going to give us lessons that we're Hispanic? You? [[Greetings.]] And, besides, I'm sorry, because it's the president of my party, President Junqueras, who's the one who supported the dialogue and who's the one who's talked about us being with Spain, half of us have family all over the place. That's not confrontational. They have not fully understood anything else. And, I'm telling you, this allergy to the dial that they show us day after day – and that lately I'm assuming that the polls and having more deputies in Catalonia than the rest of Spain is making it intensify – I'm telling you, this allergy to the dial that they have will not make President Sánchez sit down at the dial table and do not repose President Torra. And since Congressman Pedret has done well, say it: this is no more than finance and dialogue, this is because I have acquired the commitments that Congressman Jove and Congresswoman Vilalta have explained to him very well; this is not more than a few rooms – which, since there is this deficiency, too –; this is because they understand and recognize the political conflict, as they have done, and that they continue to advance in the list of checks they need to do: in the anti-repressive struggle, to stop judicializing politics..., and that they will find us, and if not, then we will see everything moving forward. And finally, because the young man was talking about the scale of inaction and they left it for the last residual point, but it's part of me that I do care about. They tell us we have to rule for everyone. Yesterday, when you were ruling for everyone, especially the most vulnerable, talking about housing, where were you? Vote against. The week you see, when will we talk about the social assumptions and the university taxes that you ask for, we'll be? Vote against. And the waiting lists and all the working conditions of the workers to be recovered, what will make possible this government of Esquerra, of Juntes per Catalunya, and of the commons voting for the assumptions, you will be? Vote against. Or the barracks, or the day care centers, or the guaranteed income... So, every thing you say here that needs to be done, when you have the option to do it, what do you do? Vote against it. And the common people talk about inaction. I don't know. The election campaign, every time it's the scarecrow. When the municipalities were there, they were horrified; they were horrified this week with the Aragonese law, and if they didn't explain why they traded so many items with us to end up saying no. Don't get along. You come here, you give us lessons, you tell us that you have to rule for everyone, but at the time of truth, you can take five minutes assembling the 155th Commission, which explains that it also affected everyone. When they have the option to rule, they take care scholarships and receive subsidies to fight inequality, to give them to the bulls, to the bulls. Miri, truly, abandon this... they tell us to abandon the process. We will not give up our political project, the good government or the Catalan Republic, which I have made clear to you. And, as they ask us questions, I ask you: to abandon the path of justice, to abandon these attempts to divide us, seeking neoconvergence to make out a Republican mayor to Sitges, trying to govern the Catalan right another time, or under the presuppositions of Parliament. Abandoning this line of confrontation and prosecution, and intent on a minimally worthy project that can be confronted at the polls. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr. Francesc de Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.70.0	Thank you very much, President. Can I have a previa? [[Pause.]] Today, it is very respectful of the health symbols for the Republic, which are the health professionals who cure us and take care of the concentrations and manifestations of this country. And, therefore, we're holding a tribute to them today from the Faristol. [[Greetings.]] And I start with two figures: 948,233 votes, votes cast by men and women from Catalonia who were trusted in Junts for Catalonia and who make the very honorable Quim Torra a full member of this Parliament. And the second: 1,884,094 votes, votes represented by Members of this Parliament who decided that the Honourable Quim Torra would be the one-hundred-and-thirty-one President of the Generality of Catalonia. Because then they can look for the article, the law and the rules that they guarantee and have to protect this double condition of deputy and president. But the essential, the primal reason, that makes the democratic system have the sense of representativeness that makes us believe in democracy and universal suffrage is precisely this, the vote of people. Because these figures are the result of a deep respect for the democratic system, this Parliament and the people who trust it. They are figures, above all the second, which explain this country quite well: to agree to progress and to persist to win. Mirin, Together for Catalonia we lived with a lot of enthusiasm that passed the 30th generation of 2018, the day that should have been the day of the restoration of President Puigdemont. And only for a great generosity of the same President Puigdemont and of the determination of the deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia did we do what we best know to do: to persist, to dialogue and to agree. And we proposed Jordi Sànchez, and again the state apparatus did the brute work. And the deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia we did what we best know to do: to persist, to dialogue and to agree. And we proposed Jordi Turull, and the interference of the State and some absences, which were always hard for us to hear, made it impossible to make a second investment vote, because it was undertaken. And the deputies and the deputies of Junts for Catalonia we did what they best know how to do: persist, dialogue and compromise, and win. Because we proposed the Member Quim Torra, thanks to the 1,884,000 votes that we were able to agree, and became, as I said, president of Catalonia. And before this democratic pulcritus, before this determination, his demophobic obsession: to overthrow President Torra, to deny the strength of the group of Democrats of this country, also his voters, who made it possible for this Parliament to find us now. And if you say your voters, too, it's because when you participate in some comedians, they accept the gambling laws and, therefore, the results, and you see that that's not why the votes turn them around. They are annoyed by those who vote for the men and women of Catalonia, followed by the U of October, followed by the 21st of December; they are annoyed by those who freely believe in Catalan society, and this phobia has made, logically, that they walk towards irrelevance. With one success, we repeat that more than a fight to fuck against the ballot boxes is dedicated to doing politics, that they do politics. It has been a long time since the Junts for Catalonia warned that the sovereignty of a parliament is the last frontier of democracy. There are no small concessions to which they want to diminish this sovereignty, because it is as much as denying the value of the votes that have made possible the presence of all that we are here; of all. He doesn't feel that I'm talking about the real problems in Catalonia and they're still obsessed with the real problems. They are harassing the right to vote, they are harassing the defence and the promotion of human rights, they are harassing the European judiciary, they are harassing the international bodies that are ruling on the situation of political prisoners and exiles, they are harassing the European Parliament. There is no one at home – no one – who says to them: "Let's stop for a moment and let's stop politics? The real one, the one to stay, the one to be on the coast of the country, from the Pyrenees to the Delta, from the Plana de Vic to the metropolitan area of Barcelona, the one that goes from the Seu Vella de Lleida to the Pont de Pedra de Girona. We are discussing some assumptions for liability, to give response to these urgent needs of a company offered for an unbearable tax deficit. They are not the assumptions that we would want together for Catalonia, nor are they the assumptions that would want Republican Left, they are not the assumptions that would want the commons, but that thanks to this responsibility, this dialog and this willingness, President Torra has made his own. You want to talk? Do you want to do politics? A lot of us are afraid we won't. And this is the palm evidence of his fracs, because without posters, no criticism, no conflict, no noise and no noise, there is nothing left of Ciutadans, nothing, like nothing left of this PR that they present today and to which we will vote against. Or, yes, it remains, its inability to make political. Thank you. [[Greetings. Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.71.0	Say'm, Mr. Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.72.0	Yes, President, for allusions, in accordance with Article 87(1) of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.73.0	Thirty seconds. [[Widow's remorse.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.74.0	Yes, they are for the allusions made by Mrs. Spigares. Look, Mrs. Spigares, I'm late to attend an actual act of presenting a book. [[remorse of the voice]] You've talked about an act with Francois and not... Mr. President, it's just that they don't leave me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.75.0	Yes, let's tell all the deputies, including their group, who, please, go silent, as I always say. [[Widow's remorse.]] Come on in, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.76.0	Mr. President, it's not very normal for me to just say Mr. Sabria. Jo, mirin, gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana who see obsessed, absolutely obsessed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.77.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.78.0	...with the franchise and with the past. I say one thing to you, as you descend, as the nebot-net of a murder for the Franco regime, Mr. Vincent Martín Romera, seems to me absolutely offensive that you intend to establish a relationship of direct causation between those moments and the present. Being all day talking about Franco, being all day talking about Franco, really showing a lack of absolute historical rigour. Mrs. Spigares, lessons...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.79.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.80.0	...against Francoism and the defense of democracy, you will betray me, quite a few. On the other hand, your governments will give Mr. Torra, Mr. Aragonès, all your government is meeting with Mr. Carles Sastre with absolute joy, is meeting and going to the European elections with Mr. Otegi. Actually, some bad company lessons...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.81.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.82.0	...you're not gonna give me a lot of money, you guys. Few. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.83.0	Let's get to the vote. A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 2, 6 and 7.d, which I do not know if they can be voted together? [[Pause.]] This package together, yeah? [[Pause.]] So we vote first on this package that makes up points 1, 2, 6 and 7.d. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 39 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 76 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into social needs and demands and assumptions]] [[302-00181/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the social needs and demands and assumptions, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. To present it has the word the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. When you want, Congressman. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.84.0	This young man wants to address three questions that are related, but that are not coincidental, and that can be read in a joint or separate way: social needs, social demands and assumptions. To the motion that we have presented there are a total of seven concrete measures that are also possible, at last, in a reality such as that of autonomy and that of autonomy, but that entangle demands of unions and social movements with what does not include the draft assumptions. To go into content: reduction of 50_percent of the waiting lists, and more with proposals that allow them to be effective from now on. To guarantee universal health care, especially, in addition, to migrant women who do not have the condition of residents, and also to another reality, which is that of those people who are also found with a question of whether or not they can access universal health care, even with Catalan law. For what it does to working conditions, three very concrete measures are put in place: Labour Inspectorate has to deploy effective campaigns for which the work we call the kellys supposes. There is also a concrete action plan on which is equal pay for men and women. Ensure that all workers in the public sector hired directly, but also those who are subcontracted and direct, can have a remuneration of €1,239_. And to guarantee the job stability of workers in the public sector, who can see how their seats are cushioned and that some of these or these have been working in the public sector for decades. In relation to the teaching, two very concrete measures too: to paralyze and reverse the closures of P3 and P4 public education lines and groups and to guarantee public funding of public schools from zero to three years, according to motions approved in this Parliament, and we would like to remind you that the obligations are to be completed and, therefore, that they are not yet a compliment to the agreements already signed by the Catalan Government as a matter of principle. Two proposals also refer to childhood: initiate DGAIA internalisation processes; after years of studying how DGAIA is working, we do not see that indirect management can give alternatives. And compliment – and we insist on this idea to make it look like they are minimum measures – of the motion on childhood approved on February 9, 2017 in this Parliament. In the area of the fight against the poor, assess the update of Catalonia's sufficiency income indicator, which is, of course, an obligation of the law itself. And the law, which he speaks of expressly is to assess and what that means. We have also incorporated, of course, a point made by the Ciutadan Group concerning how we review the denials of guaranteed income benefits for citizens. In the academic sphere, as much as the compliment of current legality and, therefore, the actual application of EPIF, which means, for one band, to increase the salaries of workers and workers – a certain college collection – and, for another band, also, to be able to have a margin of expansion of contracts. And, last but not least, no one from the government has asked us to withdraw or withdraw or leave point 12, which is the withdrawal of the Contract Law Project from the people's service. We sincerely hoped that someone from the government would put it to us, because we are going to vote for a point that today – from a technical point of view – we think you no longer object, but in any case, as none of the government groups have proposed to us the withdrawal of this point, so we have kept it. We also want to reflect a little deeper, beyond the points that we are setting up, which is that where this young man's content is, what it is going to mean is what is not giving itself as the answer in the draft assumptions and our people need as at least. Never had the UPC made such a low-level motion from the social point of view, but we understand that it is an urgent need and for now to give response to those social emergencies that we are living. And we think they don't give it these assumptions because if we only increase the number of entries to EUR 175_million by the year 2020, then obviously it's not possible to make assumptions that can give or just answer this need. And we want to insist: even more so that we will make an alternative, not only through a whole series, but from different partials to the whole set of assumptions, we think that the solution will not be found in this Parliament and, therefore, making – indeed, from this Parliament – a call to alternative trade unionism, a call to social movements to mobilize ourselves for assumptions that are truly social or, as a minimum, to fight for assumptions that give alternatives to the day-to-day life of the popular classes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. To position himself on the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Mercè Escofet. When he wants to. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.86.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs. Good morning. First of all, from Ciutadans we want to thank the companies of the CUP for this motion of social demands. To govern and to do politics means to solve the problems of the citizens, and here we could say that the real problems of the Catalans bear suspicions. Suspected as his imaginary republic, which is his only obsession. Citizens are the group that most social initiates present in this room to solve real problems, problems that really matter to families. Precisely for this reason we share most of the points of this CUP motion, because we are concerned about real problems. In addition, we have proposed a proposal – that we are grateful that you have been inclined – because a motion that was approved a long time ago is complete and that still the government, with its inaction, has not brought forward. Entering the youth already, in the first place – as it could not be otherwise – we will pick up point 4, the realization of a specific campaign for equal pay between men and women. We have put forward various motions for resolutions on this line. The inequality between men and women in the workplace is a reality. It's a reality of wages and it's a reality of gender. Unfortunately, women are still victims of two phenomen on the labour market. On the one hand, the hooked land, which places us mostly in the least-recognized jobs and at the lower part of the salary scale, and on the other hand, the glass floor, that is, the difficulty of access that we have to the decision-making places. Getting equal opportunities is a struggle of men and women, as society forms everyone. If we don't respect this discrimination, we're helping to perpetuate masculinism, and we're never going to achieve real equality. In relation to point 5, we are aware of the sad reality that the chambers and chamberlains suffer, so we must combat the precariousness of this collection and dignify the work of the hotel and catering sector in Catalonia. It is essential to promote a specific campaign to compliment the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, right to equal pay for equal work, and to promote a stable and quality occupation. But it's not just old for this collection, it's old for all the workers. Mirin, the government should set an example, but you do the opposite. I'll explain. Last year, the temporary staff of the Generality was the collection that increased the most, despite the warnings of European justice to abuse temporality. Give an example because the generality's entire temporary staff have a stable job. Points 8 and 9 were very attached. From Ciutadans we have always defended and claimed to increase the available places of children's education in lines closing accounts and suppressing groups, as you fans. We want the government to really think about the families and their needs, because the reversal that has taken place in the past years in schools in Brazil is concretely and specifically zero_euro. But we can't expect a government that's exhausted, and if we're guided by what you've voted for the government, with the commons and socialists at Barcelona City Hall, it'll be taxed and not worried about real problems. As we demonstrated to the plenary yesterday about corruption, with the money that the process has stolen from all Catalans, we could have built drawings of schools in Bressol. We defend that the schools in Bressol are free, because it would be a real measure for reconciling work and family life. And by the end, less than three per cent, less corruption and more resources for social policies, equality and education. In short, more real equality and more solutions to real problems. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Raquel Sans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.88.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Before entering the body of the motion referring to social demands and assumptions presented by the companies of the CUP, I would like to contextualize and situate ourselves, because now a few days ago the Government, with the support of the commons, has presented an agreement of assumptions that we would vote precisely in this plenary this coming week. Some assumptions that, from the outset, I would like to say, will allocate three_of_each_four euros to social expenditure, three_of_each_four euros to Health, Education, Work, Social Affairs and Families. And that, if approved, what they will do is increase spending by more than €3,000_million and place us at levels expected to be in crisis. And where will this expenditure increase be allocated? Are we going to allocate these 3,000_million euros? So I think it's important to know, because somehow it connects with the reason that the CUP is setting us up today. So more than 900_million euros will be allocated to the public health system, a fact that will allow the contracting of a thousand_four hundred professionals in the field of primary care. In this area, also in the field of Health, a game of 20_million euros is planned, precisely intended to reduce the waiting time in the field of salvation. In Education, it's recouping finance, you plant it in this young man, for the bressol schools. More than €70_million for zero at three years. Increases the endowment for primary feeding grants, 15_million euros. It also presents or is promoted a pilot board in the area of the secondary feeding alleys. Important and – they will share with me as much as necessary – the deployment of the inclusive school, 54_million euros. It creates funding for universities, so many times claimed in this faristol and, in parallel, more than that, it lowers university fees by 30_per_cent. Ciutadania's guaranteed income increased by EUR 125_million. Dependency is increasing by EUR 92_million to improve rates and strengthen home care services. And what are they gonna do? So we'll get better rates. And what do you mean, the rates are gonna get better? The aim will be to improve the working conditions of the curative sector, one of the most precarious sectors, another thing that was intended to be done with the Law of service of contracts of the people and that, unfortunately, we will no longer have this tool. Perhaps the increase seems insufficient, surely it is, but I think it is necessary to put it in context, because we are talking about 1,500_million euros destined in the field of dependency to meet the needs of society, needs derived, for example, from the aging of the population. And if the time available was unlimited, we could extend this list a lot, because of needs and social demands, there are many and many different, as it is from the agreement of assumptions and as it is also from the reason that today we are presented with seven concrete points, which there may have been many others. You spoke..., you said it was minimal; indeed, there could have been many others. In most cases, we share the source of the claims that are being made to us today, but it is also true and we have to say that resources are limited and finite. And that, in this case, moreover, the Generalitat starts from an underfunding, with 16,000_million euros less to deal with all these needs that we have as society. And that forces us to prioritize and that forces us to square a few numbers, always more at the bottom than a man would want, I assure you. Plus, he's forced to do it with zero-deficit. Therefore, respect this young man, we have presented various compromises, in themes we share, such as the goddess, the fountain, right? , such as, for example, reducing waiting time in the field of health, improving the working conditions of the Kellys or, for example, applying a minimum wage of EUR 1,239 for the workers of the Generality. I could quote a lot of others, but unfortunately they did not accept any of our papers, because surely the will of this young man was not to reach an agreement, but to mark a political profile. And that's very legitimate, because when there's no government responsibilities, the paper still holds it, and so it can make a letter to the Kings as long as it's out there. You're laying seven points on us today, I insist that there may have been a lot of others, because when one sits down to make assumptions, there are many and very different ones that need to be. And it does make sense that it is, and as long as it is, to present this young man, but it seems a little useful to us if what we want is to approve assumptions that improve people's lives, that's what this assumption agreement is trying to do..., we didn't have assumptions since 2017. Therefore, we will vote in favour in one of the points, but in the rest not so much for the fund, but for the real possibility of applying it, so we will vote against it. He knows us hard, so, because we share, I insist, the foundation of many of the demands that are being made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.89.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Deputy Jordi Munell. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.90.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Well, on the same line as my fellow Member of Parliament Sans, as you have told us, the teams we support the government have presented a set of papers in this motion, of which, obviously, we would share the global fund, right? In fact, we are sensitive to this set of needs that our country, our society, has. But just so, when it comes to governing, it's about being co-responsible with what's pot, what's not... it's about prioritizing, isn't it? And so, we have some presuppositionary limitations that we've already claimed for active and passive, huh? In fact, this is why our group is aligned with the fact that we can become a full country, an independent country, in order to be able to fully manage all the resources generated by our country. This is not possible at these times. The state collects almost 90 per cent of the taxes of this country and at the time of returning them, it does not return them, eh? , or returns, roughly, so, a 7 or 8_per_cent, with a calculated tax burden – as has been said many times, eh? – from 11,000 to 16,000_million euros. With which, this letter to the King of the group of companies of the CUP, would be very good in a _marc in which we can hold the hundred_per_cent of these resources that it has, that it manages or generates our country. It's not like that. Not being that way, so we have to apply priority criteria. Therefore, the 2020 premise is not the right one, we have said it again and again. We've also explained it. Isn't that what we want? No, but it is what has been agreed, so with the different groups with what has been possible: with the Group of the People and the Group, which supports the Government, of the Republican Left. And therefore, with this assumption and with these limitations we can do what can be done. And so, some of the things that you propose, they're already insinuated in the presuppost 2020, some not in the cent_per_cent. And so, as we say, with this co-responsibility to rule, what we did in this young man, with a constructive will, was to do some things, huh? , therefore, of rectification or modification. It has not been possible, therefore, that they were accepted and, therefore, will touch us, as we say, not so much for the background, but for the government's co-responsibility, to vote or not. To vote that no, because it is not possible, therefore, to develop it with the current assumption, eh? And so, that's our position, huh? So I would also like to say that some of the proposals that they made, in fact, had already passed through this Parliament in some previous proposal of the UPC, which had not been approved, and which is incorporated here to see if now, with the excuse of the presupposition, it can be approved, eh? Also mention that in some words what is ugly is concrete, therefore, that there is already some rule that is unfolding and, therefore, at these times you have not felt to modify the law if there is the rule to be approved, with a broad consensus in the health sector. Or that, for example, on the subject of the Labour Inspectorate, therefore, we are completely in agreement with the subject of the inspection, but, for example, remember that who has the capacity of the inspection of offices is not the Generality, but is the Government, through the labor authority, right? And so, in this sense, you didn't feel, so, we're getting some from here, did we? As we say, also, on the subject of zero to three years, also remember that it must also be taken into account – that is not foreseen in the reading of the motion – the subject of democratic changes. I mean, there's been, at this point, a descent of the birth name, three years later. And so, when it's a line lock, so, it's not in the sense of closing, it's just the feeling of adjusting the offer and the demand and just fighting segregation, which is what they're trying to defend... or going against this young man, huh? There is also, therefore, as I said, on the subject of DGAIA..., we would also, from the outset, agree to reintegrate, to return to the public sector some of these contracts, but in any case, as we say, we must also be respectful of what we can do with the assumption. And, on the other hand, also to respect that not always the public, the cent_per_cent public is the best, but that the public-private concertation is demonstrated, with good control, that they end up also, many times, better, right? Finally, as we say, also in point 9, we would agree, because in fact, it is a measure that incorporates already the presuppost 2020, which is the guarantee of public financing of the schools from zero to three years, as we say. And also the subject of the contract of service to people, which right here is rejected, when it was rejected also in commission, huh? But in any case, I also remember that this contract... exactly, huh? , the proposal he made was precisely to preserve and ensure that contracts were awarded to companies with social responsibility, and not only with the most advantageous economic offer, but also taking into account other considerations. But despite this, so, very... the rest of the groups voted against this bill to serve people. Finally, as we say, we would generally agree with the subject of universities. Presuppositional limitation. And also remember that the universities have autonomy and, therefore, some things that we approve here, also have to be submetered after the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. In any case, therefore, the whole vote against, except at point 9. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the honourable Member Assumpta Escarp has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.92.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. It is obvious that since the CUP - Constituent Creed presented this motion – the first inquiry until the motion – many things have passed. And one of the things that has happened – apart from calling for a different election – is that there have been assumptions. And today it was noticed, in this discussion. It is obvious that we can only hear the interventions of the deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia or the Republican Left, that what they are doing is, I suppose, to derive the discussion to the presuppositional debate, but in reality what they have tried to do is, once more, a promotion of a presupposition that, for what it does to social policies, sincerely, and we have already told them in the different debates that we have held, does not hold. And they don't hold on to the numbers that you gave us, and we beat them all and each of the commissions. So, I'm going to have to say today to the motion that the companies and the companies of the CUP have presented and not to the presuppositional debate. It's a long, cross-sectional young man, and I think that, what he does is... – the Aragonese deputy divided it into three blocks – but he puts into evidence some social policies that the government hasn't given an answer to, and about which possibly more has been dealt with in this Parliament – more things have been approved and neither are they in the presuppositions of this year, haven't they? I, however, have to tell you that when I read the motion, I came to the head of the Pla de scoc social that the CUP signed in 2016. Then he signed it with Junts for the Yes, to invest in social policies, especially in health and education. There were some quantities; then there was no agreement of assumptions. And by the year 2017, when the CUP - Constituent Creed gave support to the assumptions, a good part of the Pla de xoc social had disappeared. And in this sense, it's obvious that he's disappeared from everything now. But it's also obvious that in 2017 we could have started and it wasn't possible. I'll be right in on the same guy's contents. For what it does to salvation, we are absolutely in agreement with the reduction of the waiting lists and, besides, I think we haven't talked much. And besides, it is obvious that with 20_million euros that have put themselves in the presupposition it will be very difficult. Just remember that, in 2016, in the Pla de xoc social, there were 96_million, and we were in 16. I from 16 to 19, the waiting lists have grown exponentially. And therefore, we will complete with what we have presented several times and vote in favour of Point 1. Out of points 2 and 3 – we voted for the Universal Access to Sanitary Law – I think there was a compromise to review this instruction and that... in any case, to clarify it, because I believe that, in the end, as the instruction has remained respecting the law, it is causing confusion. In this case, I want to give a vote of confidence to the councilwoman, who said that she would review it, let's hope it's... yeah. Yes, it is true that my parliamentary group has defended that there has clearly been a struggle against the fraud and, therefore, that this is being... and therefore we will abstain. For what he does for work, we will vote in favour of points 4 and 5, not only for the equal pay of men and women, which we have..., I think we must keep it all on fire, but, among other things, for what he does on the issue of the exploitation of women responsible for cleanness in hotels, which, moreover – I always..., which I like to point out of salvation – I will tell them that their exhausting days end up making them addicts to analgesics, which end up feeling clearly detrimental to their salvation. We will abstain from point 6 and vote against point 7, because there is no Catalan minimum wage. It is a salary of reference and what we hope is that we can solve it, among other things, with the help of the Government of the State and the pact between the PSOE and the United Nations We can, for what it does to the Government of the State. For the same reason, we will vote against point 13. For what it does in teaching, we will vote in favour of points 8 and 9, and it will be difficult to reverse the line lock. He said before that when a government had to take responsibility... but the government should also have been responsible and had taken advantage of the birthwall context to improve educational care and reduce ration. And that responsibility didn't take over. He didn't take it with the zero-three either. And so, it's not..., it's okay to get back the co-responsibility now, I see they're voting for it. But in any case, you should have had it by now. Social welfare. We will vote against point 10, because it is not the one who runs the centres, but we have the col·lapsate system. Actually, we will vote in favour of point 12, as we already did at the committee and I thought that this young man had already fallen, but there we are and there we are. And for what you do at points 15 and 16, respect the universities and the teaching staff and the pre-doctoral researcher, we are in favour and we will vote in favour of point 15. But from the 16th, it seems to us that the Generality is not providing this funding, and therefore we would end up putting the universities in a more critical situation than they have now. Therefore, once again, what is in evidence is that the Generalitat has not completed either with funding or with what it does with the presuppositional endowment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of Deputy David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.94.0	Well, the members of the CUP bring us a motion or a motion for a resolution on social needs and demands. I think it's good to talk about it. You've told me – don't talk about it, in this case, the motion – that, when it's about a premise, it's about entrances and it's also about investments and expenses, isn't it? Some reference in the intervention to the part of the entrances, which he considered insufficient. Well, anyway, it's much taller than the year 2017. And for example, in this case, the tax reform that we have promoted represents 550_million euros per natural year. Plus, they're paying taxes that have a high redistributive capacity. This is an increase of 15_per_cent, in this case, of the set of taxes on which the Generality has decision-making capacity. And in this case, too, of the propitious and yielded tributes; therefore, I think it is very important. And in any case, also, if we add up to 80_million, in this case, that we got the year passed with the modification of legal and documented acts, for which it refers to the constitution of mortgages, we would be talking about, practically, 650_million euros, which we have managed to increase the refund by tax. We'll see some of the tax proposals that came up from the table. I have the feeling, just as wrong or not, that the tax that was put on the non-productive goods market..., I think that from this tax we will basically get a practically zero recap, when it was the big tax that was put on the table in 2017, right? It's also an ugly reference to a presupposition..., and it's often said by Alice Romero, who says that a presupposition is a priority. I believe that, in this case, you place certain priorities that we share. And in fact, we vote in favour. It's also funny that, surely, they're not the priorities that we've placed on the assumptions, and I think they have some more power than you want, right? Therefore, I think it is reasonable to discuss which priorities are most important. Some, surely, will be for the CUP group; some others will be for the Socialist Group and some others, will be for us, won't they? I want to highlight that the 80_percent increase in spending and investment, basically, goes to four departments, which were our priorities, that were Education, Hi, Work and Social Afers and also, in this case, Company. And I think we also agree on priorities. I think that, in Salut, we have certainly placed more attention and priority in primary care. Moreover, in this case too, we will vote in favour of the entire text of the motion and hope that even many of these things can be brought forward in the parliamentary process... but we will abstain, in concrete terms, in point 2, because it is one of the fifty-eight measures that we have already put in the presuppositional agreement. And that, besides, there's the department's commitment to do it on a regular basis. Therefore, I cannot wait for the legislative process to do so through the law. For example, some of the things that you place as a priority are already in the presuppositional agreement. It's about recovering the financing of the bressol schools. Well, we get it to go from zero to 70 million euros. They also place priority in the university camp. We, in this case, believe that the absolute priority is the drop of 30 per cent in university fees, as the agreement of assumptions recedes, and that it was, moreover, done in a linear way and that it had been approved repeatedly in this Parliament. They also talk about education priorities. We have understood that it was a priority to give response to the needs of the fooder scholarships; increasing the number of fooder scholarships, but also to that which the Generalitat pays, which until now only financed the 50_per_cent of the fooder scholarships, will now go on to finance the 70_per_cent. A measure that will benefit more than 16,000 families in Catalonia. An investment plan, in this case, of €65_million for the education centre. Therefore, to which I refer is: priorities, surely there are many, many are shared. We didn't sort one out, probably you guys sort one out. As I said to the beginning, I don't think it's random that they're different from what we've been aiming for, even though I think that some are more deeply uplifting than some who are aiming at the young lady. And then I think there are a few other points that point to the motion that we also share, but they are not part of a presuppositional debate, but they need a change of government and a change of majorities. I mean, I... in this case, for example, we've shared the opposition to the Aragonese law and we don't understand the government's willingness to put it on the go. But there are, for example, elements that have to do with the government's political line, which we too in many cases do not share, such as the one about the closure of the lines of the P3 and P4 groups and the bet, for example, in this case, for the public school. I think this will certainly have to wait for a new legislature, because we also need a new government that has clear priorities, which is what we want too, huh? I have always said: "First assumptions and then elections to build a new majority in Catalonia that opened a new stage and a new decade. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.96.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man who presents us the CUP touches various themes. And the truth is, in some, when it doesn't go deeper, we can come to shared conclusions as to the object that is planted. I will set as an example, therefore, the first of the points, in which, therefore, goes to point out a need, which I believe is absolutely shared by all groups of the chamber, which is the reduction of waiting lists to the toilet. I think we can all share this objective in this. And, in fact, the reality is that the assumptions do not contemplate any type of extraordinary measure so as to be able to address the problem of waiting lists, which affect 700,000 Catalans. The problem is that when the CUP proposes solutions here is where we diverge and where we can't share the proposals they make, because, more than that, we have to deal with the problems of the waiting lists, say that it is done solely and exclusively through public media and through public centres, here is where it is contradicted, first, with reality, because it is practically impossible that only with public media is it possible to address the problem of waiting lists, and, second, if to address the problem of waiting lists it is necessary resources, to do so only through public centres, it is necessary three times more resources, the resources that are not there. Therefore, we share the problem, we do not share, in this case, the solutions that are planted. But, in change, there are other questions that we share, if, well, it does not go into depth, that is where we surely disagree. And, therefore, we will support those aspects which speak of equal pay between women and men, the problems of the Kellys, the financing of children's homes, to review the unjustified denials of the guaranteed income of citizens or the status of researchers. For what it does to ask the government to withdraw the Bill from contracts of service to people, it seems to us that it is a proposal that no longer has a place because it has been dropped, this law, to the Economic Commission. For different reasons than the CUP voted against it, we also voted against it, but obviously for different reasons. But we understand that it is not necessary for the government to withdraw it, because it is a draft law that has practically already died in commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, to position himself on the exams, has a turn again the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.98.0	So we don't want to talk about assumptions, but there are people who put data and we have to answer these data. Mirin, if you're talking to us, really, about sanitation, so, vagina to see the appearance of sanitation: 2010, assumption of higher sanitation than you are now proposing. I look at the ICS data: 2010, higher than today's data, 2020, you are proposing. It is not certain that there are 20_million for waiting lists; there are 40 in four or 10 for each year proper. And, with 10 million more, for the waiting lists, we don't do anything. On the Bressol schools, what really is, for the first time, is a compliment of the agreement already signed for the Government of Catalonia and that there have been gatherings that they have claimed and that even they have won judicially. And when we talk about guaranteed citizenship income, we don't talk about 125 million more. Ask him's advisor, that he has here, that we were asked, and the figures are very clear: 347_millions last year, this will be 388. We do not, with 40_million more, or 41_million more, make a resolution for the need for guaranteed citizenship income. You don't, by the way, make compromises, what you make are eliminations. And that's why, obviously, we don't force, nor alone, the possibility of reaching an agreement. And then they tell us that it's little useful. So, mirin: useful little? But for the majority of this country. Mess, can you do it? We tried: we went to a presupposition meeting on September 3, 2019. We're still hoping they'll give us answers. We always try to give them back to you. And then, too, for the Junts for Catalonia spokesman: letter to the King, no, this is not a letter to the King; this is a building card of the Republic, which is a very different thing. And what we're raising is things as simple as completing the law on four issues, on which you can collect 1,239 euros or on which you are redoubling the waiting lists a 50_per_cent. And you're talking about adjusting the offer to demand. So, miri, we're talking about adjusting the social needs to the offer. This is the difference of conception between those who want to overcome this society and those who are now turning into the real reaction of this country. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. We've been calling for a vote... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia? Susanna Segovia Sánchez Yes, President; to ask for a separate vote on point 2. [[Vidal Aragonese Chicharro, Anna Caula and Paretas and Marina Bravo Sobrino ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.100.0	Yes, Mr. Aragonese, Mrs. Caula, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.101.0	Yes, President. Separate vote from item 2 has been requested. We would ask for the reading of the point 2 before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.102.0	Okay. Mrs. Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.103.0	Vote separate from point 9, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.104.0	Madam Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.105.0	In addition to what has been said, the 1, 3, 6 and 7, which could be in block, and point 13, apart.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.106.0	All right. Trying to reconcile... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.107.0	Before you make the effort to reconcile, and he answers the list I have, I would ask him to vote separately from all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.108.0	So we'll take a separate vote from all the points and read the number 2 point before the vote. [[Long break.]] Well, let's move on to the vote on number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 28 votes to 69, with 36 abstentions. We will now vote on point number two. Before, though, I'll ask the secretary first to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.109.0	"Start the process of amending Law 9/2017, of 27 June, of universalization of healthcare for single reading with the aim of guaranteeing universal access to the salvation of all people, lock in those who do not have the condition of residents, especially to guarantee health care for pregnant women and people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.110.0	Let's vote, then, on this point. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 67 against, 60 abstentions and 1 Member present who did not vote. Let's move to point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 11 votes in favour, 69 against and 53 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on the fifth. The vote begins. The five-point was approved by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And we're voting on the sixth. The vote begins. The sixth point was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 65 against and 57 abstentions. And we're voting now on the seventh. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 86 against and 36 abstentions. We vote now on the eighth. The vote begins. The eighth point was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We're voting for the new one now. The vote begins. The new point has been approved unanimously; that is, 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point 10 now. The vote begins. The point was rejected by 47 votes to 86, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on the one-off. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 51 votes to 65, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on the trestle point. The vote begins. The vote was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. We're voting for the 14th point now. The vote begins. In the 14th place there was a tie: 66 votes in favour, 66 against and no abstentions. So, we'll go back to voting point number 14. The vote begins. Point 14_has been approved by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was approved by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And finally, we vote on the seven-point motion. The vote begins. The seven-point was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 64 against and 21 abstentions. There's no more way to vote for this young man. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you. [[The session is suspended at a quarter of a half and four minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon and three minutes. He presides over the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who are assisted by the Secretary General, the Major Elector and the letters Esther Andreu and Fornos and Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.111.0	Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalan minimum wage of reference]] [[302-00182/12]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the Catalan minimum wage of reference. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, to expose it has the word Mr Ernest Maragall. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.112.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, company and company. Let's see, today we're talking about rights, let's say, real, tangible. And it's time to do it in a moment and in a very precise and tangible sense, isn't it? It's about recovering, it's about reacting, it's about putting together an evidence that's not just statistical, but it's hard to tangible in our society and in the rights of our citizens, our workers and workers. Therefore, we need to talk about rights, after years of imposed austerity and after, also, years without the possibility to bring forward the assumption that now, in the end, the appropriate public spending on us. And as a consequence of this..., of the situation created in these years, we have seen how the salaries of Catalonia have been reversed, during the past decade; as a consequence of the so-called economic crisis, in fact, with a reality of effective devaluation of the real wages that have affected, above all, wages; the workers with the lowest wages, right? The wage adjustment of these years has impacted, above all, on those lower wages, which have seen their real capacity reduced by 25_per_cent; between 2008 and 2014; 25_per_cent, huh? While the top ten percent rents, huh? , they only saw it reduced by 10_per_cent, in a 5_per_cent. And if we set ourselves to '1_per_cent, surely... – not sure, sure – we would be talking about growth and not reduction, wouldn't we? So I think we're... the evidence is total, right? And now it is time to work because, effectively, the benefits of the possible economic recovery, even with small letters, of which we are talking, or to which we are theoretically witnessing, are translated into an increase in GDP; sure, but it is translated, too, into an increase in the welfare of the majority of the population; especially of those who prefer to do so. And in this, indeed, the paper of the assumption that we are in the process of approval will have a paper, the paper of guaranteeing a level of public expenditure a little more suited to the real need of the country, right? With progressive taxation, with green taxation, we'll have resources. Not enough, but we'll have a few more and we'll be able to have redistribution policies. What we're talking about today is predisposition. We are talking, not just about assumptions, but about general economic policy. We are talking about the ability of our country to effectively influence this issue in an effective way. And, therefore, we must complement the redistributive measures of the assumptions with an essential measure to correct the unsustainable, unacceptable differences that we are living today and that leave the most vulnerable part of society unprotected. That in an economic crisis the richest 10_per_cent adjusts their wages in a 5_per_cent and the poorest 10_per_cent, in a 25_per_cent, is not a natural consequence of the market, but is a consequence of a certain regulation, present or absent, and of some institutions that prioritize or a reality that ends up prioritizing one's interests over another. I think we have, at these times, a scene that actually gives us a limited regulatory capacity, like the Generality, like the government-parliament joint. But it does give us the opportunity to lead, huh? , to take the initiative, not to conform with the scene in which we are. And to do so, effectively speaking of the minimum wage of Catalan reference, that it is a concept that already exists and that we have more than just love and study and measure. And that's why, after the proper studies, the government is proposing to us – or speaking – the possibility of establishing a minimum reference wage, which is actually 60_percent of the average Catalan wage, is to say, 1.239,5_euros, huh? A 37_per_cent more than the old minimum wage of 900_euros; or a 30_per_cent higher than that which had just been agreed in the reform approved for the Socialist Government and Unidas Podemos. This minimum wage of reference would affect 31_percent of the workers who today charge under this reference. And that would be the direct incidence. And we should also talk about the indirect incidence of pressure at the height of the country's wage distribution. This is a proposal that he will only bring forward, not only on the initiative of the Generality, but through social concertation, and that is why the young woman speaks. And that's why we already did, that, according to the work plan that the same Labour Relations Council had explained at its time, a few months ago. And that's why we're also talking about the administration leadership motion to apply it to yourself, like the public administration. And to apply the concept to the bidding of public contracts [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , as long as the companies can take on their own. And it seems to me, by the way, that the most uplifting – and I finish, president – is that, as it is said in the fourth point, this motion allows, effectively, to apply the criteria of decentralisation of the concept of minimum wages, so that it respects the 60_per_cent of our economic and social reality, in which we live here, in Catalonia, which is explicitly superior to that of the conjunction or that of the middle of the State. And that's why we seem to have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.113.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.114.0	... to pull this initiative forward and ask them to approve it in order to actually hold this 60_per_cent and not a 39_per_cent of the average wage, as we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.115.0	Thank you, Congressman; thank you. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, and in order to defend the papers presented, has the word of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.116.0	To advance that we will vote in favour of all points; but we do want to explain the content of our papers and what we think, humbly, what the content of the present motion means. First of all, the group proposing that we apply the Catalan minimum wage to the Administration of the Generality; but it does not set date and, at the same time, talks to us about studying. Look, it's as simple as you, on the assumption, have the gross salary mass, picking up a key which is the cost of this enlargement to which it does not charge 1,239 euros. Therefore, we do not now want to justify that they need to do a complex force study; it is not necessary. But, at the very least, if someone is reading the generality's assumptions, and goes to Additional Provision 27, they can find exactly what the Catalonian Government – or the government – is proposing for this issue, that it is going to study and see what it can mean as regards costs, that this is a very different thing to advertise, in a propagandistic way, that it is going to make a Catalan salary of reference; it is a very different thing. And what we wanted to do is make a statement about this point, where the obligation that, before July 1, 2020, this calculation will have been made – if you need six months, so six months, for us with one day is enough – and that will take effect on the conjunction of public administration. They didn't incorporate it. According to the point: "Promoting minimum wages to concertation spaces. So, look, we are absolutely in agreement with this. They do not correspond well to the government, but it is an initiative that, if not administratively, is politically necessary. That the Government of the Government of Catalonia has moved to unions and employers who consider this to be the reference wage; but there, where you can do it, do not do it. And we won't get tired of reporting it. We could do this after the approval of the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia, and finally, without assumptions, with a law where it is clearly said that all subcontracted and contracted workers will be guaranteed a remuneration of 1,239, 59, or 1,300_euros, which we determine. And we will remind you again: the judgment of November 17, 2015, of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which enables this possibility. And the last question, which is very close: we are in favour of the medium wage, of the 60_per_cent, even though they are asked to the Spanish Government. We continue to defend the autonomous brand of labor relations. But look, we wanted to establish a security of 1,200 euros, for the next question. For the Valencia Country, what you are proposing, will mean that 2021, will be exactly what the Spanish government already proposes, the one that covers. And we are independent, but we are also, in any case, internationalists. And that you plant 60_per_cent for an autonomous community, like, for example, Extremadura, means even lower your minimum wage. We will therefore vote in favour, but we do not agree with this proposal. And we should reflect, as at least, on what it means in the area of the Catalan Countries.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Mònica Sales has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.118.0	Thank you, President; Counsellor, Members, Members. Catalonia is moving forward and doing so in many ways. And Catalonia adapts to this advance, and the government of the country, too. And despite the interbanks that have arrived on every possible front, the strength of the country is present with important decisions such as the one we are dealing with today: the minimum wage of Catalan reference. The government has set a minimum wage of reference to Catalonia, despite knowing that it does not have the competence to do so; but with a clear bet to implement it via convenient collections. And it has done so, following the directives of this Parliament, the European Parliament, and the European Committee of the Regions, which state that it must represent, as a minimum, 60 % of the average wage in Catalonia. Now that we are in full process of the assumptions, it may be pointed out that the additional provision 27 reduces the compromise of quantifying the resources necessary to implement it, from this proposal foeta and to make it an effective incorporation calendar. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia acts as the government of a state, as it has seen today in the meeting between presidents, and is always on the side of the citizenry. Thus, the executive of President Torra, compliments one of the proposals of the government plan of the Dotzena Legislature, in the point "Progress in the catal mark of labor relations, of the apart" Labour market and labor relations, of the eix 2, and is reflected – and the quote textually –: "The impulse of the establishment of a catal wage reference of 60_percent of the average wage, to the collective negotiation of Catalonia, according to the European Social Charter – and I finish the quote. The 1.239 euros is the quantity, a quantity greater than the Spanish that wants to fight the hardening experienced in the past years, and that wants to fight, also, a term that we would want to get rid of our lexicon: precariousness. At the same time, we want to promote another, which we want to use frequently: dignity. Dignity of the working people of our country, of men and women who, every day, go to their places of work and who want the coordination of the world of Administration with the business world, to make one day a day of decent wages, and not of precarious wages. We need to put it in context and remember that the economic crisis has caused major setbacks and that it has produced a wage gap that has affected, above all, the lowest levels. Unfortunately, a 14_percent of workers live in a poor situation in Catalonia and this happens for various reasons, among which there is the timing of contracts, low wages and also the increase in cost of living at a progressive rate; women-to-the-front. Discussing the minimum wage of Catalan reference is important; promoting them is important; analyzing it and putting it on the table is important. Apply it to the Administration, too, because it is also important to preach with the example. Our vote will be in favour of the whole assembly of the House, because the minimum wage is the basis of all the points envisaged by the plan of government of this legislature of President Torra; with the premise of a republican mandate. It will favour a cohesive country, with rights and opportunities for everyone – the first point of the governance plan –, a secure and sustainable economy – the second point of the plan –, a strengthened society, democratically, free and fair – the third point –, and a Catalonia open to the world – beyond the governance plan. Focusing on wage inequalities, above all, for gender inequalities, is also one of the themes of the motion and which, in this Parliament, has recently been placed on the table with the ple of women. It may be recalled that the Government's commitment is that part of the establishment of measures against the inequalities of women in the labour market, both of the wage class and of precariousness. And therefore, it is necessary to establish agreements with economic and social agents to eradicate it. Spain, with an equal interprofessional minimum wage for all communities, aware that the levels of income and living are very different, obvious that Catalonia is moving forward. Perhaps because he is not interested in admitting and obvious the yearning for freedom in this country, and from here, this proposal, to achieve a decent standard of living and to face progress without inequality. Because the progress will only be feasible if from institutions we always put people at the center, from all perspectives. And putting people in the center is also progressing for institutions, it's reciprocal. And in order to make progress, therefore, we must travel for the people of the institutions, but we must not forget also that, from the institutions, we must travel for the group of members that form this government, that it has proposed to put the people in the center and that it is encapsulated for the very honorable President Quim Torra, to whom now, perhaps, not everyone has at the center that surrounds him. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.120.0	Thank you, President. Today we are debating a motion for our autonomous community to have an interprofessional minimum wage of its own, differentiated from the rest of Spain, and they do, even if we do not have the competence to carry out such policies. If it were not because I know them and we know them perfectly well, the debate would focus on the objective of such policies, which is nothing other than reducing inequalities and ending the precarious work we suffer. And I assure you, Mr Maragall, that if you spoke with a loyal government, you would be happy to discuss technically different wages between regions, and even that there would be a technical committee to study this matter. And we are in that situation because, throughout these years of crisis, the Spanish economy has gained competitiveness basically at the cost of reducing wages. At this time more than 14 per cent of Catalan workers suffer from poverty at work, and despite having a job they cannot lead a dignified life, with continuous entry and exit from the labour market. And more than half of Catalans manifest and assure that they do not arrive at the end of the month, or that they find it difficult to arrive. And it is that the minimum wage does not solve all these inequalities and all this precarious work. But, of course, when you focus the debate on something that you have no competence, what you normally do is populism. They always act with the same modus operandi and with the same objective: to exaggerate territorial differences with our fellow citizens from the rest of Spain. And this motion comes within the framework of the creation of a story based on that we are different, and that is why we have the right to raise a border to solidarity. In fact, this motion was also introduced by Bildu and there only received the support of another populism, which is Podemos. But as you well know, the minimum wage differences not only occur between autonomous communities, they also occur between the provinces of the same autonomous community. And in ours, average wages – or medium wages – are lower in Tarragona, Girona and above all in Lleida, than in the province of Barcelona, and so is the cost of living. And I understand that they didn't bet on putting a minimum wage in each of the provinces, and they don't bet, because those provinces consider them their own. Look, this graph shows the incidence of this proposal in the four Catalan provinces. It shows us the possible negative effects, and those possible effects are higher, much higher in Lleida, in Girona, in Tarragona, than in Barcelona. Would Catalan farms, for example, bear an increase in this minimum wage? I honestly don't think they could handle it. And in Spain there are not only inequalities between territories, but also between men and women, between age groups or between levels of education. The objective of the Constitution, shared by our parliamentary group, is to eliminate these inequalities and promote equal opportunities. And this toast to the sun is not about finding solutions to job insecurity. That is why they present a study on the possible impact of the minimum wage on the economy, but they have not presented a study on the incidence of this increase in the Catalan administration itself, when you have all the numbers. And, above all, in order for this proposal to be credible, they would have to have put it in place here, in the Catalan administration, including in the budgets – they had it easy, we're processing them right now. They had a unique opportunity to ensure that salaries related to the Catalan administration were higher than EUR 1,200_ and to demonstrate that they are really better at managing. But let's be honest, you go down the street and look at the landscape, or look here, and you don't see any differences with the rest of Spain. One analyzes the Administration that they have built over forty years and, the truth, very different is not. They're not a good management adalid, they have their client networks, they have a high-ranking administration, they have their corruption cases... Look, we don't have the skills to establish a new interprofessional minimum wage, but to move..., to implement policies that would give positive results. And those policies don't devote any time or resources. They do not do so because they are very busy, they are very linked as to reform the Employment Service and that it is really useful and effectively orienting job seekers; they are very linked as to guarantee a trilingual education; they are very linked as to allocate resources to innovation or to the Industrial Plan, and they are very linked because they spend much of their time, and above all, of our resources, to sell populism, to sell independent narrative like the one presented to us today. And so they will never help reduce inequalities, they will expand them, which is what is happening under this non-government government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Pol Gibert has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.122.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. As the historical bagatage of the left recedes, the objectives of the return policy are to seek a guarantee of life worthy of the citizenry, which allows it to develop at the length of its life. Socially, everyone earns the salary as this epic point of this return guarantee, and in theory whatever I realized a paid job would have to have a life guarantee. Everyone knows that, unfortunately, it's not like that anymore. Unfortunately, today we know that having a job does not mean having a sufficient wage, and that goes to Catalonia and to the rest of Spain and to many European Union countries. As a result of this situation, there has been a debate, later on, on how to guarantee returns at different levels, among them, the debate on guaranteed income. And in this debate about what we are doing with the division of growth – which has also been mentioned by some MP before me – our group here offered a table on which to talk about this subject, a table that is said«The pact for work, in which..., as we could share the growth that generated Catalonia, we are aware that it generates a growth that is not socially shared among the workers. But when we saw this important measure presented by the vice president will do something a year, more or less – and the vice president says because he did not come from Treball's advisor, came from the vice president, at that time, his political impulse – it seemed to us that it was a smokescreen to cover the bad management of guaranteed income. It seemed absolutely like that to us. It was to present a measure on which they have no competitions, which violates the social dialogue, and which has already been criticized in its moment by the unions. With this new proposal, Esquerra wants to centrifugal what was his responsibility in the guaranteed income and in his struggle against the poor, transcending the success or failure of this initiative to social agents – they do not depend on them, they cannot do anything, they negotiate social agents and they will tell them how it ends. The key to ending the poor is reducing inequalities, as has been said here, protecting especially those who do not have a salary, because they do not have an occupation. And here the Government has extensive powers to act through the promotion of the economy and occupation; for example, through the Occupational Service of Catalonia. An occupation service that relies absolutely on its government and that, we remember, until a few days ago published job offers that were under the minimum wage, violating the law. I think they could do something more like government than exemplify job offers that violate legality. Therefore, we have not seen an exemplary government either as the public policy manager, or as the contractor that it is, and this can be contrasted with the Public Service Union, which will explain it very well. Moreover, we have not seen a compromise on the basis of the Vice-President's statements. In the project it is only a reference to study the possibility of arriving at this object. Social and economic agents are therefore asked a great deal, a great effort, but the work that the Government can do is diluted to the minimum. And, in fact, before it was said that the Parliament, on this subject, had approved it in later proposals, and, again, we see how 2016 was approved to move forward to the Catalan minimum wage through three axes – and they had well listened to the three five axes –: a, a new law of public contract, which, if I do not recall badly, has not ended in good port; the second, through a prescriptive labour law of the Catalan Republic – did not end in good port – and, the third, in the mark of the social dialogue, which do not depend on the government. In short, as I said, a smokescreen to store what you can do and don't make. And I would also like to say to the independent parties that they should be more coherent: if we want a higher SMI, we can't torpedo a government that's the most pushed it out of all history. Because we remember that the SMI bid – not this, the previous one – benefited 160,000 workers in Catalonia, 160,000 people who were seen benefiting from an action of the Government of the State, which you wanted to overthrow. Or do you think the people live by flags? People didn't see any flags, they saw their wages, they saw their returns. We cannot talk about low-income taxes and poor workers and then boycott those who work to settle these issues. In short, our group sees in this motion an electoral act of a long campaign that we have in front of us, and, if they want to campaign, in front of us, but before they call for elections and do not push this agony any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Mrs Yolanda López. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.124.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Mr Maragall told me that he was playing today, that today we were going to talk about tangible things, about real things, and the truth is that it is a joy that the social agenda is back on the table and that finally Republican Esquerra wants to discuss social matter, which is so necessary in Catalonia. The income of workers throughout the Spanish state has lost weight on wealth worldwide since the 2008 crisis. This has been highlighted by the International Labour Organization, also warning that the number of poor workers could increase in the coming years, so it recommends focusing on these countries if the situation is to be curbed and the UN poverty reduction target achieved by 2030. As is well known, minimum wage fixations are one of the powerful tools that make a significant contribution to the prevention of labour poverty and promote overall wage growth. That is why, from En Comú Puem, from União Podemos, we struggle tirelessly to achieve a rise of 22_per_cent of the minimum wage in Spain and to position it to nine hundred_euros. And now, under our programmatic government agreement and through dialogue with all social actors, we have achieved a first social agreement of the legislature, which has put the minimum wage up to 950_euros. That is all with a clear horizon for this parliamentary term: the rise of up to 60_per_cent of the average wage, as recommended by the European Social Charter. From En Comú Puem, we support any improvement in the working conditions of workers, and we see with good reason that Esquerra Republicana and the Government want to join this line. That is why, in the budget agreement, among other measures, we also bet on the advance of Catalonia's reference minimum wage. Studies support the need for the raising of the reference minimum wage with calculations proposed on the basis of guidelines from the European Parliament and the European Committee of the Regions, as well as other studies related to the subject, such as those mentioned by the ILO. So it's indecent that organisms like Foment del Treball or Pimec are generating incendiary messages about it. Honestly, we are glad that Esquerra Republicana begins to worry about the situation of workers and it has been decided to push clauses in public tenders in order to take account of Catalonia's reference minimum wage, which will help to curb the scandalous concessions that have been implemented by the Government so that the workers of these concessionary companies do not continue to lose labour rights, as is happening. But we ask ourselves a question: Has Republican Left been asked how all this is achieved? Is it clear that Squerra Republicana cannot raise a reference minimum wage in Catalonia while the government concludes with low cost estimates? But we insist: it is very good that the Government now wants to worry about the wages of the workers. It's never too late when happiness is good. All we need now is for the Government to update the costs of the public services which it has agreed with the Third Sector or private companies, with low cost estimates, which are pre-charging the wages of the workers; for a review to be made of the concessions that have been made from the Generalitat to certain companies that are skipping rights as basic as the monthly payment of the payroll of the workers – as is happening in the cleaning company Tempo with its workers–, and for the Department of Labour to put the necessary filters so that job offers that exceed the slavery line are not published from the SOC. We announce that we will vote in favour of the whole motion, except point 4, that we will abstain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.126.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, we share the problem, there is a problem in wages; we strongly disagree with the solution. There has been a debate about wages with an eye cover; looking only at the half of the problem. Wages are not a bill that is fixed in a capricious way to pay workers a job; wages are the product of workers' productivity. And perhaps in the field of public administration this may be a different concept for some. I don't think mass is supposed to be. If you want, why aren't we talking about pushing the guaranteed income of citizenship to the minimum wage, like the minimum wage? There are consequences, obviously there are consequences. That is why the guaranteed income from citizenship does not support minimum wages or Catalan reference wages. Because they know that this has consequences in many respects, not only on the Administration, that it will need more resources to deal with the salaries of its workers and of the workers who work for businesses and private entities that provide public services, and therefore it will have an influence on the taxes that will be levied on the citizenry, but also because, as Mr. Maragall has said, it is very good to start up the salaries of private businesses, and this affects the competitiveness of businesses and affects the generation of wealth. Another aspect that deals with the motion: Catalan reference wages or Catalan minimum wages different from that of the rest of Spain because the cost of living is higher. Ciutadans' deputy said so. Yes, but each province also has a different cost-of-living increase, and therefore it should have a different minimum wage. But I still add one thing: the effects of having lower wages differentiated between communities will not reduce the differences, will increase the differences, because to pay higher wages they will have to push prices, and, if they push prices, raise the cost of living to the community. But, to finish and because you have the mistake of establishing a Catalan reference salary of 1,239 euros, as you want. Do you know what the European Union country is that already has a higher average wage? Iceland, more than six thousand euros per capita, medium wages already. Do you know what Islam's minimum wage is? [[Pause.]] Zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.127.0	To pronounce, finally, on the papers, has a new turn the deputy Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.128.0	Yes, thank you, President. To thank the papers, accepted and not accepted, too; those presented by the CUP Group and also those we have granted to Junts for Catalonia. It seems to me that we are before a typical debate, say, very classic and very repeated, with other objects of decision, but it seems to me to answer to the same parameters, right? Indeed, here we are at a time when we have to demonstrate whether or not we have an effective will to influence our economic and social reality, and whether or not we are on condition of leading the transformation or the aspects, the combination of measures that the country, the institutions, the administration and the company itself are on condition of taking. And we believe that yes, that Catalonia is in a position to assume this challenge, to bring forward a minimum objective of recovering the conditions of life and dignity of hundreds of thousands of workers. When we get the 31_per_cent you'll get, we're basically talking about women, actually, and that's why you've heard about the gender issue, as the motion does. When we talk about..., when they say we don't have competitions, what we have is obligation, what we have responsibility, what we have to have, more conviction that we have to learn our leadership and our abilities and our resources to act on our own administration, and, then, also, to act in the camp of social concertation. And that calls for time, it asks for sereneness, it asks for solvency, it asks for effective decisions, it asks for no improvisation or frivolization. Few times as in this case we have the opportunity and also the ability to act with sense and responsibility for the state, and that's what we do. It's with this young man that we start to act effectively like... we know that until we've been there, we won't have all the competition. It's just that we have to stay waiting to change our reality. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] What if we keep our measurements at the bottom? I don't think it's worth answering the reflexes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.129.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.130.0	... said, strictly Jacobinists and centralists with whom the Socialist Group has just given us a little more, and that the Ciutadans Group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.131.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.132.0	...and PP share so enthusiastically. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.133.0	We called for a vote. [[Pause. Pol Gilbert Horcas asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.134.0	Point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.135.0	Point 4. All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.136.0	Point three, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.137.0	Point 3 and point 4. Separate votes? [[Pause.]] All right. The rest, I understand that you can vote for it together. [[Long break.]] Well, let's go vote on the number three point in the vote. Point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 74 votes to 38, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 67 votes to 55, with 7 abstentions. And we vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was adopted by 74 votes to two, with 53 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into industrial policy]] [[302-00183/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on industrial policy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. To defend it has the word of Congressman Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.138.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, benevolent councillor, I began my inquiry into industry in disembarkation greeting the workers of Continental, who were facing a regulating expedition, and today I would like to begin by greeting the workers of the Nissan, who are in a very complicated situation. We have asked from my group today, from Comú Can, to be able to hold a meeting with you and with the unions to assess the situation of Nissan. I would like to thank you for having accepted this meeting and I would like to take advantage of your willingness, both of you and of the Director General of Industry, whenever we have asked for it, to be able to assess the situation of the different companies that are experiencing difficulties. Thank you very much. Nissan and Continental are two cases of so many cases that arise every day in the media of communication and raid in Catalonia on the situation of our product fabric in our home. Our product fabric, the economy that produces added value, has difficulties and challenges for the future that we have to face. Catalonia has a problem with its product texture. And we don't want to be catastrophic, but we have to assume that for decades we have taken on a failed strategy in the country. We have been unpacking the productive economy to bet on real estate and service savings that are unable to support the welfare model at home. We have passed from a Catalonia where work was guaranteed to benefit the Catalonia of Glovo, where 17_percent of the workers, almost half a million workers, are poor; from the real estate candy and from being a country that built more floors than France and Germany together, to Catalonia where eight people under thirty years of age cannot leave home. And the crisis has made it clear that not defending the productive economy is impossible to benefit our home. And here in Catalonia we have a tool that is fundamental and that is of agreement to our home, that is the National Pact for Industry, that is a country agreement, of the Government, of opposition parties, of the unions and of the employers to face the challenges of the future of our productive economy, that are especially three: to sustain an intelligent growth that is put up for digitalisation, for research, for development and for innovation; that the growth of our productive economy is sustainable and that, therefore, is produced on an ecological transition and on a circular economy, that reaps the benefits of the residuals as resources, and that is an inclusive growth, that is put up for training and that is put up for quality work. And the truth – and to what you have been in the presentation of assumptions will not surprise you my intervention – is that if we look at the importance that this Government has given to the National Pact for Industry, the National Pact for Energy Transition and the National Pact for the Knowledge Society, the result is disappointing and is clearly insufficient to face the challenges of the future. Catalonia needs to recover its ability to invest in the future, to make a strategic bet, to recover its ability to plan public policies. And this ability we lost two years ago and there was no government to put on the table this strategic need. Of the expenditure we do in the productive economy, all that was current expenditure in the department more or less has been solved, in detail, with years where it has been solved worse and with years where it has been solved better, but all that was strategic expenditure is clearly insufficient. We have completed a 17,5_per_cent of the commitments in infrastructure and energy, a third part in sustainability and circular economy and a third part in one of the fundamental challenges, which is industry 4.0 and the digitization of our product fabric. I said that in the presentation of the assumptions and I repeat it today, the discussion for us is no longer of parties, of all that we have been able to achieve on these assumptions that we are content with, but it is to restitute the strategic importance of industry, of the economic transition and of the generation of knowledge at our home. We have lost a decade in renewable energies; we have lost a decade in research, development and innovation, and we have lost a decade in the digitalisation and industry 4.0 output leap that our country needs. And with this young man [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and with this I'm done, President – we're only asking one thing: that this 2020 we all, the government, the opposition and all the productive sectors of this country, and we remain the import...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.139.0	Congressman!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.140.0	...stratègique of the National Pact for Industry at our home. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.141.0	Thank you. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Maialen Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.142.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, good afternoon to you all. Well, speaking of an industry motion and proceeding from Tarragona, I wanted to show, on behalf of my parliamentary group, all the condolences to the relatives of the deceased in the Tarragona petrochemical accident... as well as an early recovery to the wounded. I would define this motion as bipolar. Yes, bipolar. Because in this motion we talk about the industry, the problem of the industry, which is a very wide sector and which encompasses different types of activity: automotive, tourism, chemical, technological, pharmaceutical... Do they sound like the European Medicines Agency, SEAT, Nissan, Tesla, Mobile, etc.? We are talking about millions and millions of euros in Catalan GDP, which translates into wealth for our autonomous community. And go ahead that we, Ciutadans, are in favour of the National Pact for Industry. Because you, Mr Lucas Ferro, in your inquiry said that Catalonia has a serious problem to guarantee the future of its productive fabric, Catalonia has an industrial problem. No, no, Catalonia has a serious problem with its political leaders and with the destructive drift initiated by Mr Mas in 2010. And to you, gentlemen of Podemos, I have not seen you worried about the wreckage produced in Barcelona and the rest of Catalonia after the judgment of the trial. [[Widow's remorse.]] Neither did Mrs. Colau, mayor of a big city like Barcelona, when she became a lawless city for more than a week. They did not care that they would destroy infrastructure, urban furniture, that hundreds of businesses, SMEs, industries would have to close their businesses or simply literally destroy them, causing millions of euros in tacit losses and opportunity costs. They did not care that the automotive industry would have to paralyse its production temporarily due to this street violence; that workers, suppliers, self-employed, auxiliary companies that are also part of the industry would have their jobs or businesses at risk. That didn't worry them, then? Have you not minded that the European Medicines Agency rejected Barcelona in favour of another European city? Hey? With the resulting generation of direct and indirect jobs and millions of euros in investments that have been lost, recurring year after year. Has it not mattered to you that Tesla decided to set up its headquarters in Berlin instead of Barcelona? And now the Mobile, which when the river sounds water carries. They're putting it on a tray to other cities that I'm sure they're happy to host the. What do you have to say about this? Do you think business and industrial decisions come by themselves and are made in the short term? Do you know how hard it is to raise a business, a company, or the decisions to make to hire a new worker? Honestly, I don't think so. Catalonia is a reference in the industrial world whose productive fabric is made up of 95_per_cent by SMEs, but the weight of the industry has been reduced by more volume than in the rest of Spain. October One remained three tenths of the tourism sector to GDP, with estimated losses of 319_million_euro. And you are in favour of referendums, in this case, even illegal. The business and industrial world is not short-lived, it is often ahead of events and it thinks about the medium and long term. And these kinds of actions have serious consequences. For our autonomous community it is worrying the increase of the EREs, which in Catalonia, in particular last year, have increased by 117_per_cent compared to 10_per_cent only in the Community of Madrid. And these EREs don't come alone and have different causes. Have they not wondered why companies close here in Catalonia and yet open in other autonomous communities? They also speak in this motion of the center of Martorell, considered a fundamental piece for the industry and which is the eternal subject pending of this Government, with four departments involved, three of Esquerra and one of Junts per Catalunya : Economy, Labour, Education, Enterprise. Taking into account the disgovernment that governs us – although we do not know very well how long – aimed in recent years at generating the foundations of the collapse of Catalonia rather than at generating political and legal stability that needs any business and industrial decision, the requests made in this motion regarding the policy or the National Pact for Industry will become obsolete. And he commented that this motion is bipolar because we come to another fundamental leg that influences the choice of our autonomous community to establish itself in it, to invest or to create jobs in the different industries, which are the budgets and the fiscal pressure to which we are subjected, both private and business, which will be increased after their approval. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you who have negotiated the budgets with Esquerra have been so concerned about the industry that of the 36,000 million of the budget of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia you only dedicate 51 million to industrial policy, that is to say, 0.14 per cent of the total. And by rejecting our amendment which sought something as obvious as the Government's taking on improvements in the maintenance of the petrochemical complex in Tarragona or the revision of existing protocols, they make clear that bipolarity of this motion. Despite all this, we will support this proposal because our parliamentary group, Ciutadans, does think about industry and all the auxiliary companies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.143.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.144.0	...derived from it. We're above all that. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.145.0	Thank you. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Antoni Castellà. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.146.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the unionist mantra, we are back to reality. Congressman Lucas Ferro, recognize them, from our parliamentary group, the opportunity of this young man, the tone and agreement that we have had. We've submitted papers. The discussions have perhaps been more substantive and, therefore, we agree on the proposals that he is putting to the vote today, because the challenge is very relevant for the Catalan industry and it is the fruit of the National Pact for Industry, that some responsibility must be given to the Government to push it and, at the moment, to propose it. Therefore, balancing is something the government has prepared and will therefore present within the terms that are in the same pact. To establish, therefore, a schedule of commitments I also believe is the Government's will, and it can be much more obvious than the approval of assumptions. Or the need to redefine the Catalonia Residue Agency; the compromise to develop the Energy Transition Law, and, of course, we agree on the urgency of the Martorell Professional Training Centre's inn in March. Therefore, we agree. And, probably, in the compromises of the pact, the courage to make them..., they also have to keep at the side of the variable that we have not had assumptions until now. And if we've all agreed on some assumptions, probably things have been different. But we agree, in any case. Therefore, I leave only one reflection: Catalonia, despite the circumstances, is a dynamic economy. We grew 2018 with 2.6_percent of GDP and 2019 grew with 2_percent. Twenty per cent of GDP is industrial, with a high level of internationalization and a very powerful system of border knowledge generation. And these are the necessary bases – and some good bases – to incorporate us into the fourth industrial revolution. It is to say, to compete, to build an economy that does not compete respect the precariousness and labor costs, but competitiveness is by added value and innovation. And in this sense, the European Commission, they must remember that 2014, proposed the strategy of intelligent specialisation, the RIS3. 2014 was approved by Catalonia, and in fact, I was lucky enough to be able to participate in it, in the European Commission. The aim was for the European regions to specialise in two or three areas... – the areas of knowledge – in two or three areas of potential industrial sectors. What happened? That the European Commission has approved the strategy – the approved tea, the RIS3 for Catalonia – but it has to make an exception with Catalonia, from all European regions, because a few knowledge-based axes and almost also a few industrial-potential specialisations came out. That was the model of a state. And, in fact, the European Union had to make an exception and adapt, to the strategy of Catalonia, the same type of design it did for countries of the same size as Denmark or Finland. Although at that time we had serious problems with the same ministry, at that time led by Luis de Guindos – the State always poses problems – the European Commission recognized what the model was. And, therefore, we have the great conditions to join the fourth industrial revolution. What's the big deal? – and you know it –: how to transfer and convert border knowledge into value added to our industry. And here, finally, Mr President, I would also like to recall some conversations, at your time, that were held with the scientific offices of Israel and the Netherlands. Why? Because the generation of scientific knowledge was very similar. And they had the ability to transfer. They, in their conclusions, said to us: "Generen prou connoisseur; they have a 20_percent of industrial GDP; they are strongly internationalized; they have to take many decisions in the field of knowledge transfer, transfer programs, accelerators, start-up impulse... but above all they need regulation of the financial markets, labor regulation, total financing of infrastructures or regulation of strategic sectors such as energy and telecommunications. That means it's a state – that means it's a state. And, therefore, becoming a state is also the necessary condition for an economy that moves forward, that has the basis to join the fourth industrial revolution, as it did in the first, but now more than ever it needs as an absolute and competitive condition to become a state and be able to fully develop the potential for economic growth, sustainable, solidarity and justice. That's the big challenge. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.148.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, Tarragona lived the past 14 years to generate one of the hardest episodes around the chemical industry in the last few years. From our parliamentary group we are very sorry for the loss of life in the life of Torreforta and the two workers – as we have already expressed – and we also show support and support, as it cannot otherwise be, to the families of all the wounded, but also those affected in this accident. I want to fill out the emergency phase, because, more than that, I found myself in the first person. Highlight and thank the rapid intervention of all the services, led in this case by the Councillor of Interior; there were bombers, movers, sanitary, Civil Protection. And despite all this, there were moments of uncertainty, which were certainly better. The same councillor Buch announced them, especially in the face of messages to the surrounding population. I would like to point out that there has been an important change in the mental mark of the population in relation to the perception of perilousness in the activity. It is for this reason, she advises, that transparency in the investigation of causes is vital, both for the population and for the same sector, which has also perplexed such a difficult episode, and which has been struggling for many years, with major investments, for the safety and competitiveness of its enterprises in our territory. In this line we have already given a joint answer from all parliamentary groups to activate a study commission that must be used to aggregate the appearances, the questions, even all the opinions and everything you do..., respect to be able to give an answer also from the parliamentary sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, the chemical and petrochemical sector brings very important jobs and a significant share of GDP to our home, to the province and around Tarragona. The industrial joint represents the half of the chemical production of the whole country, in Catalonia. But now we have a profound debate, given the table, about the future of businesses, their competitiveness, their relationship with the environment, the measures to be taken in plans reviews... All this, at a time when information via social networks floods us with a multitude of impacts – many times without foundations – that create alarmism situations, that overcome the appropriate established protocols. This situation can only be combated by rigour and responsibility. Catalonia is a territory that enjoys a great diversity in the industrial field, sectorally and also territorially, set up by competitive enterprises. These... have worked intensely since then, but they face a major challenge: the fourth industrial revolution, with the incorporation of new and various exponential technologies. I am convinced, counselor, that we are prepared, also from the Administration, to give support to this challenge. The challenge that Europe marks for us to be at 20_percent of the industrial VAB by 2020, and that we at this time are already at 20,7. The assumptions reflect the support... – also manifested with the unanimous agreement of this chamber to the National Pact for Industry–, showing that fifteen per cent of its assumptions are devoted to industrial development and thirty per cent to more than 200 million – on the part of research, development and technology transfer, which must clearly go to improve all this innovation task of these companies and others, at the level of our home. For what the representative of Catalonia has presented to us in Comú Pode, I would like to thank him for what we have had in the talks. We came to an agreement, because it was really matisar, there were fears of matisos, which obviously led to enriching the whole. We obviously agree that we have to finish this term of the National Pact for Industry, we have to devote the resources that the assumptions allow us. Obviously, in agreement with the compromise to complete it and to schedule it for this remaining phase, the complicity of Territories and Sustainability with the circular economy, also with the creation of the Catalan Agency of Energy, and also, and very important, especially for the sensitivity of the automotive sector, the support in the effort to live and guarantee the inlet in the market of the Professional Training Centre on the part of the automotive sector, which, say, is a sector that we must spoil, is a sector that contributes a significant share of GDP to our home, with more than 143,000 people occupied and, therefore, also by responsibility for governance and sensitivity, we also give support. Let's think, then, that we are at the side of starting the fight for climate change too in all these policies. With this motion on industrial policy we agree, as I said, on all these issues, and now that you also have responsibilities in Madrid, together with the PSC and the PSOE, I believe that on one of the issues that has emerged, that it is infrastructure and energy, it will also be important that you give an impetus to these policies, that at our house we miss them very much, with their complicity since the State. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.149.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. In order to fix its position it has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Alicia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.150.0	Thank you, President, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor, deputies and deputies. Miri, Mr. Ferro, that we normally agree enough in positions and opinions, but the truth is that I was surprised by this young man as much as he did to us. The truth is that I don't understand them very well, except that you put me in their role as responsible partner, that they don't usually do it either for Catalonia or Esquerra, but in change you have taken over this responsible role quickly in this negotiation of assumptions. And I'm saying it so clearly, because it's really a soft man, it's a comfortable man for the government, it's a man with whom they don't get a substantial commitment to the government: to call the commission to present a plan, to sum up, etc., but we don't really see here an economic compromise, which is what the industry would really need to make an important adventure. You know, and you said it, and I think we've talked about it many times here, as the industry has a very important challenge, linked to digitization, to the incorporation of technology in front of the challenge that it has in front of it, and we would talk here about many sectors such as automotive and, in turn, the Government of the Generality, with its acquiescence, have remained immune to the assumptions that we are presenting by 2020 to increase the amount dedicated to the industry. And you, in this young man, haven't been good enough. I suppose, as Mr. David Cid said this morning, they've prioritized. Well, let them know, too, they have prioritized and decided that industry is not a priority. And I remind you what I told the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge when the councilwoman came to present the assumptions: it is clear that we should devote resources to trying to fight against inequalities, but if we are not able to put resources to the generation of wealth and jobs, in which country we will convert. And we're not putting knowledge at the center of the economy, and we're not betting on industry. And it seems to us a big mistake that you do not push the government to put some more resources in industry. And I'm telling you why 2010– as much as Vice President Aragonès likes to compare with 2010 – 2010, the assumptions dedicated to the industry were 165_million euros; 2017, 52, which is when the pact was signed; 2020, which we are now proposing, 50, is less than 2017. Of course, it's hard to think if we can really cope with the industry's change in strategy if we're not able to put in some more resources. It's very difficult for us. And, look, I'll tell you that on the 19th of September, the last Ple of the year, Junts for Catalonia presented a motion on industry, you must remember Mr. Munell, because we did many papers, in that motion, and curiously they were accepted, and they were a little more ambitious than you asked, Mr. Ferro. Because we have taken a compromise to the Government, which has obviously not been reflected, because the government's motions here do not complete them, of 120_million euros. The compromise we made to the Government was EUR 120_million, EUR 20_million to devote to disruptive technologies in Catalan companies, EUR 50_million to industrial research policies, and EUR 50_million to research and research groups, which was before the Member of Parliament Castellà; EUR 120_million, which we have seen. Of this EUR 120_million, we go to the 2020 budget, presented to us by Vice President Aragonès, and zero. Well, zero no, minus 2_million euros, because, man, by 2017, the initial was 52, and now they're offering us 50. So, look, more than confirming that the government does not comply with the agreements reached in this Parliament, with that motion that we agreed on one month ago, and I'm going out with the groups that the government agrees to, it turns out that now you're presenting us with a still softer, still softer, young man. And what's already surprised us a lot, which almost sounds like a joke, is this from Martorell's Professional Training Centre, because it's been so many years since we've been talking about this! It is that I remember, now I have to do maybe five years or so, that we went with the Commission of Enterprise to visit SEAT, and I remember that they already give us, at that time, how it might be that this center that is finished, inaugurated, is not set in motion, when we need this formation. And give us SEAT to go looking for workers in Portugal, because they didn't find people trained here. All because we weren't able to put this vocational training centre on the market. And now we're asking for six months to live, because, well, in the bid that was made a few months ago, they were unable to get anyone. That I am surprised, with a sector like automotive, that we are not in a position to surround a company that I managed. I'm... I'm surprised. And, therefore, oysters, I cost to give support to this as if nothing had happened, all this time. No, no, It's been and it's been a long time. And it seems hard for us to leave this behind in a car industry that doesn't devote much resources to it, does it? , Mr. Iron: 2,7_millions. It laughs, 2,7_million, I don't even know if we're going to get through the wheels of the trucks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.151.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.152.0	It is correct that we criticise the proposed group, because it is certainly a much more conservative movement than we did not vote for, proposed for the Socialists and Units Group to advance, but I believe, or believe from the CUP, that we also have to self-criticize, the group group assembly, in a reality like that we see ourselves under the crisis of industry and industrial policy, that we have no more alternatives, because mirin, if we go to look at what we will approve today, we have, for a band, a balance report of three years of the National Pact of Industry, timetables for the implementation of the National Pact of Industry, redefining the functions of the Agency of Residence of Catalonia, transforming the Icaen into the Catalan Agency of Energy, and the Marjole of the Professional Center of Education. With this, is it true that there is someone in this Parliament who you think will give us the necessary answers to the crisis of industrial policy or industry that sees the locals and that we are already seeing? No, we've all got it, and we're all clear. And, therefore, we take this as a collective self-criticism. We also wanted to put more alternatives there, that this time we didn't take out papers, but at other times. The first, the need for more resources to rethink. The second, the law, or a regulation that industrial polygons cannot transform into a speculative economy. We still have a lot of destruction of industry that the only source and cause I find is not that companies have no benefits, but that, through urban speculation, they achieve more benefits. And it is also important that we have a general debate on the model of industry, all that industry means to our country, and that we can do it more in time and we can do it with concrete proposals. And the last question, the other side of the industry: the workers and the workers. We continue to defend the repeal of labour reform, of all labour reform. The labor reform that can be completely repealed without any technical problem, say what the current minister says, and, therefore, to Catalonia's companies and companies in Comú We can ask them to continue defending what they do practically two months ago in this Parliament, that it is also necessary, also, to repeal, not three small points of the counter-reform work, but its conjunction, that of the PP, both good and good that of the PSOE, and that, therefore, this is a guarantee for the defence of the occupation and is a guarantee that the workers and workers of the industry have decent working conditions. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.154.0	No, I left my eyes and, therefore, the paper won't be any use to me either. [[Rialles.]] Thank you, President. He will advise, Members, Members, when our group receives a motion from the group of the commons, and, moreover, on industry, the first reading that we are doing is to look for, to see the arguments that we have to use to vote against it, and I have given him many downs and, indeed, he has surprised me, but I have found absolutely no argument to vote against it. And this, I say, must be that the group of the commons has a lot of assumption that it's a group, of those groups that support the government, they have a lot of assumption of this paper, but, at the very least, to such an extreme point that I think it's more incisive the motions that present the groups of Joints for Catalonia or the Republican Left than the one that has presented us in this whole group of Commons, isn't it? At last, forgive me, but now I'm giving it to the MP of the UPC, I found myself missing a classic, which is what usually justifies our vote against: the repeal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party, is that they didn't dare or pose this, right? [[Rialles.]] Irony off. Irony off because I think the industrial sector is painted by a complicated situation and we should pay attention to it. We have discussed, many times, with the councilwoman, and let her give them a sifra. In a _marc of... yes, of slowing down the overall job creation of the economy, industry in Catalonia, the last year, has lost twenty-i-five thousand jobs, right? And, therefore, we believe that, indeed, you deserve reflection, and what you say on the motion to bet on the Industry Pact without any compromises, and so, okay, we can't say no to that, can we? and, therefore, we will give them support. We will also support the reformulation of the Agency of Residus, but it is so poor that they propose to us, but well, to reformulate the Agency of Residus in the framework of the circular economy as a resource agency. All right, look, this energy transition law thing, we can give it support. After we get into the detail... listen to me, no, you know perfectly well, after we get into the detail, you're so tax friends, I'm sure these laws and these changes will turn into us taxed for the citizenry, then it's when we say no, but well, the will is good. I'm done. Home, the theme of the Automotive Professional Training Centre, in Martorell, I think it is a very obvious display of the fracá, not just of this government, but of the successful governments in relation to the automotive industry. Let's hope it's resolved quickly and that it's not too late for the sector, because it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, and it's going to be even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to position himself on the papers, Mr Lucas Ferro has a late turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.156.0	Thank you very much, President. Many thanks to Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left, with which we have been able to reach agreement. Only a few words to Ciutadans' intervention. I think that being with this political attitude all day and focused on the monotheme won't save you from the electoral history you've been screwing up in a few months. [[You want to "Oh! Some applause.]] I'm telling you honestly. Secondly, to the only public office that I have seen defend, in practice, that the rise of taxes triggers a capital flight is his deputy Marcos de Quinto, who had the hard face of going to Portugal to pay no taxes while receiving subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture. And then, I saw many interventions in the context of the smoothness in which we presented the motion. And we have presented a generic motion because our only objective of this motion is to put on the table the need to reassemble ourselves to the National Pact for Industry mark and to re-establish its strategic import, and we have done so, basically, because we understand that the negotiation of assumptions does not respond to the strategic import that the industry has at home, and that this will require a collective impulse that goes beyond who governments are from here to here, or from who they govern today, but it involves all the actors, socioeconomic actors and political groups of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[You're looking for "Bravo! Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.157.0	Mr. Ferro, I am convinced that you are quite capable – because the acquaintance – of making the same statements with a language a little more respectful. Thank you. [[(Remor de veus, laughs and applause. Pause. Vidal Aragonese Chicharro asks to speak.) Tell me, Mr. Aragonese.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.158.0	Yes, President. In order to ask for a separate vote on points 3 and 4, which can now be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.159.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Alicia Romero Llano i Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Romero, ma'am Bravo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.160.0	President, vote separate from point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.161.0	The 4, which has already been asked, but separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.162.0	All right, so let's get to the vote. We'll vote first on number three. The vote begins. This point was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's stopped. We'll do the vote again. Something's gone wrong, huh? [[Pause.]] I was able to vote, but anyway... [[Rialles.]] Re-vote – re-vote. We voted point number four, huh? The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 91 votes to 40. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 114 votes to 17, with 17 abstentions. And now we vote points 1 and 2, which are the remaining ones to vote on this motion – 1 and 2. The vote begins. These two points were approved unanimously, that is, 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the inquiry of the Center for the Study of Opinion «Perception on the territorial debate in Spain]] [[302-00184/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the survey of the study of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio « Perception on the territorial debate in Spain, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To defend it has the word Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.163.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies... this young man has his origin in the question that was tough on the part of the CEO on the territorial debate. And this young man is in debate today, and he has a certain consistency, because today the meeting took place between President Torra and President Sánchez, and we need to remember that this meeting, so it was already a matter of fact, because he did many months of less than he continued to the Presidency of the Generality. And so, so, this place that we're debating today has different points that are our lives to explore this dialog and this negotiation. And these proposals have their origin, and therefore they are related, in this. Basically, if we pool the twelve proposals, we can group them into three axes: a first axis, related to the dialog and the negotiation; a_second, to the de-judicialization and amnesty, and the third, in relation to the exercise of the right to self-determination. In relation to the first, the dialog and the negotiation, there are different points that make reference to the dialog and how we think we need to address the dialog and the negotiation. We believe, as he also made manifest to the Commission of Inquiry of 155 this week... President Puigdemont explained how the dialog was tried, so the toughest days, October 10th and September 27th. And, therefore, we distrust this dialog, because we want guarantees; we want guarantees because we are heated. And so President Sanchez, when he meets President Torra today... we understand that there is to be dialogue, we have never risen from the dialog table, but we also ask for guarantees. And one of these guarantees that we have already claimed since the 21st of December, with the agreement of Pedralbes, is the figure of an international mediator. On the other hand, with regard to de-judicialization and amnesty, we also want to point out that Catalonia is not in the same situation as the Spanish State, so because we are not on an equal footing at the time of negotiation, because there has been imprisonment, exile, because there is an inequality that is obvious. We also understand that it is important to recognize as interlocutors the interlocutors that the Catalans and Catalans voted as interlocutors of independence: President Puigdemont, to whom his immunity must be guaranteed; and Vice-President Junqueras, of whom we also demand immediate release in this motion, in addition to the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And not by our whims, which we ask for this recognition of these interlocutors, but because the Catalans and Catalans have noticed it in their votes. Moreover, we know and see that the Spanish courts act with political interests; they do a judicial Brexit and they do a bit of a judicial state respect the political agreements. So we saw how the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled the Junqueras case and how it was incomplete. Therefore, it is necessary to defend the institutions, the Presidency the Generality and any institution, before the attacks of the Central Electoral Board and the European Court. Because it is very difficult to fail to comply with a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And remember that this week at the Polish legal portal Rule of Law the president of the same Court of Justice makes reference to the need to guarantee a legal system in which there is judicial independence, and that all member states are obliged to compliment the judgment. Also, therefore, this judicial process passes through this judicial review of the high judiciary, through the amnesty of the prisoners, and more here we have also reached a deal with Esquerra and the UPC respects the supplicator. We believe that it is an opportunity for the Socialist Party, that it also defends the dialect, and to show proof of credibility, that there is a position of this Parliament against the supplicator that the European Parliament will vote in relation to Clara Ponsati, Toni Comín and President Puigdemont, because it is a political supplicator, and we believe that Spanish justice is politicized and will not guarantee the minimum guarantees of justice, as we have already seen with the other companies that have been sentenced. We also made a defense of dismissal in the case of detainees and detainees on 23 September, that there was no cover or legal basis for his accusation and for his arrest and for his lack of freedom, that can no longer be recovered from the way of life, because, when freedom is violated, the time you have been in prison is no longer recoverable. And finally, with regard to the exercise of self-determination, what we are presenting is a comprehensive agreement, a national agreement with all entities, the parliamentary groups – which President Torra had proposed – to reach an agreement on the exercise of self-determination, because it is the only way to reach a solution to this political conflict. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Because what we asked for, what we asked for, and what the CEO himself asked for, was that the results of a reference to Catalonia and Spain would be accepted by a large part of the population, above all the reference to the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.164.0	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.165.0	Therefore, voting is never a crime, and with that we ended the vote. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.166.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the first word, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.167.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, thank you to Gemma Geis, MP; we don't share the content, but I would like to take advantage of these five minutes that we have to do a little bit of thinking, right? I mean, a few hours ago the President of the Generality and the President of the Government of Spain met; I think there was a time that it would be good if we could also import the Parliament of Catalonia, and wanted to convey this reflection. Because if we're all talking about dialog and we're all talking about decline... well, there are some that don't, but if we're talking about dialog, so maybe we'll get over this monologue success. If we say so, I think we could open a new stage where there are no disqualifications, where the "bronchs before disappear from this chamber, because I believe that the political representatives have a responsibility..., we have many, but also the mark in which political talks are placed, all the words that we make use of those who are lucky to have these microphones, so they can also contribute to what we say we want to do because it's a reality. And, therefore, I believe that it is up to us to make this self-criticism to all, to all the Members, of the work we do here, that we can certainly do better. I remember perfectly the first time someone, who thinks like me, like the socialists, told us that we were not democrats just because we thought differently, and I remember how it hurt at that time. And we remember and we all have a lot of presents, so, the improvisations, that's what we talk about... This young man also talks about "a little bit of state, judicial in this case; others talk about "a little bit of state in democracy. Well, then, maybe, if we start abandoning that vocabulary, among all of us, we can be more about what it looks like we all want, that it's a sincere and loyal dialog. And, therefore, I invite you out of this comfort zone where it seems that some of us have set up, and we talk about respect, we talk about recognizing each other and we all talk a little bit of self-criticism. Perhaps today is a good time to talk about this dialog, for the back, this meeting of the two presidents, to talk about the territorial dialog. Today President Sánchez spoke of conscience, honesty and clarity, and I believe that for the general interest of all Spaniards and Spaniards, and they also recognize this plural reality of Catalan society, the fact of speaking of people. I made a statement to Geis's company that I didn't take into account – in fact, I didn't even talk – that I'm talking about the importance of how in the day of things. We're talking about political dialogue, we're talking about the future of Catalonia, we're not talking about the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State, we think it's a lot more complicated, and that's why we won't raise this young man. It's a young man who talks about these conditions for the dialect, who unfortunately..., and I hope they can move, because it seems that, if we condition them to reach agreement, what we have above the table is an agreement between those who think alike, that they are the independents – so they pose it to the young man – and it seems that there should be an adherence to what the independents think. And, of course, so we won't get out of it, because you know that, just as you claim self-determination, we claim self-government; just as you speak of repression, we speak of democratic regeneration, but we remember every day that Spain is between..., all the most prestigious indexes on democratic quality place Spain in the best positions. That you're perfectable? Like all life; help us do it, but we will never get into this march that Spain is not a democracy. They also say in their young lady that it is fulfilling the commitments, and here I would also like to reflect, therefore, what we are living these past few hours. The President of the Government of Spain told President Tora to tell Vice President Aragones to go to the meeting where all the economic advisors are with the Minister of Hisenda. So I think this is the right way to do it. Consteller Chacón has made a front with the Consteller of Industry to be able to save the work places, because Nissan's plant has future in our home. We believe that this is the way to do it, while witnessing the findings that speak of the interests of all Catalans, such as finance. So, sorry very much, we can't pick them up a young man who disqualifies a state of law as Spanish. It's not going to be our proposal, it's not going to be. I'm sorry we haven't been able to talk about this definition of the situation that Catalonia sees, that it's not the conflict between Catalonia and the State, but it's a lot of conflicts, all of them, for a long time, that would take a lot of time, also a lot of will on everyone's part, because there's a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.168.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. Next is the return of Deputy Marc Parés, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.169.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, you're presenting us with a motion from the government's inquiry into the CEO's inquiry into the perception of the territorial debate in Spain. Miri, I'd love to put some data on this one, wouldn't I? The first, and the most obvious, is that 80,5_per_cent of the population of Catalonia wants dialog and that this given state is 65,6_per_cent. Therefore, this is the way; the dialog is, to be sure, the way we have to face. It's true that for a long time this door has been locked, that the PP government was an authentic wall against the dial. But that government put him down, we put him down between everyone and everyone with a motion of censure, when everyone said that this was impossible, and we made it possible. Fortunately, we are now beginning to open a new stage, with a new coalition government in the State; a dialog that starts from three elements that for us are closed: the first, the recognition of Catalonia as a political subject; the second, the dialog without red lines, and, thirdly, refer to Catalonia what results from this dialog. That's the way. And we are hopeful. Now, it's true that because a government in Catalonia can prosper, that it believes it, that it believes it, and that you put it there. Certainly, the CEO's inquiry also says that only an 11,2_per_cent of the Catalan population defends the unilateral way. Therefore, we believe that this should also make us think. But, well, entering into the content of the motion, we will vote in favour of most points, because, indeed, we believe that this is a political conflict, because it is an interlocution between the two presidents and because we reject the judicialization of politics and all its effects. We have presented three papers that have unfortunately not accepted us. The first, because you speak of a national agreement on amnesty and self-determination, a national agreement that does not exist. And we proposed, instead of this, that we should push a solution that should be referred to the Catalans and the Catalans, and that will guarantee the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners and the return of exiled people. They didn't accept us. Well, the second point was because we understand that repression is not only explained by 155, but it is much more complex, that there is a police repression, an institutional repression – of 155, indeed – and also a judicial repression. And the last point, because we believe that it is not true that the Spanish State is irreformable. And we are very aware of who are the keyposts of the State, of who are the democratic deficits of the Spanish State; we are very aware of how during the last decade we have witnessed a process of re-centralisation and interpretation every time more regressive of the Constitution. Now, we are also aware that there is a republican Spain, that there is a progressive Spain, a fraternal Spain, a Spain that values and recognizes Catalonia, and we believe that it is very unfair not to want to recognize it, that it is enormously reductionist. And, in fact, we think that if we don't start to recognize this reality, if we don't start to recognize that there's a coalition government in the state that for the first time, right? , incorporates a republican force, like ours, so, if we don't recognize it, we won't be able to start getting out of this atzucac where we are, so that we can advance winning sovereignty, winning social rights, winning environmental rights and winning, too, national rights. I'm done. We vote against point 5, which is a point that we really care about. I've already told you, we'll almost vote for all the points, huh? But point 5 makes us very worried. In fact, we'd expect Republican Left's companies, companies and companies, not to vote in favour of this point 5. And the law, because it is clear; it says: "The Parliament of Catalonia, that is to say, the sovereign representation of the assembly of the people of Catalonia, places all the actors of independence – it is to say, only part of the Catalan society – "to participate in a space where it is possible to debate what and in what conditions the President of the Generality and the Government of Catalonia can negotiate with the Spanish Government. Really? I mean, do they really think that the future of this country will only be built by the independent actors? Can't you see that, by doing so, they're letting go, they're shutting down, half the country? If they do, let's go back to the demoscopic data that gave little to this young man. In how many barometers do we find a given in which independence exceeds 50_per_cent? How many? Since they were talking about demoscopic data. They do not think that it would be better to build a solution among all the Catalan political forces, in which we all gave in because that is precisely why we are asking a much wider majority of Catalan society, and that, therefore, we reflect much better how our country is and what our country wants? We believe – and I finish – that if we did so, if we were able to reach an agreement of this type, they would advance as the country in a much firmer, much more solid, much more democratic and, above all, much more republican form. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.170.0	Thank you, Mr. Parés. Next, it's the return of Deputy Sergi Sabrià, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.171.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Geis, in any case, first of all, many thanks for accepting the papers, mostly, that we had submitted, for your willingness to agree. I'm sure if always the attitude was like hers, it would be a lot easier. Look, we're so happy that today we've introduced this young man, that they embrace the table, that they want to be, that they want to collide, that they accept that, despite the obvious difficulties, it's an opportunity to move forward. Negotiation – and here we have the negotiators – was very complex. For a lot of motius. Because in the end we were sitting on the table with those who justified repression, and not just that, but those who still today are complicit every day. It was very complex because it was not a typical negotiation, and therefore, because it was neither financing nor infrastructure nor social law, nor anyone could go to Madrid to play fish in the convergent den, as it had been for so long. And also because we started from a difference, from a very clear difference: a Socialist Party that wanted an investiture and had before it a Republican Left that wanted to give an opportunity – an opportunity – to resolve the conflict. And, as we have explained thousands of times, an opportunity that did not start from the PSOE's will, that does not start from the PSOE's will, but only from the election results. Because the PSOE does not dialogue, it is obliged to dialogue. And the election result really gave us an opportunity, an opportunity to force them to take advantage of, an opportunity to do what we were asked to do: "Sit and talk. A path of the dialog that in no case is a path of resignation; a path of the dialog to exercise our rights, a path of the dialog to reach the exercise of self-determination, to do it again. And this table also has to be an opportunity to do it again. And what have we achieved so far? So surely a little bit, because the object is very big, but it does not, if we take a look back: recognition of the political conflict, which is the first point of its motion, and we rejoice; a compromise – fragile, sure – of activation of the political path to resolve it, a_measuring table between equals and without limits. And we'd love to add an international mediator to it. But neither can this be the excuse to stop your sister, to stop talking and not to continue. And a consultation, and a consultation so that, in the end, the citizenry values the results of this negotiation. And, more importantly, it's a table that's not a party, because it's a table between governments. And today we saw a first test. In short, a message on which the Government must bring the great consensus of this country, and, therefore, amnesty and self-determination. And when the State says autonomous financing, our response must be amnesty and self-determination. And when they tell us, our answer has to be, again, "Amnesty and self-determination, because the rest already has a space to discuss, because, if the PSOE has forty-four proposals, it can put thirty to the premise and fourteen to the bilateral table to fill all the transfers, because at this dialog table, because at this negotiating table, we are going to talk about the conflict and, therefore, we are going to bring amnesty and the right to self-determination. And we're skeptical, and we know that it's going to be long and it's going to be difficult, and it was recognized today by President Torra himself, and it's clear that the counterpart doesn't seem to want to move forward. And today we're back to see it. Because we can't guarantee the sincerity that a table like this requires to pull forward, because no one can say, today, that this will be the final table that will allow us to exercise the right to self-determination, but we don't give up, nor do we give up: back there, back there, back there once and again, and always with the dial like the flag. I, together, as proposers of the young man, can only thank them that, despite the statements full of doubts that they have made on the way, despite the fact that it deprecates Mrs. Artadi's intervention this morning, today they embrace the table, finally, because this is a_mess for all Catalans, because this is a_mess to the service of the country, where we bring the great consensus; a_mess where we will only have strength if there is a mobilized country; a_mess where we will only advance if Catalonia continues to govern for an independent government and not a Barcelona government. Mrs. Geis, I finish, I let'macabar-ho' make quoting Marta Rovira: « We always go out reflected from home. Let us never conjugate the adversary, let us renounce those interests or gestures that neither improve the lives of the people nor make us come close to winning. And we take the flag of the dialect, uncomplex, and we walk to vote the fireplace to vote and win. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.172.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.173.0	Good afternoon. In order not to confuse the adversaries, you don't get the way you want the gallows. We, in general terms, would vote in favour of this motion, but they know perfectly well that, and on the dialect, on the question they raise, we clearly say, the UPC does not share its strategy of pursuing all the independentist efforts in a_measuring between governments, between the Government of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra and the Government of PSOE and United We can. We think it's a mistake to get all the expectations here. First, because it will have a more than likely settlement situation of the regime; it is our opinion. And to us, making the comparison, which has already been done and which is perhaps a little sweaty... but which reminds us very much of the similarity with the process of statutory reform, with the good music of Zapatero's words, reminds us very much of that situation. And, in memory, it is also important to put on the table that the independenceists are clear that, at that time, if anything marked the difference, it was the ability, from below, not to engage all expectations in an agreement and in a statutory reform. And thanks to that, thanks to the consultations, thanks to which everyone already knows that it passed later, we were able to convert the fracture of the statutory reform into the revolt that brought us to the U of October. Therefore, the CUP would like us to be wrong about the expectations that they fly... that independence takes us on this table between governments. And we bet to keep, from below, organized what is most likely..., the answer to the most likely frustration that will bring us this table between governments, to which we do not have any prospect and which we understand to be the symptom of agreement between institutions: agreement to the Government of the Spanish State, presuppositionary agreement here and presuppositionary agreement to the Barcelona Assembly. So, we can't vote but to many of the questions they raise, but we do want to look at point 5, which we won't support because we think it's a mistake. We bet, in fact, it was a proposal of the CUP, for an agreement for amnesty, for rights, for freedom; we don't bet for a small independence, which exclusively listens to itself and which, therefore, excloses all those people – speaking of the CEO –, that more than 70_percent of the population that knows perfectly well that the resolution of the conflict will only come with the exercise of the right to self-determination. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.174.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Then, to fix his position, he has the word of the deputy Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.175.0	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon. First of all, I wanted to show my support to my colleague Lorraine Roldán, who yesterday had to endure that a councilman from Esquerra Republicana told him to yell at him because he deserved it. Well, look, no, Mr. Bosch, no woman deserves to be yelled at. And many Members of this Parliament are already fed up with macho attitudes. [[Greetings.]] When you read this motion, the first thing you think is: Has Pedro Sánchez read it to you? Did your CSP partners send it to you? Is the President of Spain really going to make a negotiating table with those who are going to vote in favour of all these barbarities and insults to our country? Obviously, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, in his spare time, can meet with whomever he wants, but what he cannot do on behalf of all the Spaniards is to meet with a gentleman who is no longer a Member and, by extension, is not president of the Generalitat either. And much less, to bow to him as we have had to suffer today the shame of seeing how they bow their heads to a gentleman who no longer defends his own, who for that reason mounts us today this small number, because they have taken away his deputy's record and are giving themselves codaços to see who stays at his post. Look, what he does in this motion, among other things, is that the decisions of the Central Electoral Board and the Supreme Court are a coup d'état – they say « judicial, but coup d'état, after all. Well, look, what the Central Electoral Board does is apply an article from the LOREG introduced precisely by the PSOE. If Mr. Pedro Sánchez feels very well that they call his party coups, great, but that he stops humiliating us all Catalans by gathering with a gentleman whose sad legacy is to go to cut roads by official car with bodyguards and a series of articles of low literary quality that have been classified as supremacist and racist by most groups in the European Parliament. A gentleman who ended up disenfranchised by disobedience by not taking off some banners from the Generalitat. And Valle-Inclán said that the spurt is the mixture of the tragic and the grotesque. Well, look, I don't think of a better definition for what is happening in Catalonia: the grotesque, the deputies of the separatist parties put it, and, tragically, we put it all Catalans, who have been paying for their majaderias for years. The motion begins with a classic: "The conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State is a conflict of political nature that can only be resolved with democratic means and through dialogue and negotiation. I translate: we want to do and undo what we want for so long that we are embezzling public money by leaping at us the laws or disobeying the judgments of the courts. By the way, you speak of democratic tools, and I remind you that the judiciary is one of the fundamental pillars of any democracy. It is the judiciary that ensures, precisely, that the rulers cannot do what they want. I mean, it's the best way to make sure that no government is going to turn into a tyranny. And that is one of the great differences between a rule of law and an authoritarian state: that the rulers have in front of other powers that prevent them from imposing their will. Reading your motion, it is clear that for you Montesquieu is absolutely overrated and that the division of powers, well, is for when it comes to you, that it is not usually ever. You believe above the laws and justice and consider that only those judgments that are favorable to you must be obeyed. And when a sentence doesn't like, they come, we get one of their numbers here in Parliament – that in the best case – or they're going to cut down streets, burn containers and destroy businesses. You in your motion are talking about the cut in civil and political rights. What we have to endure! You guys are talking about rights cuts. Look, it is you who cut rights when you prevent free movement, day after day. You cut rights when you decide that citizens' deputies cannot go to which municipalities and even lower a Republican Esquerra mayor to tell us what it is that we cannot be there. You cut rights when you prevent most Catalan students from attending in their native language, something that doesn't happen anywhere in the world, for something to be. You cut rights when you prevent Catalan Civil Society or the young people from S'Ha Afinet! they can carry out their actions by reaching even physical aggression. And you cut rights when you prevent cops from staying in hotels and expel them as did a Mayor of Convergence in Calella. The truth is that we do not expect anything from you, because we know what you are, but we would hope that the President of Spain will not humiliate us any more by meeting with this gentleman who, as I say, no longer defend his own.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.176.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.177.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.178.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.179.0	Yes, thank you, President. You have been a mantra according to which – and they repeat it very often – he does not allow himself to talk about everything in Parliament. Well, this place exactly with the same content and with the same accords, it's been presented about seven million times in the last two years. A top to the conclusion that the problem is not that it's allowed to talk about the monotheme, it's that in reality they don't know how to talk about something else. They say they're coughing up. I, lifted up, see them not; now, with coughs, it must be recognized that it is. [[Rialles.]] And even in this they are extraordinarily Spanish or Spanish, honoring that phrase so familiar with the morals of the Alcoyano. Says the legend that the year 1948 the Alcoyano lost thirteen to zero and that the referee syllabled the party's end. And that the players started to protest vigorously because they wouldn't give themselves two minutes' discount because they were convinced that they could still pay back the game. Well, you're exactly the same. They think they can still pay a match, they have the morals of the Alcoyano, but they don't realize that they're in a monotheme that won't bring us anywhere. I'm going back to reality all of a sudden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy Gemma Geis has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.181.0	Well, I appreciate all the interventions. When I was studying in Montesquieu I remembered that I was talking about the principle of separation of powers, the delegated power, the retained power, how to mistrust the courts, how the contentious jurisdiction passed from executing the judgments to the courts and moving it to the administrative jurisdiction, which still exists, and how I was talking about the concept of "revolutionary dissent". But I sure as hell had to be in Matrix, and everything I studied wasn't supposed to be real to you. As for the reports, therefore, to the Member of Parliament, Mrs Granados, I also thank you for all of this. The tot does not confuse 'the depth in which each defends their positions. We defend self-determination, we defend amnesty and, therefore, we believe that there must be dialogue, effectively, but neither generate false expectations, lack transparency and believe that this political conflict that has been going on for many years and that even more in the most controversial situations has not been guaranteed to apply it, so I can really get back. But in any case, we'll never get out of the dialog table because we've never done it. In relation to Deputy Marc Parés, he knows that we have spoken – I also did it with the Granados – about the papers and he knows that we are close. That they're dull, surely, that we couldn't agree. But it is true that when you speak we cannot accept these ideas, because we are part of the Government of the State and, therefore, as part of the Government of the State we have a responsibility. So, if you ask me and tell me you're in the state government and you have a responsibility, then you won't be on the other side tomorrow when we legitimately defend independence and want to negotiate which conditions and which guarantees, which are not to be extended. And in relation to the Member of Parliament, Mrs Sánchez, in relation to the fifth point, if we put in context when the motion was drafted, please refer to the table of dialogue between the independent groups and President Torra and the entities, which marked who should be the conditions for President Torra to be represented by these groups and those entities. And they fixed self-determination and amnesty. I was thinking about it. And that doesn't mean that, effectively, the right to self-determination has a consensus of eighty per cent to the Catalan society and, therefore, has to work in favour of this consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.183.0	To ask for a separate vote. To ask, for one band, point 5 and, for another, 2, 4, 6 bis and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.184.0	What can you vote together in this second block?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.185.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.186.0	Val. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Separate vote? I take it you don't. [[Long break.]] Well, let's get to the vote. Let's vote first on point 5 of the motion. Point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 63 votes to 64, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on the block that makes up the points 2, 4, 6 bis and 8. 2, 4, 6 bis and 8. The vote begins. These points were approved by 67 votes to 57, with 7 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 74 votes to 57, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into vocational training]] [[302-00185/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on vocational training, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Widow's remorse.]] To expose it has the word the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.187.0	President, MPs and MPs... I would also like to thank the assistance of entities linked to the dual professional training that they are accompanying us today. We divided this young man into two parts: one, on the better of training and the labour market, and another, on dual vocational training in concrete terms. The motivation of this young man is because we are very concerned about the lack of job expectations of our young man and of certain collections in complicated enlargement, such as students with special educational needs or seniors of 45 years of age, to facilitate their retraining and professional rehabilitation. The twilight between these collections is striking, and, what is worse, structural. In the previous inquiry, the fact is that the labour market is still a classic market, where the offer and demand are found. The problem with this market is that it is very imperfect, given that there is an asymmetric information effect. The economic agents who find themselves – workers and entrepreneurs – do not have the necessary information to make the right and rational decisions. This imbalance is much more evident among the youth population, who first access the labour market. The confluence between aspects of personal motivation – of vocations and professional departures adapted to these desires – and not knowing in which markets – local, national or international – can find alternatives to their choices, is very risky. Businesses don't have it easy either, so on many occasions they don't find on the job market the professionals they need and they have to go looking for them at other markets. We have therefore put forward a range of proposals which increase the information available to young people so that they can take their vital, training and professional decisions at the lowest possible risk. We have done so in the present context that we believe is our natural, European, so we believe that our future must be the European Union, and that we must leave behind, once and for all, aspirations and demands of feudalizing smell. We must prepare our children for the important challenges they face. It's not us, we haven't had all the generations. The difference now is the speed at which the changes are produced. That's why we need to prepare them to be more flexible than ever. We don't have to take for the future, we just have to prepare ourselves properly. What's certain is that the domain of the idioms will be essential. We'd have to worry about what our children really need and what businesses need: a good level of English. We need to secure the Catalan domain, but also that of Spanish, English and Chinese as a minimum. We should work because our young people have equal opportunities at the time of learning a language, and it is not – as it is now – a question of economic capacity. The other part of the movement is dedicated to dual vocational training. In this case, they recognize that there is a certain offer in our education system, we consider it all insufficient. We recognize the effort made in the offer of traditional vocational training, but we think that the alternative of dual vocational training is much better, for various reasons. We know that young people recognize that the current education system does not adequately prepare them to find work, and we know that because they see its weakness in this model: the tourist tax in Catalonia, like all of Spain, is completely inexhaustible. We need to recognize it, so we can just put it between all the solutions. We also know that, for another band, 85_percent of companies have many difficulties in finding certain profiles for very concrete work places. It is a clue to the level of English so low, and that students with specialized profiles such as logistics or STEMs do not arrive there. We know that other European countries have boldly, uncomplicatedly, aspired to dual vocational training and are successful. We know that many years ago these types of training have been put into practice and that they have high levels of employment and social recognition, in those countries where they apply: Germany, France, Austria, to give examples. The result is always the same, a success; a success that can be applicable to all collections and to all territories. Cal, yes, give him the necessary institutional clutch. Globalisation brings us to a scene where we will have to get out of our comfort zone every time with more frequency, and accept risks in our professional life. We must prepare our young man to compete in a global market of talent. For this reason, we have requested, among others, the effective deployment of Law 10/2015, professional training and qualification, and of the Public Agency of Training and Professional Qualifications. We have also called for intensified collaboration with enterprises, without which dual vocational training cannot increase their training offer; for increased information on dual vocational training; for the promotion of interaction and the development of training experiences to the rest of the Spanish communities and to the European Union. The market that our young people must hold at the bottom must be as wide as possible. We wanted to ask the counselor to declare the state of education, because we believe that if there is a battle in which we have to engage is precisely this, it is to do it all folded and with a strategic view, it is precisely what we have to fight for. In short, what we ask is fact, not money. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.189.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good late. Citizens present today a motion on the FP, an area that we will not tire of repeating that it is strategic for the country, that it is decisive, not only to guarantee that specialized training that is of quality, as a tool of progress, of occupation, but also to prevent unemployment at low-skilled levels, to prevent social exclusion and also to promote equal opportunities. From another point of view, it can also help strengthen economic recovery or change to a much more knowledge-based product model, digitalization, but also, and in another area that certainly does not arise in this text, to improve the recognition of work experience; the accreditation of professional qualifications of many people who, after a lifetime working, therefore do not have it, and that at the time they lose their work in an advanced age, so that they can reintegrate into the labour market is very necessary. Therefore, to say that it is obvious that vocational training has many different perspectives, from the world of the enterprise, from the teaching, but it has given us the feeling that the proposal that Ciutadans presents today is very or very much focused on the world of the enterprise and the market. It's a very liberal concept that we have, so, in this case, we haven't just shared. We share, yes, that especially in vocational training we need to strengthen links between educational centres and also the world of the enterprise, as well as with social workers in the territory, the municipal administration, and all this to work together in the preparation of a training offer map. Also a report of qualification needs, which we take advantage of in order to urge again to draw up it; we have been asking for it for years and we do not succeed in making it a reality for this government. But we also understand that we need to regulate, as we defend in another way, the rights and rights of people in practice, of entrepreneurs' learning, in order to avoid precisely these abuses in the employment relationship. And also the conditions that companies have to guarantee to the format centres; for example, regulate the figure of the business tutor or the business tutor for each student. But curiously, this thought, therefore, was not accepted. Perhaps the regulation, the control, the guarantee of rights to avoid this labor abuse, therefore, did not just please Ciutadans. In fact, he speaks little of learners, speaks little of students, speaks enough of workmanship. Maybe liberalism was that. On the subject of languages, we have presented a goal in the line of strengthening language skills in general, the learning of a third language to the education system, but we specifically add FP. The FP is not a compulsory teaching and, therefore, we say: "In those cycles that require the mastery of a foreign language to continue training, especially, or job insertion in the sector, such as chemistry, computer science, among many others. But neither has it been accepted, and here we don't understand why they don't see that they need to adapt training to the needs of each cycle, right? , to each territory, to each cycle formed. It is difficult to want to apply trilingualism to the cycle of Agràries, or if, perhaps, to students who make Hoteleria or Tourism on the Girona coast perhaps they should strengthen French more than not English. Therefore, we strengthen these linguistic skills, but we adapt them to the needs of the territory and to the needs of each cycle, with flexibility and also pedagogical criteria. After entering dual training, insist on the deployment of the 2015 law, the PS and Professional Qualification Law, which we again take advantage of to report that it has not been deployed. There was a lack of ambition from this government, a lack of diligence to deploy a law five years ago, which was approved with a great consensus, and more so to boost a model of FP that is key to the country's future. But it is not so much the Public Agency for Vocational Training and Qualification that we had agreed in this legislature that it would be in the May of last year. And you now agree to agree to it and to agree to it from here to new months. We were very surprised, because an agency that was to be in 2016, that we agreed in this legislature that we would have it in May, now you agree that we will have it in New Months. You see where we are, from here to new months. Therefore, who governs incompetent and who opposes it, his own. Therefore, we at this point will abstain. They're talking about universalizing the dual FP. We have presented an issue that called for the resources needed to boost this increase in the public offer and, moreover, we say that this enlargement is a priority for the public offer. We already know that they don't like it, that's why they didn't accept it, but we understand that this is also fighting segregation. And, on the other hand, therefore, to replenish the importance of the faculty that seeks time from which there is no prospector. So he also has a recompense supplement that he doesn't always have. To say that we will abstain at the point where they call for a dual FP platform in all autonomous communities. In fact, the ministry already exists tea: totofp. It is. I would also like to say that we will vote against the fact that companies are being subsidized to have students in training, but on the other hand, in favour of subsidies to collectors with difficulty in accessing the labour market. We understand that this is to encourage vocational training and, therefore, to reduce resources, which these assumptions, therefore, do not contemplate. And, therefore, end up undermining this government's agony state, which has made a pitiful balance, between which there is this entanglement and lack of ambition and diligence to boost formation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr José Rodríguez has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.191.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank my partner, the Jordi Albert, who was the deputy who, in fact, carried the negotiation and all the brute work of the... – « brute in the sense of « hard», and of this complex and lengthy motion, and to excuse it, because he has had a personal unexpectedness that prevents him from being in this hemisphere, and I will try to supply it in the best possible way, but the true work of this motion, on behalf of the Republican Group, has brought it to my partner. I want to say one thing first, there are many points that we will vote for, basically because there are points that the government is already doing. I won't list a few. For example, when you ask that the Feina Activa portal can be shared, this portal already generates an XML file, which is an Internet file sharing format – I come from this profession and I don't understand –, and I can use it and I'm using many other search engines, any search engine – which you have named or any other – can ask for and hold it on a daily basis and hold the Feina Activa training offer. On the subject of orientation days for students of ESO quarter, for example, we are not only making them, but we want to make them better. There is now a delegation from the Department of Education, the Department of Work and various companies to Lió, to the Lió Teaching Hall, which is a hall of excellence in this type of professional orientation for secondary students. We also ask that we apply the axes of the European Employment Strategy. They are already subsumed in the Catalan Strategy for Employment, both in the field of vocational guidance, professional qualification, promotion of occupation, application of the Youth Guarantee. And here I want to focus on a point of excellence, the New Opportunities program, for young people who are in a situation of social exclusion, of risk, with a high level of vulnerability; it's a program of excellence that is working very well, precisely, with the most vulnerable young people, and that's what we're doing, doing this government. We will therefore vote in favour of all this request for the application of the European Employment Strategy. Why? Because it forms part of what this government already believes. Also the subject of promoting mobility, voting in favour, but always within the framework of collective bargaining; we must not forget that we cannot supplant the role that social agents have to make. We also agree in the struggle against the poor workers, but here I think it's a trap. The poor of the workers... is to say, today, working and being poor is not the fault of the Government of the Generalitat or the lack of policy of the Government of the Generalitat. There have been two labor reforms or two cycles of labor reforms, there has been a crisis for a real estate cylinder, there is a Spanish labour legislation that promotes a temporary and low-wage contract, and that, for many of us from the Generality or from the Government of Catalonia, or even from the local administrations, this, this loose, we keep it above, and it's called Spanish labour legislation. Clearly, I understand you're not going in, because it's opposition to governance, and its model is different from ours, but here's a problem, and it's true. And since the government of the generality, it wants to do it and push itself, and that's why we're voting for all this fight against the poor. So, having a Catalan reference wage, a minimum Catalan reference wage agreed with social workers, working from collective bargaining because the wages of this country are more worthy, and working from inspection. That's what's happening, Councilman El Homrani's commitment is clear in this sense. He also asks us to explain the FP Law. And it is true that we believe that, before this legislature is over, the Professional Training and Qualification Agency must be functioning; and that is why we will vote in favour of some aspects of the dual FP. We have two advisors who are the advisors who most believe in the unification of vocational training subsystems. They're betting, their teams are on the move and they're gonna want to work on this line. We don't understand the rebroadcasting of some of our papers at the police station. For example, what is asked is that... – things that are really fan and reject us –, as, for example, asks us that the Butlletí of young people and the market of work..., is done quarterly, but well. She also asks us to create another group of National Council of Donations; there is already a group of young people in Business and Economy, so we have not just heard it. And one last thing – as they always have their obsessions – he didn't talk about "siringuitos," he didn't talk about TV3, but he told us another time to go against immersion, indirectly. Do you know what the best option in this country is to access a place of work when a person like me, in a bar where everyone talks about castle and family that we only talk about in castle? He immersed her in linguistics. I wouldn't be in this Parliament without that. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mr Lluís Font.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.193.0	President, MPs and MPs... if I have time, I'd like to comment on five questions, but before I do, I'd like to explain to you what I'm dealing with this young man. I'm glad, because before a citizen's deputy gave us a compliment. He told me he was grotesque, and I felt like a character from Goya or the Goyescas of Enrique Granados, and that's a fall to deal with the issue we're dealing with right now. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, I'd like to start thanking Congressman Martí Pachamé for his always good willingness to wake up, to look for points..., went to say convergence [[relays]] , satisfied for everyone. Secondly, to Deputy Jordi Albert, because there has been the cement that has allowed a group of groups to coincide, and to Deputy José Rodríguez because he has faced this issue at the last moment also with this soul. I believe that this is the hope that some time has been said, and that Congresswoman Eva Granados used to call it, to seek solutions to concrete issues. That said, I'd like to get into it. I think one of the issues that you plan on facing these problems is, sometimes, the difficult relationship between work and education, between the logic of the world produced by companies and what is close to the education system. And here are two counterposed and painful perils both of them. One, from the world of education to think that our students, in the way of the United Kingdom, are the good saviors to whom we have to ward off the perverse relationship with entities seeking purposes that are contradictory to education. In any case, if this is produced, what we need to do is to help them think, reason, go to the bottom of the question, not to let them out of these contexts, because this relationship, which is already going on, is good and can be beneficial. But the other extreme is also positive, to think that the education and vocational training system is a simple appendage of the production sector, and therefore that it must be at the mercy of contingencies, of the more... things, of the concrete moment. We need to find a way, as they say in the castle, to unite wills, to make the logic more pragmatic, more rich to build, of the world of the enterprise, to make possible the work, and the educational logic that is of the present and of the future and that thinks of talent, find a point of finding without giving up anything. I think until we find you appropriate in this binomial, I insist, work-education, we won't end up facing the issues like the dual FP. Second, or third, this young man raises the question of educational orientation. Educational orientation is not simply organizing activities in concrete courses. I think it's a process of monitoring students, students, who value their own abilities, skills, multiple talent, various abilities of each school. On the other hand, the logic of the present and future occupation, and also the values of a person who configures it as a person, and help each individual hard to the kingdoms of his existence and to face life from his own premises. It's not an accumulation of techniques, it's not just, in concrete moments of formation, passing a test, and from there extrapolating decisions about the future, but it's a way to educate our young people. And here we have to recognize that we have a point of escape to the education system. Between the 15th and the 18th years there is a part of the students who escape from the conventional system, who leave the studies, which do not culminate, and this is reflected in early school dropout rates. And here the professional training there is an answer. Not exclusively; we are again going to the dilemma of work and education: there are theses that say that a product model based on little training at the time of contracting people favors and encourages this abandonment. Therefore, a joint work of the productive sector, the business sector and the education sector, the FP occupies centrality. In fourth place, I would like to acknowledge the work that Irene Rigau, in other times, has done to boost the dual FP. I am very happy with the current consensus on the subject, but the old rockers we saw some years ago, we have to recognize that it was then relatively unpopular, that there was suspicion, that it was a cheap work and that it perverted the model. So, I'm glad it's consensual now, it seems to us that it's a great option, and so, we have to find the ways to move it forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.194.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, and in order to fix its position, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.195.0	Thank you, President. Mr Martí, we could agree with the guiding criteria and the wording of the proposals, but most of the measures are little concrete and show little knowledge in the field of education. In the interview he was talking about an outdated education system, and we agree that a review is required. But in making proposals, forget what the professionals and students say: as a general review of the education model, and above all, reverse the lack of resources. And precisely, this lack of resources is what we wanted to do in the negotiation of assumptions, agreeing to the deployment of the Professional Training Agency of Catalonia to develop policies of effective orientation and a greater public projection of its offer and of the format and employment success. In the field of work, you proposed measures such as encouraging wage transparency or staff selection to avoid discrimination on grounds of sex or age, which we share, but we remember that there are mechanisms already in place against discrimination, and we believe in the need to take more concrete and courageous measures, which vagrate the structure, reinforcing education in terms of equality and equity, and not discussing measures that deal with the issue in detail. You have also proposed to push for measures to replace people who are low, so as not to interrupt the activity. Do they really think that this will help the purpose they pursue from conciliation? It gives the feeling that they have a great mix of concepts and are looking to impose a liberal model that has become better for workers and workers. About the bonuses. You propose transfers of public money to companies, that is, that the citizenry be who finances workers and workers; when the concept of dual VET should be that of negotiation and collaboration between the educational and business world, that is, with the co-responsibility of enterprises. But focusing on dual VET, as they say the day-to-day training of our young people, the education system suffers from a difficult problem of academic and professional orientation, and this is where the proposals should go. This is the real problem, which is not the solution with which you present, for example, an information campaign to search for work or information days to give to know the different lines of occupation. I recall that many of the proposals that they make are reflected in the Catalan Strategy for Vocational Training and Qualification and in the background document for the Catalan model of the dual FP, as a result of a negotiation process due to the end of 2019. Therefore, we are not supposed to be better educated when what they are doing is talking about a work model where our young people are treated as precarious resources to the service of the market and production. And I'd like to make two points to the government. We expect you to quickly execute the agreement to deploy the Professional Training Agency. And remember that we are still waiting for the creation of the Evaluation Agency, which was announced in 2018 by Councillor Bargalló, since it would bring important elements for the best that are proposed and that we share in general lines. Talk about the universalization of the dual FP, but, as I said, they do it without meeting the demands of professionals working there and saying that we need to solve the structural problems of the FP, such as lack of public places and reversal. In the interview they felt many figures, but they neglected to mention one very important one, and it is that we are the most underfunded area of Europe in education. We agree that the basic problems must be solved, but we ask that you continue to listen to the educational community, because, as they say, it can be counterproductive, for example, to universalize a model in an already precarious labour market, that it is unable to generate training structures for companies and can even precarise students. Finally, we invite parliamentary groups that practice their practice of listening to the educational community and demand that the Government, for any legislative reform, listen to the professional and trade unions, who do not understand why the promotion of the dual FP without the value of the model is intensifying. If we want things to be done right, count on who they work with day by day, lifting up a system of education that is currently deficient and obsolete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.196.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.197.0	Thank you, President. From the escó. Mirin, we are responding to this motion from Ciutadans making a defense clinging to the public professional formation; a public professional formation that today, from our point of view, is in real danger of dismantling for the policies of the Government of the Generality. And in this market..., precisely, in this market of dismantling – precisely –, instead of increasing resources, of making an important and qualified investment in public vocational training, what we are proposing is a model of dual training, of which the Ciutadans Group is focused on its own motion, which, in the first place, we must see that it does not fit with what is the productive structure of Catalonia. It's a copied, literally translated process or model that doesn't fit Catalonia's productive structure. On the other hand, it does not guarantee in any way an effective supervision and evaluation of the format spaces, of the practical spaces, in which students or students of professional training develop their practical training in companies. On the other hand, it does not guarantee in absolute terms the global formation, the integral formation, that a person needs from a professional point of view to enter into global competitions in the labor market, and it returns to a very specialized and very specific formation, hardly transferable out of that particular company. And lastly, it supposes a drastic and important reduction of everything that public education needs, which is an increase of resources, an increase of teachers and to train it in order to offer this public education, this integral formation, and to lead – to lead – from public centres what are the practices in the production centres. On the other hand, we also see in this young man that there are initiatives that we have seen from the government so as to break what is the space of public vocational training, to move a part of it out of the Department of Education and, thus, to facilitate what would be in the future a privatization, in the hands of agents different from education, of the professional offer. Mirin, escort: they listen to the unions, they listen to the educational community, they listen to the unions and they pay attention to the union response that, for example, the coming week will have to our country in defense of public vocational training. I think it's our mission, our obligation, to listen to the unions, to listen to the educational community, to the teaching community, and to convey their demands here. And, of course, we cannot vote in favour of a new attempt to separate vocational training, to be also a scener – as we must all be in the country – from the linguistic normalization of our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.198.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.199.0	Thank you, President. We fully share the meaning of the motion. A motion aimed at seeking improvements in access to the labour market for young people through the education system and, in particular, through the dual VET through various improvements; through information campaigns in compulsory secondary education on how to seek employment; by updating regularly information on the situation of the labour market for children under 25 years of age; also, and for us very interesting, by improving and deepening the dual VET, so that we can not only reduce the premature abandonment of this type of young people who opt for this type of education, but also to improve their training, so that we can ensure that these young people have a professional future within the labour market. We also find it very positive that subsidies can be granted for access to people with difficulties in reintegrating into the labour market and that, because of their special circumstances, they have difficulties in seeking a new opportunity; through the dual FP they seek this new opportunity. In short, we believe that this is a good motion, which seeks substantial improvements in access to the labour market through the education system in general, and that is why we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, to position himself on the exams, has the new word the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.201.0	Well, first of all, give thanks to all the groups that have sent papers. To highlight above all the good predisposition of deputies Jordi Albert and Esther Niubó to negotiate them, and the transactions that we have finished formalizing. I would say, respect what has been said here, that you repeat that... as I have finished, I have ended up with a fact, not a verb, right? ; and, of course, to say here that it is the 'palau of the word, so it is a tough little bit, but what I have heard – and, above all, in some interventions – is a lot of money and a little bit of fact; very little, eh? The truth is that it's very little, and the one our young man wants, the one who wants the youngest of twenty-five years, it's a lot of facts; fewer words and more facts. The truth is, I'm very pragmatic. I don't know if this label exists somewhere, but at the end of the day, the question is that there are a lot of people who are at the time, that there are a lot of people who are at the time and who are less than twenty-five years old, and that there are a lot of programs and there is a lot of money, but what is certain is that you can't reduce the number of under-twenty-five years old, and what we're giving here is a series of alternatives, a series of proposals, that you've been on the road to reducing these very important taxes. And we're putting together a series of proposals on a model that is a model of success for many European countries, that deepens into an element that may not be the Catalan product model, but it's a model that existed here a long time ago: they learn it. The learning here has been, practically, and from many aspects, a very similar thing to what is being spoken here in dual vocational training, and it is a model that is well-catalyzed. I own the product of this model. I have done vocational training and I have followed, I have been learning in many offices and, well, I think that vocational training and, in a way, it is from a personal point of view; it is a way of making it everything that has given me and what it meant to me. Professional training for me was an opportunity, and so I want to leave it too. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.202.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.203.0	Yes, President, separate votes. I'll take it for blocks, see if it's possible. One band, 1.5, 1.10, 2.2, 2.4.4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.204.0	1.5, 1.10, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.205.0	2.2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.206.0	2.2, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.207.0	2.4.4. I for another band: 1.4, 1.6.5, 1.7, 1.11, 2.3, 2.5...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.208.0	Congresswoman, I think we'd be out of time if we voted for everything separately, because I think... I had other petitions that didn't agree with these. I understand that Mrs. Niubó was going to tell me exactly the same thing, for that matter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.209.0	Points, subpoints and... [[Widow's remorse. Carles Riera Albert asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.210.0	Yes, yes, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.211.0	Thank you, President. In this sense it was to make the Ple's pocket a little easier. For our part, the whole point 2 can be voted together. All sub-points related to '1.6, too. I, I'm left with her, separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.212.0	There are deputies from different groups who don't have the head. So... [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.213.0	To ask for the separate vote, the truth is that it is very complex for the subdivision of the different points. Therefore, it would be, because you are very clear and do not find yourself with other situations, points, subpoints and attached letters. I know it's hard, but there's no way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.214.0	Okay. So let's start with the principle and vote on point 1. Point 1.1. The vote begins. Point 1.1 was approved by 63 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. Let's vote point 1.2. The vote begins. This point was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.3. The vote begins. Point 1.3 has been approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour against and no abstentions. We're voting point 1.4. The vote begins. Point 1.4 was approved by 121 votes to 8, with no abstentions. And now we vote on point 1.5. The vote begins. Point 1.5 was rejected by 58 votes to 64, with 7 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.6. The vote begins. Point 1.6_was approved by 125 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.6.1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And now we vote on point 1.6.2. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.6.3. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.6.4. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.6.5. The vote begins. This point was approved by 117 votes to 7, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.7. The vote begins. Point 1.7 was rejected by 40 votes to 89, with no abstentions. And now we vote on point 1.8. The vote begins. Point 1.8_has been approved unanimously: 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.9. The vote begins. The 1.9_point was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we're voting now on 1.10. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 57 votes to 61, with 11 abstentions. And we're voting now on 1.11. The vote begins. This point was approved by 121 votes to 7, with no abstentions. We're voting point 2.1 now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 108 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. We vote in point 2.2. The vote begins. Point 2.2_was approved by 118 votes to 4, with 7 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2.3. The vote begins. Point 2.3_has been rejected by 40 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting 2.4 now. The vote begins. 2.4_has been approved by 125 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We vote on point 2.4.1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 65 votes to 64, with no abstentions. And at this point, we're voting now for the letter. The vote begins. The letter a, 2.4.1a. This point was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. And now the b letter of this point. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 64 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. Let's move to point 2.4.2. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We're now voting on the letter from this point, 2.4.2.a. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.4.2.b. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to 4, with no abstentions. And now we vote on the c, the letter c of this point. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to 4, with no abstentions. And now 2.4.3. The vote begins. This point was approved by 125 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We now vote on 2.4.4. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 41 votes to 65, with 23 abstentions. And now we're voting 2.5. The vote begins. This point was approved by 118 votes to 11, with no abstentions. And now 2.5.1. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. And now 2.5.2. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 40 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2.6. The vote begins. This point was approved by 116 votes to 12, with no abstentions. And now 2.6.1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 118 votes to 11, with no abstentions. And now 2.6.2. The vote begins. This point was approved by 117 votes to 11, with no abstentions. Is 2.7 able to vote together? [[Pause.]] Yeah, huh? 2.7, shall we vote on the 2.7 conjunction? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Well... [[Greetings.]] We therefore vote on 2.7. The vote begins. 2.7 in its conjunction was approved by 125 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. And finally we vote on 2.8. The vote begins. The 2.8_point was approved by 124 votes to 4, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on territorial inequalities in Catalonia]] [[300-00225/12]] We're still on the order of the day. The next point is the question to the government about the lack of a just financing... Sorry, this is the next one. Before there is the question to the Government about territorial inequalities in Catalonia – now yes – presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. To expose it has the word of Congressman Marc Parés. When he wants to. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.215.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies..., councillor, well, look, do a thing of six_months I myself made an inquiry to Councillor Jordan about rural Catalonia; then it was the fire of the Bank of the Ebre that justified that intervention and the subsequent motion. We are here again to bring the problems of this Oblate Catalonia, and to ask you, Counselor, because we understand that this problem requires a cross-cutting response, a response from the government's joint, but also because we find that the department that we believe should play a central role in this problem, that is the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, so it seems that it is not a priority department of the government, to judge by the assumption that it is also assigned to it, and in any case we find that it has not been able to make significant progress in all those issues that we approved last July. Miri, we believe that the territorial expression of inequalities is one of the main problems of the country, a problem that has become structural and that is the consequence of the lack of public and private attention and investment in all those territories of low population density. This is rural Catalonia, the Catalonia of those areas with a population density of less than three hundred_ inhabitants_per_quilòmetre_quadrat, the Catalonia of the small municipalities, the Catalonia of the micro-populations. Certainly, he will advise, I suppose he knows the demands of the Assembly of Micropopules collected in his proposal for a state. The micropopulations only saw a 1.2_per_cent of the population, but managed 35_per_cent of the territory of Catalonia. How do they value the status of micro-populations from the government? What are they doing to respect in terms of taxation, urban planning, housing? Well, this rural Catalonia, even if it isn't Catalonia, we have seen most Catalans and Catalans, but it is Catalonia that provides us with environmental services, resources, produce food, which preserves our landscape diversity, our biodiversity, the Catalonia of our camps, our forests and our sea. Yes, even the low density of the population, a good part of these territories are not free from speculative dynamics, which directly affect access to housing, either through second residences or tourist apartments. We said it six months ago and we repeat it now: we believe that we must urgently deploy the Law of Agrarian Spaces, in order to face the abandonment of land and to prioritise agricultural activity over speculative activity. Miri, the lack of attention and inversion to the rural areas of Catalonia, in our view, clearly responds to a lack of a country model. The truth is that we want to ask her about territorial inequalities without any excuses, but, sadly, the fate has meant that the plenary in which we have to make this inquiry must be postponed for a new natural catastrophe, the drunken Gloria, which has again exposed the structural deficiencies of this oblique Catalonia, which is also the one that is always most affected by the effects of natural disasters. And we arrive here today with the people of the Ebra Delta a little higher, posing as manifest everything that should have been done and that has not been done for many years, for decades. Action to extend the protection of the delta, to stop the retreat, to return to it the sediments that are left in the pantans. But above all we need to define a new territorial model for the country's conjunction. The Lands of the Ebre and Tarragona Camp are the last country in Catalonia. He will advise, what answer do they give from the government to the people of the Lands of the Ebre that at these moments is mobilizing? We believe that natural spaces must be resourced; if not, it is impossible to manage them, to manage them in order to make compatible the preservation of the environment with the productive activity that gives life to all these territories. And it can't be that we don't just do this, we don't have resources in these territories, but we also saturate them with certain infrastructures, such as nuclear power stations or aerogenerators. And we need to plan with a sense of territorial justice the deployment of renewable energies, because the model of centralized and oligopolistic energy production, much more so with renewable energies, we believe that it is not the model. And Catalonia doesn't just wind up in the High Land and the Segarra; it's better planning. But we're on our way. In the last few years Catalonia has won 250,000 inhabitants, in the last two years, but there has been a division of businesses and the Aran that have lost people. Many of these communities, moreover, also suffer from a question of the demographic composition of this population: up to one hundred and twenty Catalan municipalities already have a percentage of veins and veins of more than sixty-five years above 30_per_cent. Our young people don't want to stay in these territories. This is a problem that concerns Parliament; we have had various motions in the last few days, we have also created an interdepartmental commission on depopulation, but what we see is that, even if there are repeated initiations, there is no action or reaction on the part of the Government, or at least not very effective. It is true that we have heard it speak to you, Counselor, and President Torra also of the project "A living country, a country of opportunity. To us the name of this project, the truth is that you attract us, that we like, but that's not enough. So far, our feeling is that this project, the "Living country, country of opportunity, is a lot of smoke but little results, or at least at the moment we don't know how to see them. If you can explain it to us, then we'll love it, too. We want a country that is territorially equitable and environmentally sustainable, and this is not achieved with macro-projects such as Barcelona World or with large infrastructure such as C-32. It is not a question of balancing the territory that distributes uniformly neither the population nor certain activities, but rather of developing the different territories from their territorial specificities, so that, visquis on visquis a Catalunya, you can have access to the same levels of income and the same levels of services. Because it turns out that this empty Catalonia is also the impoverished Catalonia. If we look at the family income available gross per inhabitant and take the middle of Catalonia as 100, then we say that Montsia is at 71; Lower Hebrew, at 75; Lower Penedès, at 78... And what comarques are located over the middle? So the Barcelones, with a 113, and the Baix Llobregat, with a 105. Or, in other words, the inhabitants of Montsia have a median income of 12,000 euros per inhabitant, the inhabitants of Barcelones have it of 19,200 euros, that is, a 60_percent more. And if we look at productivity we find the same: if we take again the index of Catalonia equal to 100, then the Lower Penedès is located at 60; the Montsià, at 61; the Upper Urgell, at 71, or the Lower Hebrew, at 74. I, on the other hand, to large metropolitan areas, such as the Barcelones, is located at 122, and to the Tarragones, at 118. Therefore, also unequal in production. And, of course, this public and private disinvestment in the territory, so it has effects, bloody effects, we understand, for the territory. And it said that territorial equity consists of access to income and the provision of services; and I left some data for what it does to the provision of services. It turns out that if you ask Tortosa for a dermatology appointment, they give you a cap of 142 days, but if you ask Vall d'Hebron for a cap of 29 days. That the waiting time for a neurology visit to the Trueta is 325 days and changing to the Hospital del Mar is 45 days. That an appointment to the uroleg in Lleida implies having to wait 118 days, while in Barcelona the waiting time is half, 61 days. We believe that these clear and blatant inequalities in access to health are explained above all because the ICS does not have a governance system, because the health system is fragmented, extremely unstructured and with a lack of criteria and direction. And what it produces, what it does is, it's also caused by an inadequate, we understand, distribution of resources... so it translates into a multiplicity of care routes that, as we see it, the waiting time is one or another. I – oh! Surprise, isn't it? – once more it is the rural areas that are most affected. Let me set another element: access to the university study. For students who have to reside outside their home for reasons of study, so a course may entail an extra cost of between five and seven thousand euros more in the year, and that makes many of them quit studying. Therefore, this is another of the problems, it is another of the comparative hardships that we find in these territories. And let's macabare also talking about mobility; mobility is another of the great problems that concern us. If we're talking public transport, the inequalities are really spectacular. The empty Catalonia is also clearly the oblique Catalonia of the trains. The problems of rail connection to the coastal and inland Girona, to the Pyrenees, to the Lands of the Ebre or to central Catalonia are serious. And, plus, a lot of these nuclei, right? , or above all the reduced population clusters, so they do not have so many guaranteed, some of them, access with wheeled transport; therefore, neither with wheeled transport can they access it. In short, a cluster of circumstances, isn't it? – access to health, access to education, availability of public transport – that make people living in Catalonia of low population density, in rural Catalonia, go high cost and generate these huge inequalities over the territory. Counselor, how do they give an answer? What do we do to find solutions in this Catalonia that so many territories manage and that doesn't have the majority of the population? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.216.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.217.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., MP Parés, I will begin my answer to your question with two words that I am sure you will agree that they are the key words, two concepts that will allow us to address everything that has just been put to us, two words that are cross-cutting and territorial. In fact, it is the sum of these two concepts that gives meaning to the public policies that we carry out from the Department of the Presidency and, in particular, the strategies that are due to the term from the Secretary of Local Administrations. We are a government with a municipalist vocation, and from the Department of the Presidency we want to be the gateway to local government in Catalonia. We just want to highlight the cross-cutting nature of local administration and, at the same time, give it more relevancy. And what we totally agree on is that we need to act so that Catalonia, our country, is a country of opportunity, regardless of where you were born or the territory you are living. I have no doubt that this is one of the top priorities of this government. In fact, there are many public policies that are due to the end of all councils in order to ease territorial balance and equity. In fact, the policies aimed at territorial balance have been, in more or less degree, on the agenda of the different governments of the Government of Catalonia. And, as I said, working for territorial equality is a priority of this government, because the dizzying changes that this century has certainly brought to our societies at all levels, in principle, have further accentuated the differences in demography, in the economy and in the development of our rural municipalities and in urban and metropolitan areas. And I say in principle because I am convinced that many of these changes can be converted into opportunities to facilitate economic growth, to also reverse depopulation and, ultimately, to improve the standard of living of citizens in the context of the territory. And it is with this conviction that since the department has been betting on the territorial dynamism strategy approved by the government last May, you have not spoken about it, known as the "Living Country, Country of Opportunity; a strategy with full coordination with the Interdepartmental Commission for Rural Depopulation", because we understand that it is working from the hand of the whole territory. Thus, "Country has as its objective to strengthen this alliance between the Government and the different territories of our country, working bilaterally and with cross-cutting policies to promote economic growth and thus act, also, before depopulation or population aging, to improve the standard of living and to guarantee the equal opportunities of all citizens, visquino where visquino. It is a matter of putting in place different actions that address the phenomenon of an integral optics. We are clear that there is no single solution for these democratic phenomena that you serve across all territories. Interventions must be specific and individualized for each region or territory, and must be made from an alliance between the government and the social agents, economic agents and political agents of the territory. We are looking for a shared strategy to activate all territories on the basis of their resources, their capabilities, their abilities and their potential. And that's why we have a double coordination; first, an internal coordination between the different departments of the Government of Catalonia, and also a coordination and a concertation of all those policies with the main agents of each territory, because coordination has to be effective to achieve the maximum efficiency and efficiency in the outcome. In short, it is what we want to be able to overcome all the challenges that we have set ourselves as a country. And that's why the strategy has to have, too, continuity, traceability, and it has to be able to constantly review according to the results obtained. Actually, it's true that this is the theory and it's the layout we're making from the government. And we need to see how we approach it and how we move from this theory to practice. In fact, therefore, the answer to this is: we do this from a territorial work commission, which we consider the instrument that empowers the territory to improve the policies of local governments and socio-economic representatives, together with a very operational logic, to reach both public actions and to coordinate actions between public and private sectors. Thus, the conditions of territorial work are a truly efficient and quality channel that reinforces the role of the regional councils as a trunk between the government and the assemblies, and also reinforces the role of the delegates of the government of the government of the territory. So far there have been four of them. We started for the Pyrenees, in concrete terms, at the Pallars Sobirá, on the 31st of October, and at the end of November it was also constituted the commission of the Ribera de l'Ebre, we would continue the month of disembarkation with the High Urgell and all just at the end of this month of generation it was constituted that of the High Land. In fact, you were asking me for results, and I have to tell him that it's still a long time for him to be able to carry out his assessment, because we've just started working, and we're working with a long-term look. But what I can tell you is that "Country is living is a project that has gone from being a novelty to being a demand for the same territory. And it's true that where we can start working is very positive, especially for municipal and supra-municipal institutions. This Government is clear that local authorities are absolutely necessary allies for the long term policies of the country that drives this Government. And in this sense, I left it to some of the policies driven by different departments. And I'm starting – and you've also spoken about it – by the challenge of mobility; in concrete terms, by public transport, with the introduction in this case of various measures such as the implementation of the Express network. o Optimization and reinforcement of the different connections to different regional hospitals or universities. And I left a point with the universities too, because ours is a territorial university model. But, besides, from the government, it is also to be said, they grant aid so that those university students, in this case of the regions of the High Pyrenees, the Aran Valley and the Solsones, can access or have facilities to access the university. And if we follow the infrastructure, because there is no doubt that connectivity is also a challenge in certain areas of our country, then it is important to highlight these jobs that are due to end in areas such as La Vansa and Fórnols, Alàs and Cerc, the C-28 in the Aran or the Tresponts tunnel between Organyà and Montan de Tost. And from connectivity by road or train we also move to the other connectivity, the digital one, and that, as Councillor Puigneró says, has a very decisive function in the field of precisely reversing depopulation. Because just as the reels and trains help you get out of your municipality to work in another municipality, digital infrastructures are the first to allow you to stay in your municipality to develop that economic activity. Because they are one of the three great reptiles of humanity, the digital revolution and the impact that they tend to have and that in good measure they already have digital technologies; they are an authentic opportunity for territorial dynamism and equal opportunities within our country. We also know the counselor's phrase that an asphalt kilometre connects you to the city side but that a fiber kilometre connects you to the world. And that's certainly it. And I would add that every kilometre of fiber also connects the most social policies to the pillar of the welfare state. And if we're talking about the local economy, this access to connectivity is basic for agricultural activity, for ramedera activity, for tourism or as for the challenge of diversification of economic activities, because we see how the territory begins to participate in all that Barcelona is already enormously strong worldwide: technology and entrepreneurship. The latter European policy also related to local Feder foundations also went on this line of building a more intensive territory in innovation and technology. And as the Councillor of the Presidency, I am not in a position to speak to her either of the PUOSC, this line of financing specific to the municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants, a line of subsidies of 90 million euros for the duration of territorial action to small municipalities, to promote territorial rebalancing and population loss or to develop those activities that form part of a strategy of territorial development. I'm done. We are determined, as the government, to intensify all those forts and to act in relation to the weaknesses existing with actions that in a cross-cutting and multi-disciplinary way also reverse us in what you say, the better of the living conditions of all people who live and work in the rural area, that empower the women of the rural world, that it is also a challenge that like society we have, and that it promotes the idea that the rural world has a strategic value for the sustainable development of our country's region. In this we are compromised, in this we are determined. And I'm sure that these assumptions, this tool that we have provided for this 2020 and in which we have been working together, will enable us to move forward on all those challenges and all those public policies that must respond to the needs of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.218.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return of the deputy. Come on in, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.219.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, I'll start by putting into value the things that we think are beginning to move forward, and also through the assumption agreement. The deployment of optical fiber is clearly a necessity that we will begin to have and that, therefore, we hope that with these assumptions we can begin to change the reality of many people who live in the rural world, giving them access to this optical fiber. Also the recovery of PUOSC is another element that for us is basic because the municipalities of Catalonia can develop their investments, a PUOSC, also, that we have had many years without having, the fruit of a detail that it is time to start reversing. Some of the details that, by the way, also benefited from saying, also significantly affected the world of sanitation; many small municipalities were left for example without CAP, and after being left without CAP they were left without pharmacy. And now it's time to start reversing this situation, because if you don't have a CAP, if you don't have a pharmacy, you can hardly live in certain municipalities. Well, you were telling me about the "Country saw as a strategy. We share the method of working with the municipalities, of working with the territories, of diagnosing jointly, in a participatory way, with these territories. But, of course, you need to go further than the diagnosis, after you diagnose you need to plan, and after you plan you need to run. And you tell me they don't have any results, that it's still about time, but it's that, of course, the urgency was for yesterday, isn't it? That is to say, what the territories of the rural world needed to be able to develop in the best way we should have done in a long time. And, therefore, we should start sprawling a little with this question. I, of course, can create a lot of commissions, right? Actually, they say so, don't they? , from: "If you want to solve a problem, put in a responsible and resourceful person; if not, create a commission. And what we seem to be doing is creating commissions, which we already understand is a good way to diagnose together with the territory, but, of course, if we don't have resources for this, then we can hardly deal with the problem. And, of course, I'm also saying it because it started when we understand that in this rural world... that it's obvious that the rural world is not just the agricultural world, but that one of the activities that is developing in this rural world is the primary activity: agriculture, rowing, fishing, isn't it? And, of course, if we don't support this type of activity – which is not the only one to develop in these territories, we already understand, but we do need help and support – then we can hardly have this territory alive and active and complete this landscape function, this function of fire prevention management, biodiversity management, etc. And, of course, because that's what we need from the Agriculture Department, Ramaderia and Fisheries, because with a 1.3_percent of the total assumption we understand that what we're saying is that the model of country we want for Catalonia is a country in which the primary sector doesn't matter to us very much. And we would have wanted to reverse this situation with these assumptions. It is true that the premise is a negotiation, we have managed, we understand, many things; we have not managed everything. One of the things we would like to have achieved and we have not achieved is this: more resources for the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia and Fisheries, because, among other questions, for example, the people of Penedès can have more support for the hour of iron crisis as the crisis of the price of the root that we had this summer, or the people of the Lands of Lleida can face the crisis of the sweet fruit that we have now on the table, and that, if we do not seek resources, so we can hardly bring solutions to it. And, therefore, basically what we want to move is this, that resources fall. And, look, we have another approach, more than our opinion on the project, "Living country, country of opportunity; we believe that we need to legislate, and that we need to turn territorial equity into a right, and that we must therefore turn right into a right that you can't have unequal access to certain services at the time, and so that the waiting time in sanitation can't be so different from the territory or that access to education can't be differentiated in this way. And we believe that this can be achieved by legislation to force the different departments of the government that, when you offer services, have this perspective of territorial justice at the time of providing your services, keep it healthy, keep it up, keep it up, keep it up, keep it up, keep it up, keep it up, keep it up, keep it up, keep it up, keep it up, whatever it is. So for a band we understand that we have to turn territorial equity into a right. And, for another band, as I was saying, we think they're calling for resources. And that's why we propose, through a territorial equity law, to create a fund, to create a fund of resources because those most vulnerable rural areas can choose, as was, for example, the fund that also fell into the retail, which was the barrel law, right? Therefore, a similar foundation was conceived for vulnerable rural areas. And that, therefore, those rural areas with more vulnerability may have the option to opt for more resources. We already know that there are some help now through the Leader programme and other European programmes, and that we can maintain it, but that we understand that they are not enough, because in view of the results the situation [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] It's not going back. Therefore, we hope to continue working with you in this line, also in the legislative framework, to convert...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.220.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.221.0	... territorial equity – I finish, President – actually in a right effect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.222.0	Thank you. To make his reply, he has a turn now to the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.223.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, therefore, allow me to make a proposal to you too. In fact, we all value and talk about the 2030 Urban Agenda, an agenda on which the Government is fully committed, and I think, therefore, that many groups, also parliamentarians, in this case present in this chamber. But to take into account all the reality of the country, I propose it perhaps is to create a rural agenda, a rural agenda that allows us to work and that is a cross-cutting and coordinating instrument with other actors and departments of the Generality, such as Agriculture and Territories, so departments directly involved also in which way we have to bet for the transformation of what you were talking about, of this country, right? ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But I also allow you to do incis in some data that I think are important to know. Well, in fact, you have re-emphasized it – I too do – that we are before a global repte, a global repte, therefore, that leads us to a depopulation. At these times, 54.5_percent of the world's population has already lived in cities, and this is a phenomenon up to 75_per_cent in Europe and 82_per_cent in the United States; a difficult phenomenon that can be reversed. In the face of this reality, I also want to put in value the data we have at home and that we need to know about it. I am talking about data that sees a deceleration of rural depopulation in Catalonia – and this is important for us to know – and this is, yes, a key and positive factor, because deceleration is the first step towards achieving the challenge that we need to reverse depopulation as a country. And we also have more positive data, the first is that this deceleration of rural depopulation has continued in terms of population variation as in the number of municipalities with a demographic loss. Moreover, it should be noted that it is also a trend begun a few years ago between localities of less than five hundred inhabitants. Other data, in terms of the best economic indicators, is that the number of social security affiliates is increasing and that the situation is returning. In particular, in rural areas there are two points per urban area, and this is also an important factor. And for what it does to the number of agri-food industries, there has been no more division in the rural area while the urban area loses forty-seven, and the data from the economic agriculture show us also an ascent of deu_mil_hectairs in the territory. Turistic data are also positive, after the increase of more than two thousand tourist places respect 2018. And in the valuation of public services, in these last years, they have fallen into two populations without school or children. Therefore, we are beginning to have positive data, which I believe is also important that we put them on the table and explain them. And while the Catalan population is still aging, that this is a reality, and that this aging is more important in rural areas, where it is up to 20 percent of the population, it is also certain that the percentage of people under thirty-five years of age in rural areas is beginning to show a significant increase. And why did I want to focus on these positive data? So, because there is a concept that you have used – and often use – with which I disagree, and which I think is important to explain, which is that of the "Buried Catalonia". And I think that these positive data, without denying the reptes that we have with the country, but positive data, tell us that we are before a country of opportunity, of a living country, that it is how we like to look at it; and, indeed, I think that this is the concept in which we are moving, and that I think that it is important and that it is not less. This concept of a country of 'Beautiful Catalonia', as I have already heard it named, is, on other occasions, a concept, in addition, that these days we have also been able to listen to in his coalition pact of government with the Party of Socialists in the Spanish State, and, therefore, the demands that from the Government of the Spanish State also help us to work towards continuing to revert, with those resources that are necessary for our country, this reality. In fact, and you know it – I'm finished – these last few weeks we've been working colza to colza to get a presupposition agreement. Presumables that, despite everything, are expansive, and that we have had the opportunity to speak in order also to realize territorial investments, those that must allow us to grow and improve and transform our country. And this is where we have to find ourselves: continuing to deploy those policies to ensure territorial equity in a transversal form from transport, educational equipment, going through the digital deployment, to put some examples. In short, we have a country of opportunity, and if we are effective, we will manage the challenges raised, because we have a country alive, with the ability to generate opportunities throughout the territory. Make it folded. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.224.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the lack of just financing of culture]] [[300-00226/12]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the lack of a just financing of culture, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose it has the word the deputy Rafael Bruguera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.225.0	With venom, Mr. President. Honourable Councillor, Members and Members, I would like to begin this inquiry with a couple of preliminary considerations, which I believe are important to frame the overall content of my inquiry. First consideration, for us « Catalan culture is, obviously, what is done in Catalonia, is in the language that follows, if this is expressed, logically, through the language. Therefore, what our creators, cultural managers, entities and associations of all kinds do, diverse and plural; on the other hand, filmmakers, filmmakers and ameneus, writers and editors, artists – in a wide sense – and, obviously, consumers too. And second of all, culture is not for us only what we do for personal pleasure or during hours of landing, to realize ourselves, to grow like people, but culture is also a public service, a right of the person, a basic phone element, we would say, of the welfare state; surely the best instrument of integration, of social cohesion and of equal opportunity. And culture is also an industry, an economic engine, an element that generates wealth and talent, creation of qualified occupation and territorial vertebration. I suppose, counsel, you share this exhibition, as I'm not sure most of Parliament does. This, however, is not the problem; the problem is that public policies of culture suffer from a difficult and long-standing structural problem; and still emerges from the role they play..., which they have played during these years and which continue to play local administrations, especially members and municipalities, which have maintained a minimum level of investment in culture, much higher than the Generality, and many times assuming powers that do not surround them, but which correspond to the Generality. From 2010 onwards, the premise of the Department of Culture has only systematically, with considerable detail that has put at risk the cultural sector of our country, otherwise dynamic and entrepreneurial if it has sufficient resources, of added support. Culture, in fact, has lost over quantity, in absolute numbers it has suffered a 35_per_cent spread since 2010, and it has also lost over quality, i.e., in percentage on the conjunction of the assumption. If in 2010 the presupposition of Culture represented a 1_percent of the presupposition, at these times we were in 2019 at 0.65. And if we compare these figures in relation to other countries around us, Denmark, for example, allocates 3.4_percent to culture and 8_cents per capita; France, 2 and mig to 2 and 2_cents per capita; Portugal, 1.8_percent to 100_per capita; Andorra, for example, 1.3_percent to 100_per capita. I repeat, we are at 0.65_per_cent and thirty-five_euros per inhabitant. And if we take the VAB, that is, the gross value added, the wealth indicator generated, currently, the culture represents 2_percent of the VAB and 4,000_millions of euros; when 2010 represented 3_percent and 5,000_millions of euros. In other words, culture is one of the most difficult sectors to pay for the effects of the crisis. This policy has hard conditioned and has harmed some of the most important and dynamic sectors of our country: creators, entrepreneurs, producers, cultural managers in general, associations, cultural equipment; it has harmed cultural consumption, etc. And to finish rounding up the picture, the last quarter of every year up the famous decree of the economic vice president, which still retails an additional 6_per_cent and which particularly harms the great national equipment. However, the Catalan cultural sector has organized itself and mobilised itself, which we celebrate, through the Actua Catalunya platform, to the representatives of which – it seems to me that they are here among the public – I greet cordially. And they have told us things, some things, like the following: in visual arts, only half a million euros have been invested between 2003 and 2019. We have ceased to be a reference in the audiovisual sector and TV3 does not play the role of the dynamism of the sector that would correspond to it. The loss of leadership is obvious, with what it represents from a talent march to other rights in search of work. In the performing arts, precariousness makes it impossible to plan in the middle of the term; lack of security. The publishing sector is in danger of losing the leadership of the castle publishing industry because of the growing competence of Madrid and some countries of America Llatina. The music sector is complaining of a lack of an impulse policy to its own creation. And we could say the same about the great cultural equipments or the ICEC, which makes hands and arms to tore up the end-of-year retails, derived from the economic decree. To reverse this situation, she advises, hold up courageous public policies, starting with the presuppositional reversal that is what we are putting them in this inquiry today. He will, frankly, we believe that there is not enough to say: "I am pleased that the sector is coming together and I share the demand for more money. All right, that's what I said; and all right, that I didn't kill you either. But you're her counselor, she's the Culture Counsellor. If he shares this diagnosis – that he would like to think he shares, if not in his totality, in good measure, that he also takes advantage of to ask him, otherwise –, what we really care about is that, if it can be, explain to us, so, what he does. Or, even better: what do you think you're doing? Are you satisfied with the assumption you've given us? This house, the Parliament, to help you, I sincerely believe that you have done the dues that surround you. Beyond the various motions for resolutions that have been put forward in various committees of Culture, there are a couple of agreements that have been reached for this plenary in the framework of the debates of general political orientation which I believe are particularly important. On October 9, 18, at the proposal of our parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Plenary of the Parliament approved a resolution that I read textually: "The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government to ensure that in the assumptions for 2019 the global departure of the Department of Culture is not less than 1.5_percent of the total of the assumption, with a commitment to reach two_per_cent at the end of the legislature. Will counsel, complement, complement, this parliamentary agreement? Finally, I also liked to ask Vice President Aragonès, but I see that he is not there. In any case, will the 2020 Culture premise reach '1.5_per_cent with a commitment to reach 2_per_cent in a pair or three years, to lie down at European standards? You often say that Parliament is going to rise. Especially, we hear you say it to the very honorable President of the Generality. "I'll tell Parliament and I'll do whatever Parliament says to me," the president says. So, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Councillor of Culture, the premise of the Department of Culture will reach '1 5_per_cent, as the Catalan Parliament has solemnly approved in the general policy debate? Today they have the opportunity to demonstrate that beyond rhetoric, they have finally understood the arguments and the just claims and claims of the Catalan cultural industries and the repeated parliamentary mandates, often not only raised for our parliamentary group. In cultural policy we have many debates pending and the need to make decisions with as much agreement as possible. The role of TV3, the leadership of the great cultural equipment and its legal framework, the need to stimulate artistic teachings, the role of the Conca, the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, the improvement of the system of arxius, the status of the artist and the creator, etc. But we can hardly begin these debates with serenity enough if we do not solve the problem of foundations, the structural problem: the presuppositionary policy of the conjunction of culture. We have a climate emergency, sure; we have a social emergency, too; we have many challenges in this country, but we also have a cultural emergency. The cultural sector is depressed, overly prime and skeletal. There is no room to lose more weight and is at risk of collapsing. It urgently needs remodeling, because the diagnostic is clear, it's obvious. And this remei, we sincerely believe, counselor, that passes to equip in a sufficient way the presuppositions of Culture, because the Catalan cultural sector plays the role that it plays in a country that we hope has a great future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.226.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the answer has the word the Counsellor of Culture, the lady Maria Àngela Vilallonga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.227.0	Good afternoon, President. Bona tarda, MPs and MPs, Actua Cultura and the people of the Department of Culture. Mr Bruguera, all just divindres passed, the 31st generation, presented before the Commission of Culture of this Parliament the assumptions of the Department of Culture of the Government of the Generality for this year 2020. I consider it an honour and also a responsibility; since the year 2017, the councillor could not have done so. Now, finally, we can discuss in this Parliament the result of months of work and negotiation to bring forward long and necessary assumptions of the Generality. That's why we congratulated each other and congratulate each other. I thank you, Mr. Bruguera, that your group has kept this inquiry, that it had been scheduled on the 22nd of generation, before the submission of the premise, and that we end up doing post-pressupost today. We spent three hours debating all the groups in Parliament, less the CUP that couldn't have been there, and we could have continued much longer. We have 30 minutes today, just you and me. The past six days, however, give us a different perspective, a little more sedimented. And I'll also tell him we're not coming in today with the same fixed photo of dives. It's still moving fast. And we want to continue in motion always to move forward, but without sighing. They will remember that I offered to talk to all members of the Commission's groups and to all cultural actors about this premise and about our interest in getting just funding for culture. So I did it with whoever showed interest in it. And I offer to keep doing it. Before yesterday we celebrated a work table with representatives of the Acta Cultura project. I had a conversation with the Aragonese vice president yesterday. I'll keep going. It's true that, as I expressed diverging, these assumptions are better than the ones we've had in the past few years, but they're still not the best. In any case, it's a very valuable assumption – we've put a lot of effort into it, we've spent a lot of time – and above all it allows us to start doing some things that can be very positive in a relatively short term. Let me highlight, first of all, some of the values of this presuppost. Pugem €38.5_million is in line with the last approved assumption, that of the year 2017. If we count the reduction of 16_million euros for that judgment of the Constitutional Court that eliminated the audio-visual tax, which we held in 2017, respects the initially approved assumption, this real bid is more than 54_million euros, almost 22 percent increase. It is clear that I would like to talk about a 22 percent increase over 800_million euros. Sure. There are certain more important aspects, but, I think, than the final quantity. For example, the modification of the Heritage Law allows us to move from '1 percent to '1.5 percent cultural. This is a better one – I have written it down here – forever. It's not forever, we know – I'm adding it now. But it's a structural improvement. And, as far as the Generalitat recovered the investor's pulse, more resources for culture came in. In addition, for the first time, the assumption recoils a clear and concrete contribution that comes from the tourist tax. Before yesterday I had at my work table the South Korean consol, which told us that every year 600,000 Korean visitors come, with eight direct flights every week to Barcelona, because they consider it, our capital, the place to be, and pointed out that in this tria to decide where to come from Europe, Gaudí – Gaudí, with emphasis, not with final error, that it was also the main factor that decanted his fellow citizens in Catalonia. And that's cultural tourism. We need more tourist money for our cultural tourism. These assumptions will allow us to recover sectors such as the audiovisual, a little, or the book; promote festivals, which bring us so many people and so much life throughout the territory; reinvest in heritage rehabilitation; promote language and promote it as a tool of integration; help the associated world, spread throughout the territory, make popular culture and culture of all kinds by means of ateneus, centers of studies, couples, glues... We must allow us to give a new impulse to libraries, which have been able to become basic and essential equipment for every town and every bar. In short, they will allow us – and this is an objective of this council – to bring culture to more people and places. Beyond the democratisation of culture. Before all this the winnings are obvious, we can't need them in any way. But we don't have enough. The culture of this country needs and deserves more, because culture is at the center of our lives. It is for this reason that we want to continue working to improve the financing of culture, to lay the groundwork for culture to be considered a reversal and not a expense. A short and long-term reversal. This is why we have a momentum, a new impetus to help strengthen the cultural sector and equip it with tools that allow us to recover firmly. During these months that come and that we have before us we must not fail to work, the whole team of the Department of Culture and with the support of the people of culture. One of the lines, which is what I am now interested in, is this for the three minutes and thirty-one seconds that I have. In these own ways we want to set the basis for a paradigm shift. You also ask us, Acta Cultura also asked us – Acta Cultura, no Acta Catalunya, Mr. Rafel Bruguera. We want a political and social recognition based on contrasting and transparent data of what we could call it – and what you have called it – cultural exceptionality, cultural emergence, likening it to climate emergence. I like to talk about cultural emergence, too. It's not that I like it; I wouldn't want cultural emergence, but it's necessary. This recognition of the intrinsic value that culture has for our society is what must open the way for us to give it a foot in public assumptions consistent with the role that society has, with the indicators that we need to show society in the most transparent and clear way that culture brings to our well-being, creating wealth, you said, creating satisfaction, generating knowledge and above all enriching us as people and as a country. In addition to being social cement, which is what I said to be past, which no longer served me cohesion, but it was passing directly to cement, it is a source of pride for our citizens, it is an essential sector for the economy of the country and a vector, a powerful vector of attraction for our territories. In this sense, I want to announce an agreement to create immediately – "immediately I want to say, if we can, the week you see, but no, it will be the other – a_work table between the Department of the Vice-President and Economy and History, the Department of Culture and the representatives of the sector to trace the way that allows us a qualitative leap, this veritable paradigm shift, with a long-term vision, that allows us to take advantage of conjunctural emergencies, to make a plan these years that you just mentioned right now. Before the summer, there must be agreements and proposals on the march, which can be assumed, for everyone. We'll also take advantage of these months to dig deeper into a line that we've already been working on and from which we can give them news as well. This line focuses on a better management of the resources we devote to culture to draw the maximum share of each euro of public money that we would devote to culture and go looking for extra money outside of the public assumptions of the Generality. Anyway, I'll explain it later because I'm forty-seconds old and I won't have time to explain everything I want to explain to him. I want to thank him for these previous considerations he has made. I certainly agree. Catalan culture is what Catalonia is all about, which is its language. And culture isn't just personal joy, but that's what I just told her, too. Well, I'll leave it here for now. And I expect your reply. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.228.0	Thank you, Counselor. Actually, to make the reply, it is the return, again, of the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.229.0	Thank you again, President. I thank him, he will counsel, sincerely, the whole, of course, and the predisposition to the dialog. You know she's at each other's. [[Pause.]] The Councilman... I told the Committee on Culture, too, and I repeat it now, more or less, the Vice-President when he presented the assumptions to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs said that these were country assumptions, that the human dimension was a priority, that they were social cohesion assumptions, equity and equal opportunities, assumptions that left austerity behind and that recovered and exceeded the 2010 expenditure. Well, let's test the elbow; let's translate it into culture. Are these cultural assumptions the assumptions that the country needs? No, no, I'm convinced the counselor thinks the same thing. Is the human dimension a priority, that is, associations, people, cultural actors? No, no, Do these assumptions generate more cohesion, more equity, more equal opportunities? Neither do you. Let the austerity stand? Still less. Do they recover and exceed the expenditure of 2010? No, absolutely. In 2010, the assumptions represented the 1_per_cent..., the assumptions of culture represented the 1_per_cent of the conjunction of the assumptions. In 2017, they represented 0.65. In 2019, the ninths, but they were stuck, and, therefore, we were able to study, they were down two tenths. at 0.63. And what you're proposing to us now is 0.61. It increases a 14_per_cent, it is certain, but from a assumption that goes from 38,000_millions the year 2017 to 46,000_millions – the conjunction of the assumption, eh? , the conjunction, the total; 2020 pushes a 21_per_cent while the assumption of culture pushes a 14_per_cent. At the rule of three I still arrive despite being from letters. So we lose weight. Culture continues to lose weight. It has half the assumption that the agriculture councillor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, which was the object of the previous inquiry. If we go to the great cultural equipments, she'll advise, miri. 2017, Teatre Nacional, MNAC, Biblioteca de Catalunya, Consorci del Liceu, MACBA, etcetera, Mercat de les Flors, Lliure..., in total, the contribution of the Generalitat was 48,1_million euros – I need it because, if I don't need it, the thing is so elusive that it wouldn't be understood: 48,1, I repeat, 2017 –; 2019, nonat, eh? , 51.3 but executed, at least until November, executed, 51.3; 2020, 51.9. From 51.3 to 51.9; EUR 600,000 plus. Nor the CPI. Is that how our great national equipment is? Today, El País, it seems to me that it is, publishes a very interesting work, I think, on the situation of museums in Catalonia. More or less, the members of the Committee on Culture know them because we were going to be in the MNAC for days and we were going to have a chance, therefore, to make a fairly interesting and positive debate in this sense. Therefore, there is not enough; there is not enough with that the presuppositions of Culture, after all the years that we carry of continuous detail, have..., is intended this. And look, we have a very clear occasion. I'll take the word. Precisely, the motion that we present will go on the line of what you said, counsel, to work in common. We're on time; the assumptions are not approved. If we are not able to find 120_million euros in a budget of 46,000_million euros is that behind the words there was no political will. Therefore, let us sit down; let us sit down with the sector, let us sit down with Actua Cultura, with the parliamentary groups, and among all of us find the formula why, when we can finally approve these assumptions, we incorporate it as at least 120_million additional euros, which would mean that, without getting there, we would lie down to '1_per_cent, which is a small part, but a part of the demand of the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now to make his answer is the councilwoman's turn. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.231.0	Mr Bruguera, I see that you have listened very well to everything I have said, because you are completely in agreement with me, and I see that you also want to see this table that we have granted to do with the Department of Economy, the Department of Culture and the cultural sector that, in fact, the sector is also ours. We also have film festivals, music festivals, theatre festivals, festivals of all kinds..., and we know that we want to have more gifted, better-helped festivals. I'll take the word for it. Now I could make it all that battery that I made the divender pass – that carnival menu, that someone told me – and that I don't know, anyway, I'll start to tell you two or three, of items, because people who weren't aware of what was going on, but that's the question of the tax deficit. Of course, the fiscal deficit is also social deficit. We want more money for culture, but we also think that they are not giving the money needed in this country. And the list was long, but I will only say two or three items, as I said: if 46_million euros per day were not returned; in six days of deficit we would multiply the culture assumption by two, by eleven, by three, and we would already be at the level that the sector claims and that they would put us in front of the European countries; in two days we would have solved the expansion of the MNAC to convert it into a first European level equipment for the 21st century. And, I won't go on, because you know that this board also has an extraordinary MNAC project. The MNAC rightly rep very few moneys of the Kingdom of Spain. In the general assumptions of the State for 2020, which are the extended ones of 2019, we do not know how many years the extended assumptions to the Kingdom of Spain are. In the presuppositions of 2020 they plan to contribute 2_millions to the MNAC i 15, to the Prado Museum ; 1_million to the Macba and to the Reina Sofia it has previewed 26_millions of euros. In summary, 3_millions for the two main museums of Barcelona versus 41 for the two most important of Madrid. This is not exactly territorial balance. Well, as we know of this situation, and we also know that in the later MNAC Consortium-Patronate, in which this councillor was present, the strategic MNAC Pla was approved, without any presupposition, because the representatives of the Kingdom of Spain did not want to approve it with presupposition; we would not have approved it, and on the other hand, it was approved without a presupposition. So, as we are aware of all this and know the difficulties of the MNAC – as you said, in this article today, these difficulties were explained – we, from the Government of the Generality, from the Department of Culture, will make an extraordinary injection to the MNAC to make that enlargement that has been waiting for so long. And we hope that it will be during the year 2021 – not 2020, but if 2021 – that it is possible to inaugurate that exhibition of Gaudí, and all South Koreans will come to see it, sure. With a 1_million_i_mig of euros that we will pose to expand the Pavilion Victory Eugenia. Anyway, I just told you, Mr. Bruguera, that your style and my style are dialogueal and consensual styles. Thanks to this we have been able to do, we have been able to recover the Conca, we have been able to descale the IECC, we will now expand the MNAC, we have also been able to descale the magnification of the Macba – we will expand the MNAC and we have been able to descale the Macba – and I hope that all together, with Culture Act and all the groups in Parliament that are likely to aim at it, we will be able to achieve – and fight for this – more money in culture. Thank you very much, and I offer you to come home and talk about it quietly, because in thirty minutes we don't have time to say any more. I can't tell him what to do with the amounts he gave me, but I invite him to come to the department. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-06-4803.232.0	Thank you, Counselor. There are no more points to the order of the day scheduled for today. Therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock in the morning. Thank you very much.
