ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Ask the Government about the balance of the compliment of sustainable development goals]] [[310-00385/12]] And we're doing it with the oral questions. The first question is about the balance of the compliment of sustainable development goals. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Civit. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.2.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I have to correct it, because I will not ask the question, but that it will be formulated by the Romeva Councillor, unjustly from the prison. And I also take advantage of it to give support to the Solé Councillor, who will tend to be judged because of how the mayor put the ballot box. And also, naturally, a record at Tamara Carrasco, finally absolved. Therefore, Tamara Carrasco, u; Guardia Civil, zero. [[Some applause.]] An irrefutable Republican agenda for 2030. In September, the United Nations commemorated the seventy-five years of its creation. Even though the exact anniversary won't be until October 24th. This day, however, in 1945, the five members of the Security Council – the United States of America, France, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and China – and forty-six other states ratified the Charter of the United Nations, signed in San Francisco on June 26 of the same year. A few months after the end of World War II and the new intergovernmental organization was born to maintain peace and security at the international level; promote friendly relations between nations based on respect for the principles of equal rights and free determination of peoples; promote international cooperation in the economic, social, cultural and human spheres, and in the spirit of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The past decades, the United Nations have had a bad iron salute, much linked to the vagaries of multilateralism, and the celebration of its seventy-five anniversary confronts it with a global pandemic that has already produced close to 1_a thousand mortal victims of the world and that has led to a setback in many of the adventures achieved in the later years for reducing the extreme poor, the better access to salvation or the reduction of child labour, among others. This anniversary coincides with approval on September 25th five years ago of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. This agenda is a wake-up call, just one of those we're getting back to day by day, and also a cry to work urgently and ceaselessly to complete the SDGs with all the planetary emergence we have. All my life I have been an advocate of principles and values that we now find gathered in the 2030 Agenda; values that are nothing but Republicans. When there are only two years to complete the SDGs, the United Nations recognizes, with statistical data, that, before the pandemic, the changes necessary to complete the SDGs were neither produced at the speed nor at the scale needed, and that they were far from being satisfied by 2030. Covid made it harder. This finding cannot justify in any case a waiver, years against it, is an unquestionable invitation to reinforce the action of the awareness of, as the 2030 Agenda itself says, being able to [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] the first generation I managed to pose the poor and the last that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.3.0	Congressman, time's up. [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] Thank you. To answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Solé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.4.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, Congressman. In the first place, therefore, thank you for the support shows, that I am convinced that time will give us reason in this general cause against independence. In any case, I am also pleased that you have made reference to my predecessor, Councillor Romeva; one of the great drivers, precisely, of this 2030 Agenda, of this bet that in its moment United Nations has implemented these objectives of sustainable development. Just two days ago we celebrated here the act of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the United Nations and just a few days ago these five years of the approval of these so-called sustainable development goals. It is obvious that the Government of the Generalitat, first of all the Councillor Romeva, but also through all the departments, shows a clear bet, a firm one, in the acquiescence of these objectives. In the first place, therefore, a national plan was approved in the field of government. Subsequently, and bearing in mind that the acquittal of objectives not only to the Public Administration, but also to all public and private agents, was the Alliance for the 2030 Agenda. And, in fact, two obvious evidence that the government has this firm commitment is that in the assumptions approved last spring, therefore, a 74_percent of the parties are aligned, vertebrad, in these SDGs. And the Economic Reactivation and Social Protection Plan approved in July for the Government of the Generality to deal with this Covid and post-pandemic, so it is also aligned in these SDGs. On September 23 – just two weeks ago – the Government of the Generality, the Department of External Action, together with the Idecat and the Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development, we presented this set of indicators – concretely, sixty-one indicators – to which twenty-three added later, which they do precisely is to evaluate at what point in time we are referring to the SDG and above all to take the temperature as we move forward in this 2030 Agenda. But not only that; it doesn't just have to be used to evaluate us, to evaluate ourselves, but also to re-evaluate the citizenry, to explain to the citizenry what point we are. It is clear that the act in which they presented simply what it does to manifest these data from a format driven by the European Statistics Agency, and also by the Idecat. And at these moments the Sustainable Development Advisor Council is assessing, is deeply analyzing these indicators, which pose us manifest, for example, that today we are still in a 25_percent of possible poverty or social exclusion. Or for another band...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.5.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the right to housing]] [[310-00386/12]] The next question is about the situation of the right to housing. I the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.6.0	Good morning, Counselor. Three years ago, during the Unipost registry, we were together in Terrassa, holding a judicial committee, precisely to defend the right to self-determination. This 1st of October, many of us were at the Rambla, at the same place three years ago, defending the right to habitat, defending the Maite, one of the last veins of the Rambla. The housing unions in the Catalan countries are still organised. And the charges against the veins are not charges of the Civil Guard, nor the National Police, under the orders of Fernández Díaz; but they are charges of the anti-evasive units of the Mossos d'Esquadra. In this sense, today's councillor, we are still defending ourselves from injustices. And we're sure that the people who trusted them in the last elections, that all those people who want to build a better country, too, are harming the eyes of these images. Fourteen days, Barcelona, 372 scheduled appointments. Every hour, justice in Spain takes away a family of its own, with the complicity of the Department of Interior. The situation, counselor, you know, it's very hard. October 1st, to execute the denunciation of the Maite, the Mossos jumped from a terrace, to enter his home. It's going to feel cornered. Emergence services had to come for a suicide alert. In the end, the Mosses, including, after this denunciation, told him that they would stop acting in an imminent manner in denunciations, because they were harming the eyes of these images. You're opening up as a counselor; will you stop sending the anti-slave units to call families?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the hinter, Mr. Miquel Sàmper.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.8.0	In the first place, to denounce the absence today, here in this plenary room, of our honourable President Quim Torra, unjustly condemned, therefore, for arbitrary jutjats and which have deprived him of the exercise of his freedom of expression. Entering into what the deputy servant said, we, from the Interior, although it is not our competence, as you know, we are trying to create a work table, a work table with all the actors, absolutely all the actors involved in the issue of denunciations. Therefore, our intention is to solve and, of course, to solve these problems that you have been telling us now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.10.0	Counselor, if we want to build a better country, let the anti-fouling units... don't vacate the Mossos to call families. Avans-d'ahir, Barcelona : I counted, like at least, twenty anti-evas, three" police vans, to call a family that could not pay the loguer. Mediating your department with the housing movement? Zero. Penalties to the big owner? Zero. Result: a family on the street and a speculator more, a great tenor, in a barri, a barri that should be for the veins, for whom it lived.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Time's up. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.12.0	Deputy Sirvent, in the first place, remember that the Mossos d'Esquadra is the judicial police. Secondly, there has been a pandemic that has caused the suspension of all civil proceedings since March 14 of this year. So, what's going on now? That all those that aren't done in their moment are being done now. And it seems to us that there's more to it than there normally was. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I read you said you were a police officer. And, therefore, I made it clear: when the Squadron Mosses, when the safety bodies intervene, they do so because there is a judgment that he said, after one, two, three, four suspensions, or whatever follows, that we must intervene. Therefore, first message: the Squad Mousses obey judicial orders. And it's not a subject that I'm saying in this room, it's a subject that I'd like to say because society makes it clear: we obey, they obey court orders. Second: there is a royal decree, the 11/2020, that previews the moratorium until the 31st generation. Why didn't it happen, this mortuary? Why are these charges being given if we have the possibility that there is no one in Catalonia, all of Spain, until the 31st generation? Two. The circles of local administrations that must provide for the existence of a "living place" for vulnerable people who cannot be without a living place – and in this we are totally in agreement – function and function well in most local administrations. We have an ampoule ass, in Barcelona, because of its demographics, which obviously has to be solved. But the problem is we've got the location. I insist, Sire: I invite you, I invite you – we have spoken to you and I – to be in this table, at this table, and we will find the solution because these images do not happen again. It's our will, from the government. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the continuity of public policies of the Councillor d'Interior]] [[310-00395/12]] The next question is about the continuity of public policies of the Councillor d'Interior. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Counselor, it's all just a_me that it's in charge and in this short period of time we've seen the Mossos intervening in denunciations of vulnerable families, police charges against people who peacefully tried to put up with some of these denunciations and public officials without the visible police identification number. In short, just like you're now, counselor, no change. Counselor, do you mean what you think you are giving continuity to the public policies of your predecessor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the words of the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Sàmper.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.16.0	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that you are describing some actions that do not agree with interventions that have been made in the public media, including some communication media, that different things have been seen. Here in Parliament, on the 11th of September..., forgive me, when it was made public the unjust sentence against President Torra, you were able to observe how a demonstration came all the way out here, exactly all the way out here, breaking access to Parliament. Isn't that right for the demonstration? Do we still want more? Do we want to allow him to be sloppy, too, access to this room? That is to say, it was possible to develop as said by the European Court of Human Rights. They're gonna break a door, they're gonna come in between. And you didn't forget: the squadron moss didn't make a sad intervention; they put the lights on and pretended to dissuade. That's what Squad Moves did on these two days that we've had some incidents.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.18.0	Counselor, I was talking to him about denunciations, police charges and unidentified agents. In any case, of his answer, what we have is that there will be no change of course in his advice, and we understand, therefore, that the deputy president and the Republican Left, so much so that they fill their mouths in this hemisphere of the need to democratize the police, at the time of truth they will continue to endorse the policy of Councilman Buch, that for which it also seems to be his. In any case, we put three areas into which we believe there should be a change of one hundred and forty degrees in public order. The first, the paper of the Mossos in denunciations, especially for those who make vulnerable families. Counselor, it's very simple: do not send anti-evalot agents, neither Brimo nor ARRO. We have heard you say, and we agree, that the problem of access to housing is complex and requires a comprehensive solution. We believe that in no case can this answer be a police officer. And what we have seen these past few weeks, in which the number of denunciations has increased, has been that organized citizenship and some assemblies are the ones that have acted to avoid these denunciations. Miri, of the seventy-seven charges scheduled for last week in the city of Barcelona, the joint anti-denomination team managed to stop seventy-one, i.e., 92_per_cent. Meanwhile, the Generalitat was sending the Squadron Mosses to execute these charges, when what it was supposed to do was exercise its most resourceful skills for social housing and complete the compromise to zero the waiting lists for the months of housing emergence. More public questions. The second thing we think is that a change is in transparency and accountability. Complete with the parliamentary mandate to make visible the identification number of the agents. It's very simple, and it can be done before the warrant's over. And the last question. To democratize our police to review the internal control mechanisms for the case where an abuse of force has taken place. The major audit of the history of the body that Councilman Buch announced was a skin prey. Think of it as a background check...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.19.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. To answer, the counselor again has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.20.0	Thank you, President. Miri, in the matter of denunciations you are right, but when there are denunciations where the police are wearing off from the morning to the gods, you appear here in Barcelona, for example, at eleven with a piss. I ask you, wasn't this piss one day before, two, three or four? In offering your obligation..., the "life in its moment and these images that you denounce and denounce the Lady Sirvent will not be donated. On the other hand, we'll make a co-existence of phonental rights. You know that – you know that. We will make a coexistence of two fundamental rights: the right to security of persons, inalienable, and the right to demonstration, to rally, to protest, to vague, without any limit, where the European Court of Human Rights puts it – I said it, to have an example when it was unjustly disenfranchised President Torra. With this coexistence we must find the path of centrality because all, absolutely all, the political representatives that we are here feel comfortable. Right to security and right to the demonstration, gathering, vague, protest... But, I insist, with a limit – I cannot ask that there be no limits –, and this limit the pose of the European Court of Human Rights, which for some reason is the one that causes the rights to end up interpreting with the passage of time according to the evolution of the same time. In this line he will find us, in this line we will surely try to find solutions that help us all, absolutely everyone, to be comfortable with what must be the security of a country and that should not be a topic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.21.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.22.0	...of political recitation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.23.0	...counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.24.0	...but it's security.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.25.0	The next question... [[Ask the Government about the improvement of the Mossos d'Esquadra mobile park]] [[310-00394/12]] ...is about the improvement of the mobile park of the Mosso d'Esquadra. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.26.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Parliament staff, I cannot begin this question without making a point of the repression that we continue to live in the first plenary without the very honorable President of the Generality, Quim Torra, disqualified from using the free exercise of freedom of expression, which should be protected instead of being persecuted. It is for this reason, counselor, that I give thanks for having accepted this charge with the obvious risks it carries. This interior consulting isn't easy. I know. He knows that he has many fronts and that on many occasions he is in the spotlight of public opinion and published. Despite everything, according to the latest CEO, his department, with Mosso, Civil Protection, Bombers and the rest of the emergency services..., they are the most valued for what he does to the government's performance during the Covid's management, with a set_on_deu. Citizen security is one of the areas, according to the CEO, most important in the daily life of the city, because they are the first to arrive at an accident, a thief or to dispense help in front of a problem. More than twelve thousand police officers in Catalonia work in the area of citizen security and have been doing so under very precarious conditions that made it difficult for agents to work and did not guarantee the quality and security that citizenship deserves. The better condition of the city security patrols is a trade union demand that goes all the way... and that I think the council has been on the case and is about to be able to achieve these best and was his will. And it's essential that we improve these citizen security patrols if we want to improve the image and response of our nearby police. For this reason, for all these reasons that I have explained to you, Mr. Counsellor, from Junts to Catalonia, we would like to know what is the government's commitment to citizen security, which is the basis of the country's security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word "Interior Counselor", Mr. Miquel Sàmper, has the word "Interior Counselor".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.28.0	Thank you, President. MP Madaula, it is not only the circumstance that at this time of the pandemic, from the perception of the population, we are highly valued, but also that in the CEO the Squadre Mosso Cos is curiously the most valued of all society, or the second, after the universities. I'm saying because we probably have the problem here between and, in change, outside the Squad Mosos are always well valued. Let's have it. The CEO doesn't think he's overreacting. That's what you were asking me. A total of 237 vehicles will start patrolling before the end of the year, in a first phase of renewal of the entire mobile fleet destined for citizen security. They represent 25_percent of the total number of vehicles in the civic security units, but the reversal of the department does not end with these 237: in the first half of the 21st they will be put into operation 382 more; by the end of 2021 60_percent of the citizens' security vehicles will be renewed. The investment will reach €33 million. It is important that you know that there will be a new corporate image of the body after keeping the current one from year 93; a visibility that will arrive, from the vehicle, at 250_metres – now it is only one hundred – with a better environmental and of the active and passive security of agents and also above all of the citizenry. As I have already commented in the presentation of the vehicles to his d'Egara, it is not only a better internal, but it pretends to be a better external; for example, of convenience for the detained, when they are born behind with cars that do not complete the least indispensable as regards respect for these people, also. We also see our logotyped vehicles, by road, on the road in the next month of November. The new design and colors are designed to provide high visibility around long-distance life. It is better, among other things, honourable Member, the priority external signaling of the vehicle with the incorporation, for the first time, of a message panel with a pre-recorded voice message in three languages and with a better distribution of the external illumination. We've made a more visible vehicle, I insist, 250_metres, and not a hundred feet away. The city will see, identify it more easily when the need is and will be better signified than it has been.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.29.0	Thank you, counselor; time is up... [[Ask the Government about the actions to be taken in the Lands of the Ebre]] [[310-00387/12]] The next question is about the actions to be made in the Lands of the Ebre. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.30.0	Thank you, President. Catalonia's third climate change report – the scientific community knows well, counselor – warns us that the impacts on the Ebre Delta will be important; the future of the Delta is deeply compromised. Now it's time to defend the Delta like ever before and prevent its return. What do you think the government of the generality should do in its competitions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.32.0	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by denouncing the non-presence of President Torra, unjustly disqualified to defend freedom of expression. The honourable Member of the European Parliament, who has been relatively recently, has managed to create the consensus table, which knows that it brings together seven municipalities and two communities of governors, so that the main socioeconomic and institutional agents of this territory are so sensitive and that it deserves all the protection of the institutions, obviously this protection, in all the scientific reports that we can provide. This consensus table has asked and asked for by writing to the two main competent administrations in everything that refers to the Jew – laugh and cost, therefore, Generality and State – that we are still able to establish a dynamic that allows us to make a single plan of protection and adaptation of the delta of the Jew. Since the Government of the Generalitat we have called for this creation of this joint commission to the Ministry of Ecological Transition. This petition hasn't been answered yet. We hope that the Government of the State will take the consensus required by the territory to be able to do this plan and begin to pull forward the protective and adaptation actions of the Delta that is deserved by the people of the same Delta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.34.0	As you know, in the next few days, or weeks, the Government of Spain, framed in its firm commitment to the protection and defence of the Ebre Delta, will present the strategy to protect the Delta from the effects of climate change; structural actions that would be in the line of the consensus table, which you spoke at these times, integrated by seven municipalities and other entities; strategy that will be linked, in the sense of doubt, to a presuppositionary compromise pending the approval of the assumptions of the year 2021. I don't think there's much difference; what the Delta needs at these times is the maximum unity. But while what? Because the storm strikes are relentless. The Government of Spain has already laid, has spent 2,200,000 euros to repair the stars of the temporary Gloria. You have 6_million euros thanks to a SCP item on the premise that was approved recently in Parliament. And what have they done? For now, nothing. The consensus table has asked them to act. What could they do? Continue reinforcing the Bar of the Trabucador, also the coastal sector between Riumar and the Fangar, the northern platter of the island of Buddha, all to avoid the crossing of natural defenses. Nor do we know what the 6_million Feder fund will be allocated to. That's to say, they've got 12 million to put up with. Liciti, counselor, his resources in favor of the Delta. And speaking of help, I spoke to the Councillor of the Presidency. What about the October 2018 help? The Government of Spain has transferred 6.9 million euros. You have made a new law that no one has just heard in the territory and will be forced to return practically 67 percent of these resources. Counselor, you will agree with me that all this is absurd, because, on top of that you have not put a hard to repair the stars of the 2018 waters, you will see urge you to return these resources to the State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the counselor again has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.36.0	Thank you. Mr. Member, it is no mistake that the Government of the State has not given us any money to invest in coastal regeneration; it has used the money that is generated in the country and has acted according to its competitions, because the river management skills and the coastal management skills are of the ministry. The government of the state has not asked us in case we help regenerate the bar of the worker. You could've asked us. But I want to remind you that in the last operation that was made of the river dredging, at the initiative of the mayor of Deltebre, Mr. Lluís Soler, the ministry forced the smile to come from that dredging the gypsum. Therefore, let us clarify ourselves – let us clarify ourselves. And do you know how to make this clear? With consent. I've met many times with the consensus table, and I've asked the consensus table and now I ask you to help us that the Ministry of Ecological Transition is laying the piles – these are really going to be laying the piles – it's laying the piles so that the plan doesn't follow a thing drawn by Madrid and that we can think, no..., the plan is agreed between the Government of the Generality, the ministry, the same consensus table, and then we can apply these 6_millions, the 6_millions of the Feder...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.37.0	Counselor, he's running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.38.0	...more of all that sediment mobilization is... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.39.0	Thank you. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about the latest actions of the Department of Territory and Sustainability]] [[310-00391/12]] The next question is about the later actions of the Department of Territory and Sustainability. And the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Marta Madrenas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.40.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillors, fellow Members, Parliament staff, first of all, I would like to express my condemnation of this shameful feeling that the President of the Generality has been unable to deal with, so as the Spanish State is calling for this crisis – difficult – democratic and as we are also immersed in two very important, very dramatic crises, which are acting hard towards the city of Catalonia. First of all, this crisis that lasts eight months, almost nine months, the world pandemic of the Covid, which is acting extremely hard on our people, on our lives and on our lives, on all economic activity, on the social preservation of their rights. But neither can we forget, even if we are in this dramatic crisis, that we are also immersed in a global crisis, also, a very serious climate emergence that also affects us, and that some may think that it is far more acute, also directly affecting us, the lives and the lives of citizens and citizens of Catalonia, and that from all possible areas, from the same citizenship, but also from the institutions, obviously, and from the entities and enterprises, therefore, collectively, in a collaborative way, we work to reverse their effects, not only to minimize them but to reverse them. In this sense, this Parliament has had these two crises – the three crises, in fact, to which I referred – well present. In fact, even though it was agreed, it was stated in this very Parliament that we found ourselves in this climate emergency situation, about a year ago, a little more than a year ago, not only in the Parliament but also in the government and in most of the assemblies of this country. In this sense, we know that since the Government of the Generality has been working in all these areas together, with a tool that we have found very appropriate, that is this Plan for economic recovery and social protection, which in fact calls Coreco. It is a plan that, in fact, was linked to the Green Agenda of Catalonia, and it is not to alienate, because, in fact, of all the measures that I include, which are quantified in 31,000_million euros, in other words, many are of sustainability. Therefore, how will Coreco act, how will it act, and the Green Agenda on Catalonia, on the municipalities, to reactivate the economy and to protect us from the environment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.41.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.42.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Actually, we're on a double-emergency, health care and climate. We have not spoken on many occasions, you and I, from a municipal perspective, from this national vision that we must have from the department. And I believe and honestly believe that the Government of Catalonia is doing, has done and is doing its dues. We made it very clear from the first moment, that we should give an answer to the health emergency, with all that it was, therefore, the management of the confinement, but also from the first moment, in the case of the government, and shared with the Parliament, we began to think about what it was to be economic recovery and social protection. And we were still managing the gradual confinement and decontainment that we already constituted this Coreco, this Committee on Economic Reactivation and Social Protection. And the role of the Department of Territories and Sustainability has been to try to put the Green Agenda, the Green Agenda Catalonia 2030, which is now linked to the European Green Deal, at the centre of economic recovery. Not by whim or because we make it up, say, from here, but because it's a requirement I'd say you'll be planetary, but very especially European, too. A few days ago, we arrived at the Diaris as the President of the European Commission posed biodiversity, which forms part of the Green Agenda, at the centre of economic recovery. And, therefore, what we have done from the department, in combination with the rest of the departments, is to design a strategy that seeks to make an efficient use of resources, that seeks, therefore, to reduce gases with winter effects, that seeks to modernise the productive sectors, in this technological revolution that we have to achieve for our industry, that obviously protects natural capital and biodiversity and that ultimately increases climate ambition. I of these 31,000_million euros from the Economic Reactivation and Social Protection Plan, fixed that 63_per_cent, eh? , of these 31,000_million are or are related to the ecological transition, we have priority, and therefore we are talking about projects to aim at zero contamination, sustainable and digitalized mobility, projects to renew buildings in energy key – this is also the Green Agenda. In short, now what's nearby is being able to apply it. And that is why we also ask that the European foundations, the foundations that can be incorporated from Europe in the development of these projects, can incorporate a criterion of competitiveness, of economic return, of population volume, of GDP. That's what we've been designing and claiming from the government of the state since the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the state's infra-financing in the area of dependency]] [[310-00390/12]] The next question is about the state's infra-financing in the area of dependency. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.44.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Counselor El Homrani. The year 2006 was passed the Law of personal autonomy and attention to dependence, and from the first moment there was a law that the State has always been incomplete for what it does to finance. The State has never provided, even one year, the proportional share of financing that it is approaching to apply and to deploy this law, which would be 50 per cent in this case. We are talking, therefore, that the State is transferring a 12-percent of public resources, far removed, therefore, from this 50-per-cent that is compromised and that says the law. This chronic incompliment is translated by head down in 400_millions annually that the Government of the Government of the Republic should be rebre per lei and that it is not rebre, from the beginning, since the law was approved, 400_millions annually for head down that it is not rebre, and that would only allow Catalonia to make a qualitative leap in the system of dependence on all levels. But we already see that the priorities of the State are what they are, and even the "most progressive government of history" is also different in this. Let's talk about a chronic underfunding that the generality covers with a huge overstress, and that's what it has to be. I want to highlight that for this year 2020 the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia incorporate, contribute, more than 1,500_million euros to the promotion of personal autonomy, and this before knowing the needs associated with coronavirus, and therefore probably will still be higher. We have often had to feel how they give us less independence and more dependence, in response to the support of dependent people. So this is just a practical example of why we want all the tools and resources of a state, why we want independence. So we precisely want independence to be able to care for people in a situation of dependence in the way they deserve, too, and above all to guarantee funding and resources for personal autonomy and support for dependent people. Because of this it is, in short, that you can have the maximum resources to make possible the priority that you always explain to us, the priority of your department, the priority of the government, and that from Esquerra Republicana we share: the people, in the center. And this translates into a model for community personal autonomy, for home care, for proximity services, and also for social and health coordination and integration. Counselor, we would appreciate it if you could evaluate the Ple of the Territorial Council of Social Services and Dependence, and whether these forecasts...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.45.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.46.0	...of the infra-financing of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.47.0	Thank you. To answer the word, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.48.0	Thank you, President. Member, there was a territorial council of social policies, and there was a shoc plan, a shoc plan valued throughout the State for 2021 in 600_million euros, with some elements that we share, there are some that we share: how we strengthen the home care service or how they simplify the system's bureaucracy. But, of course, as long as this 2020 presents a plan of shock that its objective is to return to 2012. Under – I think it's good news – the State, in the document, accepts that it is underfunding and that infra-financing is 20_per_cent, but, of course, Catalonia is 12. As always, the citizens and vulnerable citizens of this country always count less. And on top of that, in 2020, we don't have an element that I think we all need to place: learning about the system's weaknesses with the Covid-19 pandemic. No proposal linked to the better conditions of professionals, no proposal linked to the change in the system of deinstitutionalization of the aging, and what is worse: 600_million that after we know not how they will be distributed, without a long look, but after they have placed more conditions than in 2012, with which we do not make a change. What we're asking is, really, sweat and talk. And keep an eye on it. Because it can't be that we're doing this and this year's bid has been made for 2,100_million euros 348 armored. And I'm sorry, that's what you have to say. The priority, right now, I think that all of Europe, is to face the great challenge, which is aging. And either we're good or we're all wrong. And in this sense we went out, we said clearly what we thought... and we went out decedent. Because he's close to making a bet of truth. Four hundred million each year, 600 to divide between so-called autonomous communities and two autonomous cities, we will see. Because, besides, we're always...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.49.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.50.0	...a 12_per_cent, not an 18_per_cent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.51.0	Thank you. [[Question to the Government about the management of the social crisis resulting from the pandemic]] [[310-00388/12]] The next question, about the management of the social crisis resulting from the pandemic. And the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi of the Street. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.52.0	Good morning, everyone. Counselor El Homrani, we all know that the Covid pandemic has generated a health crisis with devastating economic effects that have alarming social consequences. What does the Government plan to do to prevent a traumatic increase in poverty in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Afers Socials, Work and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.54.0	The government, from the first moment on, is not aware that pandemics are never neutral, that have social derivatives and very important derivatives. And the government is not what it has been doing, it is what it has been doing, and it has been doing, in three lines, actions: directly from the government; in collaboration between administrations, with local authorities, and in public-social collaboration. And it is from this – public-social, collaboration between government administrations and direct government tools – that we will get out and continue to strengthen them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.55.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.56.0	Counselor, it is that he has not detailed to me a single, nor a single proposal, and, you see, in Catalonia the pandemic has caught us with a social protection system that was already very qualified. The Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services warns that Catalonia is the autonomous community that less..., with lower social spending per inhabitant, and the one that has reduced the percentage of its budget in social policies in the last ten years. And here you can't blame Madrid, because the ones responsible for designing these budgets are you. Child poverty, with Esquerra at the head of social affairs, has been growing for years. According to Idescat data, only in the two years you have been a counselor, child poverty has increased by 3.3 points. This means that, with its management, already before the pandemic arrived, one_of_each_three children in Catalonia was at risk of poverty. How are we now, counselor, with half the children at risk of exclusion or even worse? Do you have up - to - date data? What does this Government intend to do to protect children in Catalonia from poverty? And, look, I'm asking because we're especially concerned about not just the fact that we've been at the back of social spending for years, we're worried that you might be doing business with funds for children with a particular system of revolving doors and customer networks. We are concerned that the same entities are always the ones that are graced by the rain of millions in the different contracts and subsidies, as if there were not enough entities that carry out a magnificent social work. The fat prize gives the chance that always falls on them, as is the case of the Gentis Foundation, and we are concerned that behind it are several former senior positions of his party, as is the case of former Councilwoman Marta Cid, to set an example, of many of whom we find ourselves. We're worried because very difficult times are coming. Fighting child poverty has never been a priority of your government, and either make a one hundred and eighty-degree turn in your priorities or this winter is going to be very dramatic for many families in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the counselor has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.58.0	I will not enter, because time is short, into the traps we make about the presuppositionary expenditure of previous years..., the presupposed expenditure and not the executed one – and not the executed one –, because always..., we never forget the executed one, in a government that has had presuppositionary powers, and then it is not real, when we compare the presupposed and the executed one. I'm not going in there. What I'm going to tell her is respect for the fears that concern her. This summer we made a brutal effort to guarantee the leure– in other territories it did –; with an important success: they triple public resources to ensure the more leurea beyond the situation that each has. This summer, we made a specific addition, public-public collaboration; we already have five additions to the program contract in various areas sensillarism, social SAC, volunteering and a specific addition to cover the needs of any child during the summer. We've worked. And we worked on a specific benefit, also in the form of an addition, to ensure that at the time of confinement no one..., because everyone is saying: "We are a student, we are a student, we are already three weeks old and they are still a student; I don't know if they want to go to the exam in August, when we have finished school. We are the Administration that we have had resources because those vulnerable families can do the confinement with good situations. We have opened spaces for confinement for people who cannot confine themselves well to Lleida, Girona, Penedès, Lands of the Hebrews, and we will continue to do so. We have made a specific agreement with Red Cree so that we can address these situations in the matter of families with minors.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.59.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.60.0	And we'll keep doing it because what needs to be done... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.61.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the limitation of his functions and the practical consequences that may arise.]] [[317-00227/12]] The next question is for the Vice-President of the Government and is about the current political situation. The formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.62.0	Thank you very much. You have signed an agreement with Junts per Catalunya which says in the final part that you assume limited functions. Can you describe this limitation and the practical consequences it will have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.63.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.64.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, Catalonia does not have a president, has been disqualified because of..., accused of having put up a banner defending what we many share, independent and non-independent, that this country does not have to have people in prison or exile for having put the ballot box. And for what it does to the officials who have to take over the government, in this period of interinitiation, they are the ones that mark the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.65.0	To answer again, the Member has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.66.0	Thank you. Mr Aragonès has signed an agreement with Junts per Catalunya by which you agree to limit your powers in the midst of the pandemic and the economic crisis. This agreement establishes, I quote in its final part: "that it assumes limited functions. I stress the word, which you use, "limited. Some of these limitations are particularly serious, such as the impossibility of having an office in the Palau de la Generalitat; others are directly comical, such as leaving empty the chair occupied by Mr. Torra. The case is that, between the limitations inherent to the presidency in office and those imposed on it by its own governing partners, you run the grave danger of going into history as « Pere Aragonès el Limitado. The situation could not be more serious at the worst possible time. Catalonia now has, in your opinion, two presidents, who call it « the Legitimate, which is in Waterloo, and « the Limited, which would become you, in Barcelona, without either of you serving a great deal, because you yourself have decided to limit yourself in your own competences by causing this situation. There are four long months left for the elections. Catalonia cannot afford to have a limited president for so long. You have some obligations you must fulfill and some responsibilities you too. It is curious to see how you started the separatist process by demanding more skills for Catalonia and you are going to end up giving up those who do give you the law and that you call it « cunning and « intelligent confrontation. [[The timer laughs.]] Don't miss it. What a cunning trick yours, little intelligence yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.67.0	To answer the word again the Vice President of the Generality. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.68.0	Thank you very much, President. Miri, Mr. Fernández, we will not normalize what is not normal and it is not normal for this country to have no President of the Generality in office for a banner to the Palau of the Generality demanding the release of political prisoners and the return of exiles. This is what's not normal and we don't think it's normal. That said, he did not preside, but there is government and the government continues and the government will continue to exercise all and every of its functions, all and every one of its powers, according to what the laws of this Parliament say, that a government in function, therefore, has limited functions, but we will exercise them until we are allowed the laws that this Parliament gives us. Miri, on the days following the disqualification of the President of the Generality we have met four times the Executive Committee of Crisis Follow-up against the Covid. And this is the top priority: fighting the pandemic. We've been working to anticipate all the situations. This past week, despite the fact that the president has been disqualified, nine proactive measures have been adopted to advance us to the increase in the number of infections that have occurred in Amposta, Roquetes, Tortosa. We've been scribbled at Salt and we'll continue to act as we've done to Osona and so many other places, anticipating us. While you, in Madrid, are in an absurd flag war, in an absurd flag war demonstrating inefficiency and absolute incompetence – and you want to talk about intelligence, look at Madrid and your party companion – here we have not stopped working and we do not stop working. Also in the economic and social aspect, because obviously this health crisis has economic and social effects that worry us, that we take and follow all the measures that are in our abyss. We want to exercise all the competitions, we want all the responsibility, that's why we are independent and that's why this country deserves the independence of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.69.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the priorities of the Government to face the health, social, economic and economic crisis]] [[317-00231/12]] The next question to the Vice-President is about the priorities of the Government to face the health, social, economic and economic crisis, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Ms.Jéssica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.70.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President-in-Office, you know that the risk of resurgence is disappearing, that surely we are waiting for a delay, therefore, complicated by the Covid, that the situation in the first place is telling us professionals that every time it is more desperate, that we have the MIRs of vacancy, that the Union of Metges has also announced a vacancy for the coming week, and before this scene, we ask ourselves, if you are in favour of intelligent confrontation or intelligent cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer that, you have the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.72.0	Thank you very much, President. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, no, because there is no President and I will follow you in the times you need. There will not be a new president until the citizenry hears it and it will surely be through..., as it should be and as close as possible, through the deputies of this Parliament. We will continue to work, continue to work in the face of other things, and in an absolutely priority way, to the pandemic and its health effects, to the economic and social effects, with the will to work with all administrations and not fail to take action. A government in function has limited functions for the law, but always those that are urgent and that make the general interest prevail are authorized to carry them to term and we take them and continue to take them. I have already taken some steps in the health field, but I can explain to you, for example, the magnitude of the pressure, the second that we will do; 1,230_million, which we did in July, and now, therefore, 200_million more in the area of sanitation and 20_million more in the area of universities, added to the 6th of this week's culture, because they are sectors that are patenting, and much, the effects of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.73.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.74.0	I don't know if you've felt good, but I said "chairman on duty, and until now I think we might agree. All the way, I don't think I've answered the question either. I already say that we are for intelligent cooperation before all those who believe that they only have to make pacts between them – there is a sector of independence that you know that you only want to make a pact, that you just want to negotiate between them. We believe that there are certain fears that need great country agreements, and to shield and transform public health we believe that it is one of those fears that it does deserve a great country agreement. Because, besides, the pandemic has taken over us with a very sick health system, and this, obviously, has some responsibility, which was Convergence. It is also a god, and it is also a response to an ideology, such as market speech, and it is also a result of public policies such as retailing. And you, Republican Left, who have been holding the Department of Salvation for five years, since 2015, so you haven't managed this situation. Now everyone, it seems that you, too, are talking about transforming and armoring public health, and the truth is that we celebrate it, we're not very happy. And that's why we think that we need to get to work from now on, and we need a national pact for salvation that, among other things, must avoid and ban retailing, must put primary attention to the center, to the color of the system, and so it must also consider reaching the 7_percent of our catal GDP in this funding. And if you're talking about money, because you're often referring to the lack of resources, so I have to remind you that right now you're negotiating some general state assumptions, that the central government has made the deficit target more flexible in a 2.2_per_cent– I said there yesterday, when you claimed 1_per_cent, it's more than double – and that, besides, there's also a new Covid fund to shield public services from €13,400_million. So I'm now convinced, I'm running for office – I know he doesn't like it, but he's running for office – that you're going to tell me now that he does want to transform and that he does want to shield public health, but how the words take away the wind, we...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.75.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.76.0	...they want to deliver it to you. [[the president removes the microphone's use to the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments]] These axes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.77.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.78.0	...and a mask in favor of public sanitation. [[The deputy delivers a folder and a mask to the vice president of the government and economic advisors i Hisenda.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.80.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We'll read about it, obviously. In fact, Councilwoman Vergés this July proposed the need for an alliance to defend the system of salvation; a system of salvation that we want public and that we want universal, and that in the later years there have also been transformations in governance. I will quote three examples: Hospital de Berga, Hospital de Reus, Hospital de Móra d'Ebre. There have been public enterprises in the Health Department to improve governance and coverage in the universal sphere, as it must not be in any other way, so obviously in the area of health care for all citizens. You've made reference to the resources. I totally agree with the fact that there are no details for you, but we need to guarantee the resources. We defended 1_per_cent for this year, by 2020, and this year is 0.2. Therefore, we lack a 0.8 – approximately, we would be talking between 1,900 and 2,000_million euros of difference. So let's go over the numbers. In view of the coming year, what is being communicated by the Ministry of Heritage is that there will be no Covid, as there was this year, and that they replace it by deficiency. What we say is: very well, this allows us to guarantee the level of spending. But also what we ask is that these resources do not come in the form of a loan, that they must become– the loan..., the usual, who leaves them, to demand that they return the money–, but that transfers like this year must come. We must succeed, and I count on your complicity, which you are in the Government of the State, to help us achieve [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] That these moneys come to the generality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.81.0	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.82.0	...and we don't have to get them back from here to the state government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.83.0	The next question to the Vice-President is the formula... [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the initiative in the alliance for a health pact]] [[317-00229/12]] ...on behalf of the Socialist and Progressive Units Parliamentary Group, Deputy Miquel Iceta, and it is about the current political situation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.84.0	Thank you, President. If I were to say so: Honourable Mr Vice-President of the Generality as President, a few months ago, at the instigation of President Torra, they appointed a committee of experts to transform the public health system. A few days ago, this committee delivered the result of its work, and the government is incorporating it into its strategy of transformation of the public health system. The question is the following: in various control sessions, when I asked President Torra in the debate on general political orientation, also in the specific debate on sanitation, we stayed that this document could serve as a basis for a pact for salvation that President Torra considered indispensable, urgent and to which he invited us. My question is simple: think about taking the initiative so that we can work and fulfill, if we do well, this pact has salvation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.86.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Iceta, you made a joke about the name, but in any case, what we would never do is normalize repression. That said, we're already doing it. In fact, the Vergés Counsellor is working on this alliance for the health system. The opinion of the Committee of Experts is an excellent basis. In fact, after this committee of external experts, let us say to the Government, despite the fact that many of them are workers of the public health system, what we are doing is, therefore, through the government departments – of the managers who are to land it in this inter-departmental commission – to incorporate and see the final realization of the measures they propose. And in this sense, therefore, the will is to be able to agree with the maximum number of agents, both agents of the health system, so many administrations, as well, obviously, political forces. So President Torra was compromised, and obviously his government can do nothing but ratify this compromise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.87.0	Thank you, Vice President. To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When you want, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.88.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Generality as President. Perhaps I did not need my question sufficiently: do you think that parliamentary groups should be convened to establish the health pact of which it is ugly but, in speaking, did President Torra propose it? Before, Mrs. Albiach also spoke of this issue. We need a pact, we need assumptions, we need professional care, we need primary care and we need to strengthen the public. Actually, starting all over. What we say is that his government does not practice the agreement among parliamentary groups. Look at how many autonomous communities and assemblies have established pacts for economic recovery and social reconstruction. Catalonia has the dubious honour of being one of the few autonomous communities that has not yet completed this process of political concertation. It seems to me very well and I think it is his obligation to do a consultation with the health sector on health, but also a political pact, as President Torra had advocated in this chamber. And that's why I'm calling again, apart from the Health Department, logically and as it is its obligation, I'm talking to the agents who are involved in the provision of the health service, we're also doing it between the parties. And we expect you to call on your government to, from the experts' document, be able to establish this debate and eventually arrive at this pact. Pattin more, concert more and compare less.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.90.0	Thank you, President. As I said, committee of experts to the interdepartmental team that is landing and realising the proposals, and once this work has advanced in a very concrete way because you can see exactly in which proposals, with what quantification, with which time horizon are set, so obviously it will be shared because we want to add to everyone. We want to add to everyone in whom are the great reptes in the field of salvation. But we want to add the maximum number of political forces in so many other folds, and one example is the Economic Recovery and Social Protection Plan that we approved by the Government last July, which obviously has to be the basis for having the axes on which Catalonia stands for these European reactivation foundations. And I'd like to take advantage of that, so, to ask, in relation to these foundations, the maximum transparency. Transparency on which are the resources that will come to Catalonia, transparency on the mechanism, on the procedure that will have to follow Catalonia to access these funds. For the moment what we've seen are pictures, they're pictures, right? What's the announcement of this, but there's no real meaning to it. And I think it's important to claim it, because in the end, from these European reactivation foundations, it's going to be the Catalonia of the future. And the Catalonia of the future that we want fair, that we want free, that we want feminist, that we want sustainable and that we want ahead, so obviously we have to build it among all, and, therefore, in this government, as President Torra said, we are open to the participation of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.91.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about Felipe VI's own visit to Barcelona]] [[317-00228/12]] The next question asks the formula on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà the Lord Sergi Sabrià – the next question to the Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.92.0	Good morning, Speaker of Parliament, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. Vice President, I can't start this intervention without saying two things first. The first, to the Tamara Carrasco: how unjust, how much pain two years after one of the greatest repressive absurdities we have experienced in this country. We're with you, Tamara, and also with Adri. And the second, which we want to make very clear: today is not an ordinary control session, it is not because Catalonia does not have a president today, because the State is against everything, also against democracy, against the polls, against the votes. Now the Supreme has cleared the freedom of expression to charge President Torra, and this cannot be normalized in any way. And that's for sure Philip of Borbo knows, too, that he'll come, it's supposed to be now, you'll be selling to Catalonia. Last week we saw, we experienced a clever episode in which the judiciary and the monarchy took each other's wounds so that they could not share a scene in Barcelona at the delivery of judicial dispatches. A phone call between monarchy and the judiciary that once again demonstrated a great deal to us: to what state we face and how much need this republic is. A battle between Moncloa and Zarzuela that does not cease to be a battle between socialists, who are no longer Republicans, if ever were, and a monarchy that does not respect democracy, if ever respected it. You will finally become a pilot and traveler to Catalonia, but there will be no representation of the Generality, nor of the Parliament nor of the Barcelona Assembly to the act where the Spanish king, Philip VI will attend. The Felipe VI who did not want Carme Forcadell, because he did not like the results of the polls in Catalonia, knows that he is not welcome. For us, he's not the king of Catalans and Catalans. We in Esquerra have been clear for many years, but there are many more who saw it clearly after October 3. A king who condones police brutality, who condones corruptiles, should ask forgiveness of the victims of the State's rape in the thousands of retaliated independenceists. It is the only – the only – thing that should come to do this person in Catalonia, and it will not do so. Vice President, we applaud that no one from the Government has decided to participate in this act, and we ask him how much he values this Government's visit to Catalonia by Felipe Borbó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer now, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.94.0	Thank you, President. Congressman Sabria, we won't normalize it. We will not normalize what is a situation of repression, which is a situation in which from the Presidency of the Generality to the University of Barcelona, which was, therefore, to annul by judicial judgment an agreement of its cloister in which it legitimately criticized the judgment of the Supreme Court of 14 October of the past year. We want to be mortified, and we will not accept to be mortified, and therefore we will always raise our eyes to defend all ideas, and especially those that have a majority of Parliamentarians, who have rejected the confidence of citizens to defend them from institutions. The episode of Tamara Carrasco, to whom from here on behalf of the Government I also send a fraternal embrace and all solidarity, is an exhibition more than the impunity of certain powers of the State has been acting in Catalonia in recent years. This impunity that you see and that is based on this triangle of repression between the leadership of the judiciary, the National Police and the Civil Guard, presided over by the head of the State, by Felipe de Borbó. Philip of Borbó in his October 3 speech broke the neutrality that even those monarchs who still remained in Catalonia had said he had. For us, the monarchy has never been neutral, neither in the past nor now. But in any case, that October 3rd ended this divorce with the citizenry of Catalonia. It should reflect on the crown that the three most relevant institutions of the country – the Government of the Government of Catalonia, the Parliament of Catalonia and the Assembly of the capital of the country – therefore decline to participate in a photo because they do not want to, because we do not want to see 'associated to a head of the State that has aligned itself with the judicial right, that has made its own the speech of '' to the ones who shouted that they were attenuating us on October 1. Therefore, we will not normalize it, we will not allow it to continue acting as it does on behalf of the Government of the State and we will continue to defend it. You said it, and I'm saying it, the Catalans don't have kings and the Catalans don't have kings either. And, therefore, this country that has a large republican majority has the opportunity to reconfirm it in this Parliament, in the assemblies and in the ballot box.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.95.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government about the presuppositional management]] [[310-00389/12]] The next question to the Government is about the presuppositional management and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr José María Cano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.96.0	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, in April they approved the 2020 budgets, when we were immersed in the Covid-19, a budget which is in force and which is a wet paper, because it does not take into account the deep crisis that we have on top of it. And they did so despite all our warnings, knowing that they are unserviceable accounts, as you yourselves acknowledge, because they are not accounts that help to alleviate the social problems and urgent needs that Catalan families currently have. And what is more irresponsible, if any, has been more than half a year and we have only seen unrelated patches that do not strategically address the situation. The raw reality is that it has not moved a single finger to draw up new budgets, and that is its responsibility. It is already late, and you know it, Mr Aragonès, and you can no longer present them with limited irresponsibility. That is why we ask you how the budget will adapt to the serious crisis in the face of its interim situation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.98.0	Thank you very much, President. If you've been grateful to yourself, we've continued with the assumptions of 2017 to deal with a pandemic that has had economic and social effects that will put us around..., we'll almost get there, but we'll be around a 10_per_cent fall in GDP. Behind these figures – behind these figures – there are many life projects cut short, there are many Persians down and there are many businesses that cost them to open, and people who have difficulty getting there at the end of the month, and, therefore, to be able to provide their own with the resources needed to be able to live. This government, from the assumptions approved in April 2020, has made two extensions of assumptions, which are no smaller: one of 1,230_million euros, in July, and another of 220 euros, which we will make in the morning, which will go to health and universities. Therefore, together with the presuppositional reprioritizations, which are around 600_million, which have done the same departments, we did, give us the tools to be able to face this situation of the own months, so, with prepared public finances and, what is more important, with departments that are ready to execute the totality of the presupposition, the totality of enlargements to give support to the citizen and citizen, which is our only priority.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.99.0	Thank you, Vice President. To answer that question, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.100.0	Mr Aragonès, I have given you objective data on what is a demise of functions, data that are irrefutable and that are in the sight of the citizenry. The first is that the budgets we have do not serve this pandemic situation; that is what citizens and their entire government see, even if you refuse to acknowledge it publicly. In fact, the councilwoman who had it more clearly, that of Enterprise, who knew the difficult situation of autonomous and small enterprises, directly threw it away. Vice President, you're leaving Catalan families at the stand. The second objective is that you have not developed any strategy to adapt to the situation we are suffering, while society collapses and GDP collapses at a rate of 10_per_cent per year, leaving Catalan families at the stand. The third objective is that you have not moved a single finger, nor given a single order to draw up new emergency budgets, which is what Catalonia needs, leaving Catalan families at the stake. And I add a _fourth objective given, so that I do not come with excuses, the whole opposition – all – we have offered to collaborate in this terrible situation, because it is time to add efforts and you have rejected us, leaving the Catalan families at the stand. He does not realize, but he has long disconnected from the problems of the Catalan economy, from the real problems of Catalans. Mr. Aragonès, why did you leave Catalan families at the stake? Why have you abandoned workers, self - employed persons, and small businesses? Explain it to you, because I assure you I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.102.0	I believe that it is you who disconnected from all the measures that we have adopted and that you as a Member have an obligation to inform yourself and, even though you do not do so, quite rightly, you can enter all the questions to the Government, that we answer them on time. That said, we have articulated credit and downstream measures to small and medium-sized enterprises. More than 1,000 million euros, and we started doing it just as the pandemic started to go down. We have articulated measures to autonomous, cultural workers, we have guaranteed the continuity of contracts, because many small businesses that work for the Administration and that for three months were not able to act – for example, school workers, for example – can continue to pay the subs to their workers and workers. But now we have a more important challenge than it is in the area of the European Reactivation Fund. And I would like to ask for the support of all the parliamentary forces. We have sent a letter to the European Commission in which the Economic Recovery and Social Protection Plan was approved in July to share it, because we have plans, because they have proposals, because Catalonia is ready to opt for the maximum of these European foundations. And what we would like to ask here is also the collaboration of all parliamentary groups and which is not just dedicated to short-running electoralism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.103.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the government's actions to deal with the health situation]] [[317-00230/12]] The next question is to the Vice President of the Government, and it's about the appreciation of the political situation. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.104.0	Mr Aragonès, the pandemic is starting to get out of hand, economic prospects are getting worse, and the Catalans are waiting for the government to stop banding and codating and to live up to the circumstances. I ask you what you will do in the coming months to deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, you have the word to the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.106.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, we will continue to do what we are doing, which is to anticipate us from the point of view of health, when we can apply measures not wait for the Government of the State to come or for us to be in an incidence of five hundred, six hundred or eight hundred cases per hundred_ thousand inhabitants to act. We're acting preemptively. And we do this without shaking our wrists, knowing that sometimes they are tough decisions, but we are willing to take them; measures that mean restriction of activities, that means sometimes restriction of mobility. We did it in Segria, we did it in the metropolitan area, we did it this same week in some municipalities of the Ebre Lands. From the sanitary point of view. From the economic and social point of view, continue articulating support measures. And one of the most important, which is not to lower public spending, to keep the public sector as a countercyclical tool. At a time of economic difficulties the public sector must not contribute to the recession, but rather to the opposite: it must be a guarantee of maintaining economic activity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.107.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.108.0	Mr Aragonès, you have expressed to me general issues and principles, but no plan to deal with these next four months. Mr. Torra came with racist writings under your arm and you disguised yourself as moderate, but you came with the "Spanisha ens steals under your arm. You belong to that generation of separatist politicians who make politics based on lies and aggravation. There is nothing more to see than what happens in this plenary and in which they will come, I suppose, with Mr Torra, who has been condemned for hanging a banner of false content and refusing to withdraw the request of the Electoral Board during the election period, or the siege of his department by a crowd in 2017, that you celebrate it every year and what was that is an attempt to coerce a judicial commission so that there is no evidence of the misappropriation that occurred in your department while you were Secretary of Economics. You have many things in common with Mr. Torra: he obeyed Mr. Puigdemont from Waterloo; you will obey what Mr. Junqueras says from prison. But Catalans who are having a bad time don't deserve to be governed by two people who only look for their own interests. You already know what the Catalans have said according to the latest survey of the CEO, that what they want is management, management and management, and do not process, process and process, which is what you offer. Are they going to keep fighting in the government as we've seen the whole legislature? Will they continue to attack all the institutions as we have seen in this plenary – the monarchy, the judges, the Mossos, which are now an obstacle to their breakup plan? You are in time to do something useful and fight the pandemic. Do you know the difference between you and us? That your plan is aimed only at 51_per_cent of Catalans and for a break-up objective, and we work to respond to the real needs of the 100_per_cent of Catalans, without ideological distinctions. Put yourself, Mr Aragonès, to work as long as you have left, let yourself be confronted and think of those who are going through the worst.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.109.0	To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.110.0	Thank you very much, President. Oh, Mr. Carrizosa, so yes, we are independent. We're independent, left-wing, Republicans, and we'll defend these installations, and we'll do it with all the legitimacy because we have the support of the ballot box. You were talking about the CEO. Look at the CEO as well as what your people say. Look what the CEO also says about his or her voters or exvoters. I also look at it, and think about whether your attitude of generating chasm in this chamber and saying a lot that some of us only think about the process..., but you only talk about the independenceists and only talk about us and little about the need of the citizens. Think about it, too. What are we going to do in the next few weeks? I said to him: to continue working, to continue taking all health measures, not just emergency measures, but to anticipate future scenes that we do not want to arrive but that if they arrive we will be prepared, for example the five multipurpose buildings in five reference hospitals in Catalonia, which will allow to increase by 490 liters– 490 liters– those that can be allocated to ICUs, if there is a slight and very significant increase in the pandemic. We will continue to work with the presuppositionary enlargements in the economic and social sphere. We can fully implement the premise, for example, with help in the social field, in the industry sector or in the housing field, which foresees the assumption that you tried to blow up carrying it to the Council of State Guarantees, widening it uselessly for one month. And, therefore, we are still working. The question is, what are you going to do next? They'll keep trying to crack or they'll get to work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.111.0	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.112.0	...for the citizens of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.113.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the government about digitization in the nine ways of working at the Covid-19]] [[310-00392/12]] The next question is about digitization in the nine ways of working on the Covid-19. It is a question to the Government and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.114.0	Yes; good morning, President Torrent, advisors, advisors, deputies and deputies. Actually, we wanted to address this to the advisor. He might think about this or ask about what the impact of digitalization is in the field of teletreball, basically. The eruption of the Covid has changed our way of working, our way of living, our way of relating. And also, above all, the impact on businesses, on self-government or on peppers, but also on public administration. The virulence of the pandemic has caused the deployment of teletreball to be accelerated, abrupt, forced and without the preparation of an adapted environment. In fact, the pandemic has brought forth our weak and our strong. There are many experts – philosophers, pedagogues – who announce..., or worry that this digitalization process does not go along with the guarantee of rights and freedoms. We defended three yes: yes to teletreball, yes to digitalization, but also to some rules of the game of rights and freedoms. This summer, in September, the Digital Economy and Society Index deia..., and placed Catalonia in the top five of the most digitally advanced countries in Europe. For another band, in September 2020, Eurostat places the percentage of teletreball in Spain at 4.8, Denmark at 7.8, Holland at 14.1, Austria at 9.9, Finland at 14 and Estonia at 6.8. In this sense, Catalonia is far away. In the context of the Generality of Catalonia, we understand that it is the first Administration to regulate teletreball, this August, but in advance of the outbreak of the crisis, already, at the Negotiating Table as with pilot plans, the Department of Digital Policies and Public Administration had pushed teletreball, before the pandemic, as a new form of employment relationship. Therefore, in this context that digitalization has accelerated, that teletreball is a reality, we want to ask how it affects, to the new regulation made by the Government of the Generality, this teletreball, above all in these yes, which are: yes to teletreball, yes to digitalization, but also to the rights and freedoms in the exercise of this teletreball. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.115.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.116.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, allow my first words to continue to denounce the shameful feeling that the very honorable President Torra has disqualified and that obviously, therefore, we will not normalize in any way. Member, these last few days have come to light some figures on different institutions, which have given data on what they are feeling at these times throughout the digitalisation process not only in Catalonia, but also at European level. In this sense, I must say that the technology sector in Catalonia is becoming a new engine of the Catalan economy. I said the EPA, I said Eurostat, but I also said the recent CTecno barometer : increase in employment and also increase in Catalonia's GDP thanks to this sector, which is feeling more and more decisive. We already knew, but the pandemic, in a way, has made it visible. Digitalization is changing everything, too – as you have commented – the way to work. So far, surely, the work is very measured by the presence. And maybe we should start to understand that the nine ways of working should also incorporate nine ways of measuring work. Measure the work more by object, measure also, in this case, less presence and more excellence and more efficiency. And also, obviously, the figures that give us all these barometers are that teletreball, these past years, is also increasing productivity. In short, teletreball is also becoming a good antidote against depopulation. Against empty Catalonia, more optical fiber. Against depopulation, more connectivity. I could give a lot of examples. Walking through many municipalities of the country, and from Torredembarra to Bolvir, Puigverd d'Agramunt, Monells, Sant Celoni, Sant Carles de la Ràpita, Puigcerda, all these municipalities, to name a few, are increasing their censuses and, in a way, is also thanks and in front of the teletreball. The teletreball will also, in my opinion, be a lever, or the major lever of transformation of public administration into the next few years as we have never lived before. And, therefore, the Government of Catalonia approved, before the summer holidays, a decree to lay the foundations for it – with trade union agreement, I want to remind you – and, therefore, become the first Administration to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.117.0	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. [[Ask the Government about business recovery strategies to emerge from the crisis for Covid-19]] [[310-00393/12]] The next question is about the strategies of business recovery to emerge from the crisis produced by Covid-19, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.118.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Councillors, advisors, deputies, deputies, today we hold the first session of the Government without the presence of the President of the Government of Catalonia, President Torra. We want to put it in full because we cannot, nor do we want, normalize repression. Normalizing this situation would be normalizing a situation of totally unjust repression, as we have seen these two years of injustice that have affected the citizen Tamara. Now, before the senseless state of incapacitating the president of the Generality in the midst of the pandemic, we would act responsibly and now announce that Together for Catalonia we would ensure governance at a time of extreme gravity, with a health, economic and social crisis without precedent. And, in this sense, Counsellor Tremosa, we want to ask you about European foundations. We believe that this is a great opportunity for businesses in our country, especially the largest ones, but it is also an opportunity that has a tractor effect on small and medium-sized businesses representing 90 % of Catalonia's business fabric. Actually, we're talking that more than 95 percent of businesses have fewer than two workers. This plan must maintain competitiveness, this plan must maintain excellence, innovation in research, in research, must make our companies pioneer in emerging issues, such as digital transformation, such as climate transition. So much so, the experience tells us clearly, that the Spanish State is always late and bad, and especially the failure of the government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who has suffered for a long time, during these months, with decisions that have always been late and bad, with payments from the ERTOS, with no help to the self, when the application of guaranteed income comes late, etc. As of next week, companies will be able to start presenting the first drafts, but Europe will be the one to decide. It's transcending six months because our economy didn't lose momentum. We can't afford it. We cannot afford what happened to the whole tourism area, in which the Spanish State did not present – the government of Pedro Sánchez – a project for a sector as strategic as tourism. In this sense, the Government of the Generality approved this advisory committee yesterday, but it seems that the Government of the Spanish State is still in the late and bad direction that it is not doing its dues to guarantee an allocation of €140,000_million. And, in this sense, we want to ask you, Counsellor Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. Time's up. To answer the question, has the word the Counsellor d'Empresa i Coneixement, the Lord Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.120.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the first place, I also regret the absence of President Torra. I take the words of the university minister Manuel Castells when he says it's a disproportionate feeling. I would add that it is very troubling for the previous one to create; perhaps in a while, to say a word, we may be disabled. In any case, we are talking about European foundations. Today, finally, we have a conference of President Pedro Sánchez, which we will listen attentively. There are European countries that have already published lists of concrete projects with names and surnames and, therefore, here we are late. But, well, if we're between the lines, then it'll be worth it. I, who have been to college some time studying the economic impact of tax flows on growth, may say that this European recovery foundation is an authentic blessing. It is a great opportunity, and it shows us another benefit of relevance to the euro and to the European Union, in this case Catalonia. The southern part of Europe, with very different conditions to those of the previous crises, a quantity of funds that will enable us to get out of the crisis more quickly. Now, until now, we've only seen a photograph of a Pedro Sánchez with IBEX 35 and we haven't seen a photograph talking about European fountains with peppers or chambers of commerce. And that, then, is disturbing. Yesterday, for example, in an ICESE act, which was made on this question, some of the participants had to do so because there were not enough projects to achieve 140,000_million. Therefore, from the Government of the Generality we offer, together with other councils, all the maximum cooperation and disposition so that I do not lose any of these euros. For the information I have, until now the Spanish government's predisposition is good, and so much good goes on until the end. But, well, in any case, it is true that, if we look at the last twenty years, when money has been distributed from Madrid, Catalonia has received an 8, 10_per_cent of the total, as, for example, with public investment, hands-in-hand. On the other hand, when it distributes Europe money, with open, transparent and competitive processes, it turns out that Catalonia, which represents 1.5_percent of GDP and the European population, in the last 20 years has won between 3 and 4_percent of European funds. Why? Because here there is a great scientific technological infrastructure, a lot of public-private collaboration, and, therefore, here there is a great capacity for power in Europe, to turn them into economic growth, to have an effect of reddening on the peppers that not only benefits the Catalan economy, but also other territories of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.121.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the motivations that have prevented facilitating access to information about public educational centres that are cultural partners]] [[320-01688/12]] The next question is about the motivations that have prevented access to information about the public educational centres that are members of Ómnium Cultural, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Sonia Sierra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.122.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ... and one foreword: I am not monarchical but I must be very rude to say that the head of state is not welcome in Catalonia. Speak for yourselves, but not for most Catalans, that we are educated people. Having said that, Mr. Counsellor, a year ago the information came out that there were Catalan schools attached to Ómnium. Ómnium is an entity of marked partisan character that defends secession and disobedience. On the one hand, it is clear that the majority of families cannot agree with this entity, because election after election is shown that the majority of Catalans want to remain Spanish, and on the other hand it is also evident that the majority of Catalans comply with the laws and do not want privileges for politicians, as claims Ómnium. But it is also that from Citizens we are convinced that education is sacred, that children do not touch each other, and that schools have to be as far away as possible from the wars of those who want to impose their ideology. Ómnium tries to indoctrinate and, for example, takes advantage of literary contests to bring yellow ties and another party symbolology to the schools. From Citizens we want to know which schools are affiliated to Ómnium, because families have the right to know what their money is spent on. Counselor, do you agree with me that families have a right to such information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.123.0	To answer the question, has the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.124.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, it's not the Department of Education's job to qualify legal entities, to qualify them in any way. It's not the Department of Education's job. You asked that, and we answered on October 16th, when the department did not have this information, since it was part of the autonomy of running centres. You asked again and on the 25th of February we told you that according to the information system Sphere, that it is the system that analyzes the economic management of the centers, that they were external in an ordinary way..., there was no expenditure associated with the NIF of Cultural. And you asked me again this summer. And I have to tell you one thing clearly, according to the speech of Mr. Carrizosa: this summer we had a lot of work to put a team of people in the department to work school for school, to go through school accounts for school, to see if any school is full of Culturalism. When we have the human possibilities to do so, we will. But I insist that I do not believe that this is a major interest of the people of Catalonia at these times. And, in any case, he points out that you have a certain obsession with some issues, that you don't help us. Now, if that's so important, when we have time and people to devote to this aspect we'll do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.125.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.126.0	Thank you. I've been asking him for that information for a year and he hasn't given it to me. And your obligation is to have that information and make it public. But not only because it is asked by Citizens, but to try to avoid indoctrination in the classrooms. But, of course, how are we going to ask separatists to try to avoid indoctrination in the classrooms, if that is precisely one of the fundamental pillars of Catalan nationalism? How are we going to ask Esquerra to do what it can to get Ómnium out of school, if Ómnium and Esquerra defend exactly the same thing? Look, Mr. Counselor, you're being piled up with complaints about your opacity, and that means you have a lot to hide. But there are more and more families who are not willing to allow you to do what you want in schools and to use them to impose your ideology. And when I talk about indoctrination, I don't mean the teacher, let it be clear, among other things, because I am a teacher and I defend the teachers much more than you do. I refer to separatist politicians and their terminals as Ómnium and Platform for Language. We will continue to work, unlike you, to avoid indoctrination in the classrooms and to make money really go to improve education and not to fatten your separatist chiringuitos such as Ómnium and Platform per la Llengua. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.127.0	I've got the word again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.128.0	Yes, thank you, President. Deputy, Prime Minister, you're a liar. Schooling is a lie, and how it's a lie is very hard to fight. You're lying. [[Greetings.]] And you're lying to the flag that keeps its inefficiencies. You're lying about the flag that's holding up your lack of project. And second of all, you know perfectly well, Congresswoman, that whenever you've asked for something, we've always answered it. By paper, when he did it for paper; by phone, when he did it for phone, and by email, when he did it for mail. Now, we won't let your lies destroy our school system. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.129.0	Thank you, Counselor. So this is the control session. [[General debate on the health situation (continuation)]] [[255-00015/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the continuation of the general debate on the health situation that we started yesterday, and, at these moments, to follow it, has the word, on behalf of the Government, the Health Counsellor, Mrs Alba Vergés. He'll advise, when he can and when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.130.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, I begin the reply by replicating the group proposing this monogram on the health system, on the situation of sanitation after this impact of the Covid. You have summoned this House because, presumably, hearing them speak to us yesterday, you must explain the solutions to the back of the health system. Luckily, there are more people in this room – more people in this room –, much more plurality, much more proposed, you agree or not, than you explained yesterday. Now I heard the education counselor saying to them: "You're a fan of lying the flag because of your lack of project; I'd say... I wouldn't say that yesterday you lied, that wouldn't tell me, but I would say the demagogue of launching headlines and headlines, and not a single proposal. I hope that there will be a real proposal in the motions for resolutions. One thing– one thing– one thing– they said that I thought it was really relevant, that in this crisis, too, emotional, and that it will have, of course, because already it has, a great impact on mental salvation, they have emphasized suicide. Because of the stigma that exists in our society, I am very glad that they spoke about it, and, in fact, they brought it here on different occasions from the hands of one of their deputies. To get to know everyone, we are developing the suicide prevention plan with more than a hundred participants. Also from the hand of a meeting that I held with one of the associations of family members, associations, who are also victims of these suicides. Therefore, this impulse that we want to give to mental health policies is also seen here, and only because of this fact of the stigma that has referred to suicide, I like that we can talk about it in this House. Let him say that this does not really connect with how the intervention began, so his spokesman, the president of the group: "The Catalans are scared..., and you go to urgent, "emergency, "gravity to come to let us go. We know, we know, that we are in a difficult situation in many respects; we know, that this impact of the Covid is there. And that's why we're absolutely willing to do everything we can from now on to correct this situation, and above all to have citizenship at the side in this whole health system transformation response. What do you mean we've got collapsing ICUs? I repeat: we multiplied by three, we more than multiplied by three our capacity for critical beds, with a peak of 1,529 people entering now only for a single disease, which is the Covid-19. You know it perfectly – you know it perfectly. And all the centers made themselves available to be able to keep the places available with the necessary equipment to be able to attend to everyone absolutely. This was the answer of the Catalonian health system to the Covid in this area that you said so much, and, therefore, I would leave the messages of por, embrace the citizenry in what they need, and, in this, we will find ourselves, of course. Many other aspects have emerged, on the part of other parliamentary groups, some which I would like to highlight. Some phrase such as ‘assemblies have found themselves alone' – MP Escarp –, ‘we have transferred the problems to their resolution. No, no, And I think I explained it here in my intervention: they are an indispensable part of the answers, they are an essential part of the solution – an essential part. And so we have explained to us, we have not transferred them, but we have explained it to us, and we have questioned ourselves in the many meetings that I have had with the local world of all the territories of Catalonia: mayors, mayors; presidents, presidents of regional councils, members of parliament, some of their party, many other parties, in the ranks of some parties that are in this Chamber, to say the least, just one or two. Therefore, essential part of the solution – essential –, and working hand in hand and putting in value this collaborative work, that the joints have always shown themselves absolutely willing to work with Greeting, and we have shown them that they were, therefore, this roundabout. And I think I explained it yesterday: social workers, mediators, civic agents, community agents, informants and informants; that's all we need for this epidemic management, and that's why we need to work together. This is the ultimate loyalty, which you said: "The loyalty of the government before I know what. Some of us get the UME, every day the UME – every day – as the great problem of the Covid. And you were talking about loyalty. You're always happy. This is the joy: working in coordination with the assemblies of our country, working in coordination with other administrations, and you know, that we have done it too, which they have not done in other places. And the consequences that pay them? Ciutadania. And if not, the circus that we are seeing between the Community of Madrid – certainly governed by the People's Party and the Ciutadans – and the Government of the Spanish State, where the only thing they do together is pose a very nice scene, full of flags. Is this the answer and its joy that they give to the citizenry? Is this the answer of loyalty they give to the citizenry? We have always made it clear... that they always want to accuse us of empty falls, we have never left any empty falls and we have always said: all the empty falls that serve us to defend the interests of Catalonian citizens, we will never leave them. And that's how we did it, and that's how we showed it. Therefore, this coordination that we have had absolutely with everyone and no return to talk to anyone. There are very important and interesting fears that I pointed out and about what you, like parliamentary groups, so you also made me your thoughts. One of them is primary care. Primary care, with this need for more inversion, more resources, also to recover face-to-face. That is to say, it is not a matter of getting the primary attention back before, but of taking advantage of these organizational changes to help us with the transformation that it is looking for, but obviously we must also be able to recover face-to-face and reduce this part of visits that are now being made by telephone, telematically, and that cause disgust to citizens and also professionals. In this we are: to provide the primary of this organizational capacity and resources so that it can adapt; it is the resilience of what I was talking about yesterday, and contribute to this real transformation. It is the great opportunity that primary care has, the great opportunity that we have, as primary care, to prove that we are all when citizenship needs us. And we'll do nothing but help. That's why we have created these working groups that will work team-to-team with their leaders; we don't work from now on, only with the senior officials of the organizations, of the Catalan Health Institute – the most important, which has 80_percent of our country's primary – but directly, team-to-team, with its leaders, obviously, with the directions of that team, with the professionals of that team to help in the organizational changes that that concrete territory needs. And I think this is the main part we need to do; so we managed to reopen most of the local consultancies during the month of September and the last ones in this first of October, so why did the city have it, right? That reference after one bye, right? That's Covid's. And of the messages that some also wanted to donate, and I hope that it wasn't maliciously, to generate this in many municipalities, which are forever tancarian, therefore, these local consultancies. We've always said, the most is people's service and we won't abandon this service to people. I think it's important to make this clear. There have also been major issues, such as the follow-up circuit for cases and contacts. The crisis is sanitary, the crisis is above all public health, it is an epidemic, and therefore we should have a circuit to manage an epidemic with large volumes, which is not what Public Health was accustomed to manage; many diseases of compulsory transmission, many, but not of a volume, nor much less, seeming to have followed this Covid. Certainly, between Dr. Guix – who is also a doctor, certainly – and Dr. Argimon there has been a lot of work, there has been a team, the Covid Unit has been created and I am certainly very happy, not with the incorporation, because I was already part of my team, but Dr. Argimon has also been able to take responsibility, like the secretary of Public Health, and I am able to contribute, grow, with very good criteria and with very good..., so, mà, this information, these first-week wheels – two times a week – to give all the information about the epidemic before citizenship and organize, as a reference of healthcare authority to our country, all the field of public safety, beyond the responsibilities it already has. Therefore, at the beginning of May, we must begin to have enough of this circuit, as we will follow these new cases that we are going to detect, after decontainment. And above all, as we identify contacts, as we will follow, what information we need to give and what circuit we need to establish. And that's why different agents are involved, isn't it? In the first place, Public Health Reinforcement, with all the reinforcements I explained yesterday and which we took from the same Public Health Services, the whole Health Department, other departments of the Generality to help in this structure. Also, in this call-center to follow up on one side... one side, which is the follow-up, only, of these contacts, which is not much less the main work. But this circuit is in constant improvement – and we were able to explain it this week – with the introduction of these texts. When there is a suspected case or a positive case, a text message is sent to the person and says: you can already identify your contacts, apart from giving you all the information about what it means to be positive; when we consider that a person is contact to be able to determine, what preventions you must have from then on: before you know the result, you know a little bit about the result and you know that you are positive... And all these tools that we need to get into our circuit and that help us. So, we're not all the scouts, we made them work for this follow-up of contacts, but we did, mainly, the public health reinforcement, with the primary, introducing these Covid managers to the primary. That, when the user was there because the primary is in charge of case detection, with SMS, with managers now at Public Health and with these school references, for tracing. And we will strengthen that, too, on the very next week, with these managers, also, in public safety, who will help us to do much better than this plot and to go looking for the origin of these positives. So, it's a lot of work, an absolutely alive circuit, which will go better, and that all the tools that we vaginas out at the length of this epidemic we can go through introduced into this circuit. I'm very happy, too, and I share a lot of the speech, right? When they talked about: it's not just a reconstruction, it's a real transformation. In fact, last week I compared to the Health Commission explaining why we were setting up a transformation agenda. Why don't we just say it from the Health Department. Why we share it with other departments of the Generality. Why this expressed the commitment of the Government of the Government of Catalonia before the challenges of the future of the health system. And why we were here leading this transformation agenda. I'm just asking for one thing, in this transformation: let's not always fall for the same mistakes – I wouldn't say so many mistakes, would I? , but in the same concepts – to confuse that when an investment is made in a hospital is because you don't take primary care of it, or you don't take public health policies into account. It's just that it's all necessary. It's just that everything is absolutely necessary. We started this epidemic, with eight beds of reviews per hundred_ thousand inhabitants, and that was under the middle of the European Union. At the same time, we have increased the basic capacity and will maintain it, structurally, to be a little bit above the European average. And, in addition, we prepare ourselves, too, to arrive until twenty-two beds of reviews per hundred-thousand inhabitants, which will be demountable – and we hope that they will follow – and, in addition, we hope that we will not have to use them to manage with multipurpose spaces, which we will also need, of reinforcement, in hospitals. And we haven't stopped investing in it. Why? In the first place, investments have been stalled for many years, and this is very bad for the health care system, not only in infrastructure but also in many equipments and with the ability to introduce technological innovation. And then, then, because we want to adapt to this. And not only that: the high-flow oxygen that we have put in our hospitals, beyond the beds of criticism, that have more complexity in these hospitals, with a superpower infirmary that will be at the side of this to give the best answer. And this is not to the detriment of what we have said was a priority of the legislature, of what we are doing, absolutely now, of what our energies are spending today and our meetings today, on behalf of the Català Health Service, teamed up, to strengthen primary care. It doesn't hurt, we don't fight it. Why do we have to counter one thing with the other? With regard to the professional, which was the other priority of the legislature, very clear. In the first place, I am not absent from the protests that there may be, from the complaints of the rights that the professionals have to claim better, always, I would just miss. So... and a very special recognizance of the figure of the residents. The figure of the residents, who are professional in the formation of a specialty, therefore, are our specialists of the future... Of course, family and community medicine specialists too, which is a specialty, the most important, the most important, the one that grew the most in name, obviously, and where I explained today that we have achieved the historical record of offering specialized training places in our country, this past year. Therefore, a cabdal recognition to the figure of the resident. And I said, too, to the committee and I share it: they were on the front line, so, too, they were part of the group in economic recognition and we couldn't let them or never get past the head. And we also trust, obviously, that with these proposals that have gone and come, proposals that are of the best teachers – this is the first, because it is the basis of the residents in formation – but also remunerative. That's to say, the whole right, so, to claim better pay. And, in the marque we consider that there is a lot of way to run to improve the wages not only of the resident professionals, but of the health professionals in general. But we are in the context that we are, and not only the Government of Catalonia is in the context that it is. The Parliament of Catalonia, like the country, is in the context that we are, and every step we have given, since the last years, we are moving forward in the recovery of working conditions, in better ways, in professional recognition and in building this future of professionals with the planning that it plays, as we have packed into the forum of professional dialogue. With regard to the governance of the system, whether the CatSalut must be a real government or who rules this system of salvation? Actually, we have a different, complex model – which I have said many times – which brings us this, a point of wealth, but which has to be governed and addressed well, above all, with the concepts that I think explain very well and that we share. And I've said it many times: where do the resources come from to guarantee the right to salvation? In the last instance, of the butxaca of the citizens that is guanyan, also, with the effort of every day, of their labors. And, therefore, with this contribution in a solidarity system, according to the need and not according to the contribution of each individual. And I think that this is very important to attend to a system, beyond the provision we have. But this provision has to answer to this origin, it has to answer to this origin with the justice that surrounds it. Therefore, yes, we want to take this governance, the governance of the institutions; of each of these organizations, which do not follow a "pass that I have seen you from meetings, two, three times a year, so, because the managements can present the numbers, approve the assumption, approve the annual accounts and some powerpoint of strategy, but there is actually governance in our organizations, in all of them. Because sometimes it seems that we differ from one another and all are really very important, as much as it is a Catalan Institute of Health – which governs many hospitals at a time, and also 80_percent of primary care, which also has its inter-mig governance and also has its intermediate structures that we also want to be able to have this dialog directly and to be able to direct and govern them according to the departmental strategies – but also other organizations, so that they manage one hospital alone – hospitals for sure, of public ownership – so that the ownership is not public but it is financial, that we serve that we direct and order, and so here we have all control of these public resources. And the whole social and health area that I think we share... there was a lot of dialogue in this Parliament that respects integration, but now integration is no longer... maybe we don't have to talk anymore, we have it here and we have it. And we have it here, in a very clear setting, but also in many others, and in many others that we have to push and position it. Now, in the residences, which is one of the areas that has worried us the most and continues to worry us the most, we have 355 active cases. It's the 0.7_per_cent of the residents, and we can think, it's just a little bit. It's just, by luck, and we're trying to control it as best as possible, but we know that every resident position is a very different risk, also by luck, than we can hold in position in other areas, as can be the school environment. So all the energy we've got in place in this control. How does the virus get into the residencies? Basically for professionals, therefore, allow visits, with maximum security, with everything we want, with the rights of residents and families; but also maintaining this tension, this calm tension, respects the residences. We now have fifty-five residents hospitalized and the situation at the residents of large people is that 92,4_per_cent are green, that we have catalogued them no matter what; 3_per_cent are taron and 4,4 red. That means when he comes in, doesn't it? , the virus in a residence, you hardly have taronja. You can easily... you can have red, which means you actually have a bud between you, as we've seen the last few days. I think this is an important area. We have improved much in the sector, we have the reference residencies, which form part of the network of residencies and function as buffers for a concrete territory. We have spaces alternated with residences, which are social spaces or specific equipment for the relocation of residents. In the first wave we had fourteen centers and 755 places for this. And now we have thirty-four centres and 1,187 seats, precisely in order to be able to sectorize well, to make the relocations. And respect this first one, it's an increase of 52.57_per_cent of that number of places. And, besides, as we were able to approve, so, yesterday, Tuesday, to Government, eighty-nine places for prevention in residential centers and businesses – but basically residential centers, too, is what will take the largest volume – which follows these contingency plans that each of the residents has had to make this study and that we must go, therefore, old. I think it's an indispensable job for Covid, but it really came to be part of this transformation and to stay. With regard to finance, which we have not talked about very much, with this growth now in the primary attention that we have placed on the table, let us move to a capital of 1.612 euros, which is much higher than we have ever had. They are figures that we can take as punctual, but we have to restructure them. We're actually talking a lot about infra-financing, and I've been calling this global alliance again to improve funding. And we'd be happy to have that loyalty that Congresswoman Escarp was talking about, wouldn't we? , above all always demanding it from one band, therefore, that the loyalty hold it when they govern in other administrations with the responsibilities they hold in the other administrations, in this case in the Government of the Spanish State between the PSOE and Podemos. The vital minimum ingredient – the vital minimum ingredient – is essential because the people can also assume this pandemic situation, which has passed a hundred days since the inn on the march, of the 830,000 people only 74,000 people of the office and 16,000 people in the institution have been able to access it; the difference is so great, the lack of management is so great. The state offices here, in this country, tank all three, they are not, they do not answer, neither the INSS nor where to manage the vital minimum ingredient, which is in these very offices, or in many other aspects. The material for the residences, which was so lacking at first and which had been promised by the minister Pablo Iglesias also, in full alarm, which ensured that protection material would arrive to the residences we are still waiting for. The infant care permit, which we said is the only thing we can't be working between Councilman Bargalló..., between the Department of Education and the Department of Health, the only thing we can't do; the rest we've done everything, absolutely everything. And look, there's a lot of casuistic to predict, because the world of education is very broad. A million people who are in the education system today and who are managing them. The only thing we can't control, that's those little babies, younger than twelve years – let's not all of us – so when they're in the house, they need someone who's cured, there's got to be an answer. So, first they thought about it, and then neither that – nor that. We haven't talked many times about the state's funding deficit in sanitation, but we also talked about social services in the 2008-2019 period with €3.648.69_million. The State has never provided the proportional share of the financing it is seeking to apply and deploy the Law of Personal Independence and Dependent Persons: not one year. It continues to finance only the 17_per_cent of the 50_per_cent that surrounds it. This would also please us to assume responsibility, because we assume economic responsibility as the Government of the Generality for that which does not make another administration, which in this case is close to it. The ERTOs, also in August: 150,000 workers were waiting to collect the ERTO. And after all the shows that have come to us respecting these March agreements, these agreements with the Community of Madrid, where we thought they would agree decisions without interfering in the competitions of territories, and always – always – end up sinning of the same. And what we find is that always, in the proposals and in the state assumptions, the military spending of the Spanish Government once again covers, this 2020, an astronomical xifra of 20,000_million euros. We repeat, in the House of the Parliament of Catalonia, that we are a country that defends the sciences of life and salvation, and not the military industry. I was grateful for a few games of words about the socio-vergency of sanitation, and here they were trying to introduce another case as well. So yes, we come from a history that is "socio-vergent in sanitation, where the powers of this country were absolutely divided between the municipal world, the deputies, the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. The construction was done – from the health system –, apart from looking at the man, that this is already evident, as much as the construction of society, with only the eyes of doctors, only of a profession, with the eyes of managers and with the eyes, therefore, of the power that existed at that time to the different administrations. To say that, yes, there is a great difference and that above all there is a project for the health system based on the universality of salvation, based on the territory..., as we have capacity in such a diverse and differentiated territory as can be great cities, metropolitan areas, not just one, in many ways, and territories greatly stretched out from large cities and, therefore, from those health services like hospitals, which must also be served and which will also have power; and this helps us, that we are in the 21st century, that there are many more ways than we have, and that we therefore need to be able to respond to this. Also gender equity. And yes, there are many differences. We bought Reus Hospital. The deputy of the Third Innova UPC. We're done with that whole stage. The Hospital de Reus is of the Generalitat de Catalunya, it is a public company of the Generalitat de Catalunya, like the Hospital de Móra d'Ebre, which was built for the Cat Salut at that time, but it was handed over to management..., the only hospital that we had given up to manage, in this case of a company that was auxiliary and that also managed the same company, and all folded was part of Innova. Reus, Móra d'Ebre, Berga – Berga –, governed by the CUP, an autonomous municipal body, who was responsible for managing a hospital with a higher assumption than that of the same Assembly, company of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Salut Catalunya Central. Accords for the construction of the Trueta, agreements very welcome, I dare say, not only on the part of the territory, but from all over the country. Neither does he see, nor here nor there, nor to a city nor the high, nor a party nor the other, nor do I know what... : agreements, agreements of the future, for the location of the new Trueta. It wouldn't be real anymore if there wasn't an early agreement. Investments in hospitals that some consider more public than others and that I consider as public, as good as Joan XXIII, as Bellvitge, as Vall d'Hebron. Important real investments in these hospitals, which are certain to have been missed by a lot of investment. And governance and transparency, which I was commenting on before, with the Cat Salut, that no, it doesn't have to be a contract dealer or those you're going to call because they're making a decision, but it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, and we have a whole team of people in the department, and also the head of the Català Health Service, with this idea, therefore, of being able to make the Cat Salut, this government, that I think they deserve. I think we've made sure with the priorities of the legislature, and the evidence is the Covid, the primary care, the professionals, obviously, the perspective of gender – that we won't leave it either for Covid or for Covid – and also the prevention and promotion of salvation. This marks our path, which is the project we have for the country, the project we want to develop in these own years, with a view to god, twenty, thirty years, as much as we can in the future, strengthening the state of welfare changing bases and changing benchmarks. Yes, we'll change bases and we'll change benchmarks, because we're working on social needs, and because we want to leave some memories of the past that have also failed the prestige of this public health system. We are here, and this Ple can sort if it contributes to this, we can sort in this chamber if it contributes to this. We're presenting a project. And I'm really glad that some groups are showing up, too, aren't they? , this ability to hear the current moment, to achieve all these agreements and, above all, to put it full of route and to put it on course. I think the full route, the path, the route, we share it with all the professionals of the health system so that they can make their own. That doesn't mean we buy them things or we buy documents, does it? , that many times they say to us "is very good that people make documents, we do not have to deny any document. But we, like the Department of Health and the Government... our position is not to buy documents, but to mark full routes and that everyone felt involved in this full route. I think we're marking the way out of the government. I would like this Ple you serve to mark the path from the Parliament of Catalonia, to find these consensuses that yesterday, therefore, many of the groups have spoken, and to be able to do so I believe that in this way we have always tried to do so from the Health Commission. And I think that Mrs Caula gave it to us yesterday, it was a committee, it is a committee that you can feel good about, that you feel that you are taking steps towards citizenship, that you feel that we are responding to some real needs, we are not responding to party groups, but that you are responding to something as serious as the right of salvation for our citizenship and as important for our future, our welfare state and this country that we are building every day. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.131.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, according to the sequence agreed upon at the Spokesman's Board, we will open a _second round of interventions by parliamentary groups and sub-groups for a maximum of two minutes for the group and five minutes for the sub-group. In the first place, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.132.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Vice President. MPs and MPs... no, you, counselor. In the first place, let me begin, out of deference, by contesting, moreover, the companions of the Health Commission, that you have held the deference, therefore, to be commenting on my speech, and, therefore, by this deference I begin for you. First of all, Mrs. Caula, thank you for your reflections, and especially thank you for spending so much time in your speech to comment, so mine – it's always an honor that they do this. You were wondering that I and my company, Congressman Carrizosa, were talking about Castella, and thinking about why Ciutadans was talking about Castella. I think... I thought, actually, huh? But we probably explained it a little, and I'm doing it now. So look, we did it because the Constellera de Castella, the Constellera de Salut, is from Ciutadans, is Dr. Veronica Casado, is a renowned and prestigious teacher of the Faculty of Valladolid, and who, besides, so – we explained it – when they made her name, which is of the..., well, actually, she's the only one, huh? , methgessa a Espanya that has the recognition of the Wonca, recognition of five stars, like the best methgessa of the world. And, therefore, have the honor of holding a councillor, huh? , to our Government, in this case Castella, with the results that it is getting, therefore, I understand, and understand, that Mr Carrizosa or myself, therefore, to our interventions we take it with pride. In the same way, I thank you very much for talking about my purpose to the Health Committee – I said that I liked this purpose. I imagined that, I don't know, if maybe these past months, maybe years, were lost, the quantity, actually, drawings and proposals that I myself have brought to this committee – actually, I lead them by that – and, also, together with my companions, we have this honor to the Health Committee. Therefore, I have not just heard this lack of your purpose. I think the numbers are there. And, in fact, when I listened to you carefully, I thought a little bit, didn't I? In the speech this one of the "sermon of the mountain," right? , and see the brush on the other's eye and don't see the big one on the other. I'm telling you why you might be able to check tomorrow – or when you're out today, right? – which was your turn to yesterday's intervention. Probably, so, I don't think there's going to be any uncertainty. Just as I think coming to this plenary and talking so much about Madrid... Well, Madrid is magnificent, it's a magnificent city, but well, as you're a Member of Girona, maybe talking about health news, talking about Covid and seeing what's going on, so, probably, huh? I think I should be more focused on it. Also to Mr. Guinó, I... especially, tell him I've always thought about it, huh? , that their interventions are accurate, they are well measured, and I think it brought a lot of value to your debate, and therefore, as I have always said, my admiration for the personal issue, even though I had the feeling that you wanted to make it go away for the big beast. I will answer exactly the question you asked me. You said, "Mr. Carrizosa, if your party, Ciutadans..., and you also addressed me nominally as the Ciutadans spokesman in matters of salvation, if we would defend the same, eh? the health system. Clearly, I suddenly thought: "Mr. Guinó, how many times have you listened to me defending Ciutadans' health program? And so I thought, "Now I don't know the representative of Ciutadans, or maybe you think I don't know... Or you think we're defending something else, with drawings and drawings..., as I said, we defended it. Perhaps he thinks that the hospitalization, when a cross the Hebrew, changes, to the length of Espanya. Is it possible that if we were to be hospitalized in The Faith of Valence things would be worse or different than Catalonia, the Valley of Hebron or other hospitals? Clearly, Mr. Carrizosa was talking about his hospitalization at Sant Pau. Do you think it would be different from the University of Oviedo? Jo, actually, I don't think so. But you were talking about Madrid. Do you really think that Mr. Carrizosa wasn't as well attached to the Iron Gate? I think so, huh? I think so. Well, let's go in, then, on governance issues. I... I liked it that at the place where the education counselor is today, you're the president in office, basically because yesterday we talked about a lot of finance. And he does the same thing Mr. Torra did, huh? : when you finish any current march control session; you always have very different priorities to be at the full monograms of salvation, huh? So, many years ago, to all the presidents we've had, they're always planning activities that are far more important than listening to parliamentary groups, and then showing their disenfranchisement. But, Fi, that's what's there. Mrs. Budo, thank you, at least, for being here. I trusted that after what I told him – and I suppose they told him that I told him that I accused him directly of rewriting the story, especially of what you and I and other companies were dealing with late March 10th in the Generalitat – I thought you'd be back today. What better opportunity, then, to get out and defend the health system, and especially when there is a deputy who directly asks you and that you, moreover, have the luck of being able to open a debate as long as you want, because you would have time. In fact, as the debate goes on, so I would ask you..., as you said some questions that I said here myself that I wasn't sure, that you were rewriting the story, I think it would be okay, so take it back and that we can have this parliamentary debate, this debate that you often say you want after the time of truth or the president in office or you are taking advantage of it. I enter directly, so, well, in some of the questions. Benvolguda consellera, always questions my words. Actually, it's already a costume. That is to say, what Mr. Soler says you always question. Well, I know I know some of those who sing the truth to you, those who surely their trusted partners don't get to say, but in any case I'm afraid they're news, that you deny and deny me, and always say that I'm not sure with my appreciation and judgment. But, curiously, after they're out of place, and it looks like they're falling from the sky, these waves. And they're leaving you all out there, and you're still saying that I don't really describe the reality. I don't know, huh? Exactly, on his visits to the hospital or health center, with whom he contacts, with whom he talks about the waiting list; I don't know how many people he talks about calling and not answering the phone; I don't know, well, if they talk to the same companies I described yesterday that they were working with bumps of scams, actually. I can deny other things, I could do politics as I like to do with other things, but I can deny the obviouss, so I just didn't hear it. But especially because I was asking you for some self-criticism, and you didn't make people out of it today. I thought, "Well, after I said that, I'm sure the counselor will come out tomorrow and... Home, a little, after what I said. But, if you want, don't look at Ciutadans, look at the PSC, look at the Popular Party, look at the CUP, look at the commons, that there are other formations, by luck, in this Parliament, it's a cross-parliament; it's that we've all told you the same. But you don't have any self-criticism. I say, really, that I don't understand you; with which the workers are painting, with which the patients are painting. Taking advantage of the fact that you can rise again – I insist on it, I want you to do so by Mrs. Budo, as we speak – now I am also telling you. I have a very specific question, Counselor. You're talking a lot about finance. There is a company, which is said NothingAD; you know, that advertising agency that had forgiven a bill of eighty_ thousand euros for the theme of '1 October. After that, this company won 8,2_million euros in public contests, contests with money from everyone, and, therefore, went from forgiving eighty_million euros to winning 8,2_million euros. Well, now we know that you have given him an emergency contract of EUR 550,000 for the online coronavirus campaign and for social networks. I repeat: 550,000 euros, more than a million dollars. And that hurts the Health Department. My question is very concrete. I think it requires you to come back and show off, huh? , of this parliamentarianism that you so long as you're on radio, but not when you tank the Parliament or when you have the occasion to debate. Is that right, Counselor? Have you given half a million euros to this company? Is the favor coming back with money from all the Catalans? Do you know exactly what you could do with half a million euros? Are they going through this black hole in the process? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We've also met... if you say no, then I wish, counsel, that I would come back and have a fantastic debate of salvation that is important. We have just learned that you open another application for the coronavirus theme, advise, another application. Why? Why didn't Spain do it well, or why is it devoting money to making duplicates? Clearly, then Mr. Carrizosa will come here, tell him that you have duplicates and you will deny it. So another obviousity. He will advise, yesterday you, with skirmishes that collected the camera, denied the sleeping times on the street of Lleida. I've been thinking, haven't I? "You told the President in office, you told Mrs Budó, you told the Councillor. And your gesture says no. Counselor, how come you don't contest it? Why did your government allow you to keep people sleeping in the street without doing anything, in full agony of Lleida? MPs and MPs, we're talking about the future. I think we're going to continue selling with a debate, if you don't get up and make me the line, I think...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.133.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.134.0	Yeah, I end up president. That I think these questions... that I need to clarify in an important, long, dense, in-depth debate and that it takes as much time as possible to clarify the situation in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of the MP Assumpta Escarp, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.136.0	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, you're not a doctor, you're a good few, you're a doctor or a doctor, you're a good few. We are not in a specific plethora to speak..., we are in a specific plethora to speak of salvation, of the pandemic and of the future of the health system, a plethora that was asked by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and that in yesterday's session held a common denominator, which salvation is very important as not to make it a partisan or a lanceive weapon. We talked about finding consensus in this debate, that they wanted to be and purpose. Then, interventions, and today itself..., good words are over; it has to be because some interventions did not please, because the groups that support the government had to answer. But from here on, I would like to talk about intervention by the government. Yesterday three members of the Government intervened, and not because they had different things to say, or concrete things, or that they could not tell us the Councillor of Salvation, who made an extensive report, but who responded to a political pact for the management of this transition until the elections; a pact that made it necessary for Mr. Aragonese, Mrs. Budo and then Mrs. Vergés, to intervene. And, for what it seems, more advisers would have to intervene, but I suppose that, in order not to break the balance, therefore, of the document that you, between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra, have signed, did not do so. Mrs. Budó praised President Torra's task and Mr. Aragonese explained to us his own management of the resources; he managed about which we have requested a clear and detailed audit, above all to know the final balance of the payment to the private, or why 1,600_millions of outstanding invoices were paid for the year 2019 with Covid funds. And, you know, also, why we paid for TV3 with Covid funds. It would also be worth knowing. That said, the three interventions of the government also had a common denominator: self-criticism. And it's not a political demity to be self-critical, and more so when we're talking about an unknown global pandemic that's working with proof-error. We've all said it. We should not all learn from your self-criticism, because you have known the management and therefore know where it fails and where it fails. We could also advance on the basis of your self-criticism, but the truth is that we have not seen any self-criticism today or today. On the contrary, it's like a need to put more on it, to the actions it's a fan. But not content with the government's interventions, those of the groups that support the government, so they just ended up. Nor did they bring anything more than answering the opposition group, it must be said, in perfect order and using any argument as far as possible from the realm of salvation. That's a big deal. In fact, there were absences in full specifics, they spoke of everything... Yes, as long as the claim that salvation is the first, clearly contradicted with the subsequent contents. Everyone talked about Madrid, and the councilwoman also talked a lot about Madrid. But if you vote with them! I don't understand why this constant obsession. Listen, the dice in Madrid are painful. The Community of Madrid acted late. But it is that the data of Catalonia, along with those of Madrid – and I recognize that – are not good either, and in many cases we have also acted late. In Hebrew, we go a week late, because it was known and it was an outbreak located in a company. We knew where these workers lived; 270 workers divided into three populations. They're going a week late. So, I don't know if I ever say it... a certain self-criticism, but, above all, a certain humility, because we should all apply it. The counselor, too, yesterday and today, makes a defense of the system, basically saying: "The public will. I note this "public with capital letters. But he hasn't explained to us some service awards that might have to be public and not outsourced. Neither has he explained to us why they have not paid the extraordinary remuneration to those subcontracted companies, which are basically clean, and these workers have not paid it. He didn't tell us why we're the autonomous community that paid the most to the private for Covid's attention. If a public service is claimed, let's give it the public character. Why don't we approach public health transportation? Why don't we go through some of the other auctions? She also announced us, the councilwoman, the six hundred trackers. But I've already made a deal with myself; I don't know if it's us, if they're part of the 1,900 that were announced or the nine hundred that could fit into Ferroser's contract. When we talk about transparency, I mean not just deliver data – and I recognize that they are very well those who are open, very well – but not confused. It's not about adding and subtracting. It's about knowing how many, when and where. That's what we want. I didn't make myself clear today with Covid managers and public health managers. And the same goes for the names of professionals who need to reinforce primary care. Yesterday we said it, both Mrs Ribas and myself: the reinforcement plan speaks of some data. You, here in the House, answer a question I think from Mrs Ribas, you said another number. In the presuppost, they announced 1,400. And what I'm going to ask is the same thing: how many, when and where. Or it turns out that all the reinforcement of this primary is the 0.8 of meth or the 0.58 of infirmary that comes out in the primary care teams applying their plan. He's talking about the reinforcement of the city hall again today. Let's see if it's true that consultants and CAPs are re-opening, that they see the winter, that they see the flu, that they're not reopened and that at the door they don't tell when they're reopened, and that every territorial network gets as plastered as it can. Yesterday, you introduced the ContactCovid app – and today on Telegram's Salute channel you say again – in clear competition with the Radar Covid app, even though they say it's complementary. Listen, the Radar Covid app is not an invention of the Spanish State; it is a European project with national application. And you skipped it. They're talking about... I'm calm – I told them already –; they'll send me a text message, and I've had enough peace of mind. I also heard that you wanted to talk about residences. But, look, tell Mr. Aragones if they'll pay the fees that were approved in a decree here, in this House, do a_me, because, if not, today, they'll give us the residences themselves..., they won't be able to pay the names this month, because they haven't paid the corresponding fees. You came back to say..., and you talked about the joints. Miri, I will only give you a given, and I take advantage of the fact that Mr. Bargalló is there. The last complaint of the assemblies: they learn of the cases of quarantine or positius for the WhatsApps of the pairs, because the school manager to the last he informs is the Assembly. Presidents, councillors, help them. I'm in formation, I'm in recognizance. And I changed the negotiators. It's far from the resolution. And you know that. If you're talking about me, match the difference between the different health centres. You know that the Clinic pays four hundred euros more than Vall d'Hebron. Equipari 'ls. Because this is one of his main demands. Just like..., take care of the people of the primary and especially the people of the sanitary transport, who are well abandoned. Today, Mr Vergés, he could not be, we abandoned salvation and fell again into the toilets, and in these toilets you have made a repudiation to the part of the history of the health system that he does not like; neither do I. Too bad you haven't repudiated this part of the history of the health system in which you have participated in supporting or participating in governments that have retaliated. The governments of the great detail of the Lord But and of the Lord Boi Ruiz were supported for you. If we are going to reject history, we are going to reject it all; if we are going to build a new system, we are going to build it again, we are going to build it with consensus, which is what we were talking about, and we are going to build it with agreement. But, really, this selective amnesia about its participation in the retail, sometimes, the truth is unworthy. I will remind you of a given: 27_per_cent less have invested in health care spending in the past decade. Please, they're making themselves look good. I think we've lost another opportunity today to talk about health, pandemic, and the system. Today, the president of my group has once again called for a health pact, for building consensus and for building complicity from the iniciators, and not working on the basis of adherence. But you like adherence better than opinions. It must not be his agenda, Counselor, it must be the real opportunity for transformation, with a professional pact, with a social pact, with a political pact, and also with a government pact. But it's that you've confided in him. And I ended up, and I ended up with something that I had a hard time thinking about whether or not I was giving it; two. One: Leialty, Mrs Vergés, is a double-directed theme and you only have one. But I don't want to stop saying one thing, which is that you made a demand today, and yesterday too, from the perspective of gender in salvation, and I congratulate him. If not, in so-called victim, of non-existence. But among other things, your party has made a very strong claim to feminism. They ask them, in this line, and they ask them in truth, with all sincerity, much more force in those members or former members of the government who have broken this principle that we all share, because it is not a matter of words or protocols, it is a matter of actions and of being very consistent with what we say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of Deputy Marta Ribas, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.138.0	Counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, actually this debate has a point of a little unreality, in these circumstances. In a debate where what is expected is that we urge the government to take action, to undertake new initiatives, to do so with a government in function, so, it is strange, it is to regret, in reality, the circumstances that have brought us so far here, and also to regret that this situation will widen five or six months, at least. And that's certainly the worst thing we can do right now to the health system in Catalonia, and to what we need to address this health emergency. I had to tell you. In any case, we are not, in fact, making substantive reflections and taking advantage of this debate in order to bring about changes that will surely take place in our own legislature, but also actions that will have to be put in place in order to be able to face these changes. And the dilemma is for them to set up today clearly: in our opinion it is if this key moment is to take advantage of it because the health system has a continuity of model or a transformation with a structural change. Our bet is obviously of transformation, of a system that originated with the LOSC, with the Law of Health Order, and gradually became perverted, at the length of the years, both the interpretation of the LOSC as clearly its application, which is exhausted, to go towards a true national system of salvation, which was the one that was intended. This is a big question that we have to start, in our own country, in this next legislature, and that hasn't happened in all these years. In fact, it has taken place if in any case contrary to what we believe we should have been. And this has not been done, – for so much that we are now making speeches of better and, above all, of change and transformation –, it has not been done with the facts, there has not been any in this sense, in the later years, nor in the later five years in which you, the Republican Left, have been carrying the councillorship of Salvation, nor in the earlier years, in which you are supporting the Government of Artur More, nor in the possible continuity of political alliances that the Republican Left is posing. And that makes us suspicious of a real transformational will when it is expressed in this chamber. The opportunity for transformation will not materialise or profit with great words, but with facts. And, therefore, neither do we need examples of what we have recently had. There is no way to pay for health care and to agree on a discriminatory pay for categories. It cannot be filled with public and public system mouths and pay €43.000 per Covid patient to be treated at a private hospital ICU, it is the community that has paid the most in all Spain. It is not possible to be crying out to the public, but that, in questions as phoneous as the current pandemic, there are externalisations and there are no new ones, there is no 061 that already existed and is proving that it is not working well, there are no new ones as has been the case with Ferroser and the Scout Service. They talk a lot about public system, but they don't question – and they have done it again, counselor, today – a system that is public financing but where there are many centers with a lifetime of work. He doesn't question that. We're talking about hospitals, but we're especially talking about socio-sanitary people, and we're talking about a lot of outsourced services in the past few years, with jobs, paid for our public health system. And that has to change. And so, when we do change and go to the bottom of the issue, we talk about it, and it's not by way of persecuting the private commercial sector, just because the interests and objectives of those who have work and public interest are opposed and opposed. The private pays and rewards their professionals for caring for the disease, by number of interventions, for technology, for visits... It's a system that interests that there are illnesses. In fact, the public system is also paying for it, in this sense; it pays for services done. And, therefore, it also encourages this. Public interest is exactly the opposite, is to avoid malalty, is to guarantee the salvation of the people. As you anticipate, more early attention, better; because it's less spent on the system and because it's better for everyone, and for the citizenry to get the money they pay to the public health system. That is why it is more primary, more expenditure on public and community health. They're interested and counterposed. Therefore, the transformation has to respond to this. That all public money responds to public interest, with public control, and focusses on what is of common interest, and cannot be in the interests of private individuals with a life span. That is why we also advocate that we move from words to facts in the transformation of the primary care system, because we have a "hospital-centric" system, and this does not mean that we do not want investments in hospitals, she advises. We want strong, powerful hospitals that can give answers to what hospitals have to give answers to. We want more muscle hospitals, but with a lot less weight than they have right now. There are many servants who are in hospitals that do not need to be in hospitals, who surely are more effective than in primary school. There are a lot of outsiders who are taking them to hospitals that shouldn't be there. And there's also a lot of gross inefficiencies to solve in hospitals. The primary care is that it knows the need for salvation of its territory, that it has to mark the pattern and that it has to say which hospital support is needed, that it has to participate in the waiting lists, the management of the waiting lists, the complementary tests. The system isn't up there, it's up there in the hospital. The Primary Care Transformation Enhancement Plan that they have approved as the Government is clearly insufficient. It does not address a good part of these things that I have told you, and, moreover, the facts that are already being applied to reinforce the primary are still more insufficient. And I would like to reiterate the clear question asked by Mrs Escarp: how many when and where are these reinforcements for the primary school? A plan of better working conditions, especially in primary school, is essential to attract talent. We want the best professionals. In our public health system in general and especially in the primary, we have a deficiency in this issue. The councillor said today that primary education is 21_percent of health care expenditure. We need to reach at least 25_per_cent to follow European parameters. How many ambulances, by the way, are still closed or with reduced hours, will you advise? As long as he's been back in the past, he's been a part of it. How many more times are reduced? Two brief points and I make them refer to another topic for us too claus. The MIRs. Make sure it's negotiated like lime. This issue needs to be resolved. Sit down from the department with them, and change the negotiators if I fall. They've called in five more days. And respect the residences: they have the care staff without being able to charge yet the extraordinary Covid pay for bureaucratic problems that they are posing in order to be able to make this charge with the system that was created. Moreover, make sure that these external charges for Covid expenses which were approved by decree and validated in Parliament are covered. And we will not lose sight of the fact that, in order to improve the salvation of Catalans and Catalans, what is most important is to reduce social inequalities, and the Covid crisis has still put more of a manifesto on us. The social class marks a lot of what affect you also have in a pandemic. And his government and his party, Republican Left, is also a good part of these competitions, and it is not doing, nor has it done in five years to bear these responsibilities in the government, courageous policies and transformators to end the extreme poor. No real novelty in guaranteed citizenship income. At present, with the circumstances of the Covid crisis and what it sees us from then on, it gives answer to that failure that there was already response from the guaranteed income of citizenship until now and what it sees us from now on. So, look, the vital minimum ingredient isn't working as hot, but I think you're not the best at criticizing the vital minimum ingredient given the circumstances of what's going on with the guaranteed citizenship income. Or with the non-political approach to the poor child in Catalonia. Last theme for us also important. Obviously, I need to talk about money for the whole thing. And that means more resources, and that means a different economic policy from what has been done over the past two years in Catalonia and Spain, and that means just and progressive taxation, like that of the most advanced countries in Europe, if not, there is no strong public safety system or strong public responsibility. We are below the European Union in public expenditure, five or six points, because we are below in similar percentages in tax receipts, and this goes for Junts for Catalonia, which did not want to increase the inheritance tax for higher returns on assumptions, and goes for the People's Party and for Citizens, which also defend these same policies. For Ciutadans, who is certainly talking about social-democratic health policies, but wants a neoliberal fiscal policy. No, look, this doesn't add up. But also for Esquerra and for socialists, who are often very porcupines when we embark on fiscal policies in Catalonia or the State. And yes, we also need a new funding model. The State manages a great deal of resources for the skills it has, and most social skills are managed by the communities. We have a new financing system, and you have left the empty chair in the negotiation of the financing system in Catalonia. What's his plan for a better funding system in Catalonia? Look, we need to take advantage of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.139.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.140.0	... the current – I finish – extraordinary funds, the spending margin that we will have for the coming year; we are undergoing progressive fiscal reforms; we are undergoing a new system of autonomous financing, but all folded in alignment into real, structural transformation, and not only better for the continuity of the same system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.141.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.142.0	Counselor, you said hours to prepare the answer, roughly, and we gave it this because we could understand that in the dynamics of a commission much more cost giving answer to many questions, but we did it, as a subgroup, basically five groups of questions. And we want to insist on this idea, which you said hours ago. First big question we asked him: what makes this department different from the'socio-virgency', with all the time in the world to prepare the answer. You speak to us and situate the "health socio-vergence" as patriarchy and as socialist counter-power towards fatigued pujolism, but it is also another thing, the "health socio-vergence", which is the intervention of private management in public health. And what is, in fact, the only answer that has given us all the questions we have asked. And it sets us as the Hospital de Reus, for example, to compare socio-vergency. Look, with all the lines, we rescued a hospital that was failing; this is more socio-vergency. But I'll explain something else to you, which I don't know that you know much better than I do. In the hospital of Reus, inside, there is a company, there is a company, CMQ, a private company that provides private healthcare in a public space. Counselor, you're in favor, right? What are we rescuing with public money a hospital and that there is a private company that, among a public space, does private sanitation? Do you agree or do you disagree? Because if this is the only difference you have with healthcare socio-vergency, you don't, on the other hand, are deepening the model. Second question, which for us was phonetic: what is the cost of a visit, the first pediatric visit of the public network in a hospital that is managed in a private way? He said hours later we still don't know what the cost is. And we don't know, and we have two theories because we don't know. The first one, because maybe no one knows, that's the problem we have, and the second one, because we did a question, which was: and the same visit, now that they do it non-presentially, what is its cost? And surely they can't give the answer because it's serious – and here we don't have the certainty and so we say – because they cover the same thing when they make the visit now, when it's less work. Among other things, even so, because they ended up speeding up the waiting list they had when they had this reality. It's a scientific fact that I give him, this reality. And, therefore, absolute opacity when we still don't know what the cost of a first visit is when it is a hospital of public ownership, but of private management. We also asked him about the two decrees, I already wanted to talk about "ghost decrees, which announce the reduction of waiting lists in two moments, accompanied by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, which gives him more first thought so that he can justify, and that today we do not have. October 2018, the first announcement; December 2019, the second announcement. We don't have it. And you know that we have characterized you that for us waiting lists are not a managed management tool, they are patiently humane, waiting lists. And, therefore, it seems to us that it is not a waste that in the same legislature we two times announce a decree of lists of hope that has not existed; two decrees of lists of hope. Third block of questions. We give him an expert document that if he's not ours, that if he's ours, that if he's ours, but we'll see. So what are you doing with this document? And we gave him a literal reading of what the document says. And now we ask him, more directly yet: are you in favour of public health policies, public health, involving private companies? That, at the same level that you are, you will advise, private businesses are, are you in favor or not? Are you in favour of primary subcontracts or contracts? Which means it's privatitzi part of the management. I answered, Counselor, that's what we're asking. We will do it as a sub-group of resolution proposals with proposals, but there is one that we have already made yesterday: the calendars will not come out of the no-res. And, in a crisis situation like the present, we point out big fortunes and big businesses, which charge more than sixty thousand euros in annual admissions, which I pay more. We, a clear path. It may or may not please, but it is clear. Are you in favour or are you not in favour? Will he... will he give us an answer? And the last one, to end. We think that we do not find the solution of the situation of public health in its resolution of this department and less of this government and, therefore, we do want to go to find solutions and the solution, by luck, we find it in an exercise, that it is the one of demand and vagueness, with the IRMs who give us a lesson as professional, but also as workers and workers who fight for their rights and, therefore, must pose themselves to the head of this negotiation. Do not say that there is a part of the employer that already represents the department, that is certain, and also to the workers and workers of the health transport, that we obviously ask that it be internalized, but at least until it is internalized, labor guarantees. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And the last, the meths and the meths, again, a vague. The only thing that remains for us, of course, is to call for a great mobilization of society to defend public health, which will be the only way through which we will win rights, because from this government, we no longer expect anything.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.144.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, counselors. I had the feeling this morning that we were almost, this morning, and yesterday also with interventions, especially from the Republican Left, that we were almost in a control session of the Government of Spain. Together for Catalonia he didn't do it, I guess they must have already independentd from the Republican Left, huh? And today there is also a species of control session added to the Madrid Assembly, isn't there? So, miri, on behalf of the Government of Spain has already received the answer, on behalf of the representative of the Government of Spain. I am not in the mood to do the response of the Madrid Assembly, because the control session, the control that we are doing in this debate is the Government of the Generality, it is the performance of the Government of the Generality and it is the Catalans who suffer. Therefore, if they want to talk about Madrid, we talk about it, but in another place that is not this, that has another function. And while you were talking about these things in Madrid, you told us a little bit of primary attention, but you left us with a lot of questions, a lot of questions. I'm telling you now, for the part of it, to the MP of the UPC that I also have a list of questions that you haven't given us an answer, have you? For example, you haven't given us an answer to the problem of 061, we think it exists and it's obvious, right? And which is an important element of the system, it is an important element especially at a time when the communication of the citizenry, on an important part of the citizenry in the health system is carried out by telephone and a part of it is carried out through the 061; and on the measure that the 061 trunk by certain decisions, man, we would like to know what measures have been taken to prevent this from happening. Overall, in relation to the primary, I think we all agree. We've agreed not just now, we've agreed with all our differences and with all our materials that are needed. We now coincide and coincide before the pandemic in which an important bet for primary care, which had weakened very much as a result of the crisis situation and the retailing, is coming. All right, yeah, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. So this, which is where all the groups agree, turns out that the government doesn't make the impression that it also coincides with this, as at least, because of the facts. Because of the words, perhaps, but because of the fetuses, no. The reinforcement plan: they said it, I said it, I repeat it: poor and questioned for the sector. But we see more things. Waiting lists, not a word, not a date since the month of May, not a date, and it's important. Measures, measures to recover. I fixed what we're telling you. We are no longer saying: "Measures to reduce waiting lists in relation to the generation. We're not asking him for this because they know it's impossible. We are asking for measures to ensure that ordinary activity is recovered to ensure that waiting lists are not filled. And then, then, measures to recover the activity that could not be achieved during the pandemic. Just 'cause it's not one... we're not asking to solve the list problem tomorrow. No, we are asking for measures to deal with the situation in which we find ourselves. Yes, debate on the transformation or strengthening of the health system. Very well, but from the pandemic, and before we could not have thought of that, when we all talked about the need to strengthen the health system? And yes, it's starting to move things from the pandemic. It seems that the pandemic, like at least, has served that purpose. Too bad the government's running out of their jobs pretty soon, isn't it? Presuppost, underfunding. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Yes, we already agree, but as we talk about external infra-financing, we also talk about internal infra-financing, and with that they don't need anyone, the government can do it alone, reorder the government's priorities and allocate more resources to sanitation. Pharmaceuticals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.145.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.146.0	I'm done. Pharmacies: Not a word, counselor. Radar Covid, paying for residences, extra costs, since July without paying, etcetera. I don't have any more time, do I? But what has become clear to me, Counselor, is that this government is not able to face the challenges of sanitation or public salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. Member Gemma Espigares of the Republican Parliamentary Group continues to have the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.148.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies. Look, we've been talking about building bridges before, and I'm starting to talk about a part that you probably know a little, which is that the Health Committee doesn't know if we've been able to quantify it, but practically 95% of the agreements we've made for unanimity with the resolution proposals. And I'm saying this because I think we've been able to hear a lot of things, probably more concrete than modeling, because we've talked a little bit about the background, about the transformation, about what Congresswoman Ribas said, about entering the transformation that the health system needs, but it's true that at the time of talking about very concrete things from day to day, we've been able to agree. So, when I hear about building bridges, they'll understand that coming from the health sector, so, that's what I understand, that we're useful to people and we've come to do. Yes, it's true that he has a trap because we're talking about building bridges, but they're already laying dynamite in one of the cantons to see that it doesn't work, so I also understand that the electoral scenario, so it's complicated to generate these consensuses that keep us going. We'll do our best to leave the foundations there, and why else we want to keep leading. We want to lead this transformation we need. I think there's a point to what Congresswoman Escarp said today that's important. There was little self-criticism. I think self-criticism is essential to everything, and so is politics, and precisely it's a question of perceptions, because I have the perception that there is a lot. For example, with the theme of Segria – and we discussed it here – there has been much from the territory to the proper government. The difference is whether we use this self-criticism as the trigger weapon in an electoral campaign or in a hemicicle, or this self-criticism and criticism that we can make all groups use it in the form of learnings, in the form of proposals, in the form of better. If that's what I'm saying, I think we'll all agree, because I understand that's what people are asking us to do, too. Therefore, in this sense, some proposals that we will present as motions for resolutions in two ways. In the first, in the immediate – and here we fully agree on what we have already approved at the general policy debate, what we have already approved at the monogram ple of Covid, which President Torra asked for, and what we have agreed in this legislature: to strengthen public salvation, to strengthen primary attention, which as a slogan is very good, but we have to translate what that means. And in this sense, there are plenty of pieces, which is also what we can do with the current funding, and this transformation. And that's true that this approach is bigger than the day-to-day approach. But I'm also unbureaucratizing, and I'm sure all the Health Commission spokespersons are in constant contact with nursing directors, with managers, and what they're telling us is that there's a lot of the care time he spends doing bureaucratic tasks. And that's why it's essential that today's councilwoman Vergés told Covid managers, because these new roles must allow us each to specialise and make the task that actually holds us. And, therefore, move away from the typical meth and infirmary that we have had in the health care system and introduce these new roles. This also means talking about 'physios, and nutritionists, and these managers and health workers. Therefore, address all this aspect, but also all the working conditions. And it is true that it is a legislature in which there have been better, insufficient, that we are still working and that we can again approach finance to be able to solve it, but also with research, also with the strength of the..., or in addressing the social inequalities that we have, and the Covid-19 has affected different women and men, despite the fact that the negators are tending to cover the eyes; it is true and seen in all the countries because the conditions in which we live are carried. So, to address these issues, also transparency, and to turn back what Mrs Escarp said, that these reports that the Health Department is doing are very complete, and that we are more likely to be able to contribute to making them understandable. The first time anyone spoke... that some epidemiologist or epidemiologist spoke of the Rt, the majority of the population didn't know what it was, or a PCR. So we translate this to make this transfer understandable to society. That's in the air. And in the future project for these own months, I understand that the vice president has spoken, that the councillor has spoken, that we have, like at least, three times ahead: this advance to the Covid-19, explaining all this, but also the recovery of all the activities of the health system that we have updated, and in this the managers and health managers are very – very – clear; if we don't start doing the scribbles – and someone said it yesterday, we will start having patients who arrive much worse at the CAP. But above all it is essential – and that is why the monogram ple, I understand – the transformation of the system. And I'm not two, I'm sorry. The first, which Mrs Ribas shares, to go from this "hospital centre", to talk about the fact that it is all hospitals, to put the person in the centre and that the resources are the ones that go there, with primary attention as at the front door; we share it. In addition: that we have brave governments, and that I trust in the Vergés Councillor, that we bet on prevention, that we bet on changing life styles, and that we don't have to wait for the person to get to the hospital when we can practically do nothing about it. Therefore, place these two initial elements to talk about the transformation as we call it. I go into two details, or one thing: we are aware of the social and sectoral consensus that there is in the health field in all those better ones that fall. Therefore, it remains for the Members and Members of this House to work hard, and for the Government to translate this social and sectoral consensus into a political consensus. But we are also very conscious, and that is why we also presented – and we will do it again today – a proposal for a resolution on infra-financing. If we really want to discuss which model we want and we don't have the resources to do it, and yesterday Congressman Guino was quantifying..., in fact, he said: "We didn't do it together for Catalonia, we didn't do it by the government, we've made experts in the economic field, who have quantified these 5,000_million euros that we needed before the Covid-19; therefore, structural foundations without which it is impossible to talk about it. I enter three elements that have been placed, without wanting or trying to pass over the cockroach, because I think it's gone; but there are three elements that I want to tell you. The first one, because Congressman Soler was talking about how the government seemed to fit in this year that there were times when he slept in front of his house in Lleida. What we denied today is not that it happened, what we denied is that the government gave up this year. The government has been aware of it for many years, and so has Lleida many years ago that we ask there to be a hostel for time, which the PSC has never wanted to build. I could stay a long time with the toilets and know that we have often discussed; I stay and apply what I asked before, and I go to the proposal: we are still aware of the situation there, that this year, so I think that the country's conjunction is and we propose this hotel, we propose to address insecurity, because in the end criminalizing the agricultural sector and criminalizing time is not the solution. The solution is to deal with the problem, to deal with it with the funding that it does and, above all, to move forward. Also with the lost decade that Mrs Escarp was talking about and the assumptions that consolidated the details, which said that Esquerra had followed. The assumptions that consolidated the details know that they were between convergents and the PP, but despite that I will explain to you what has done these five years left in this lost decade that you said, and it is paying your bills, paying what you, the tripartite, decided. We're still paying hospital bills, and so on and so forth. On the subject of feminism, I don't think it's the approach today, but he knows perfectly well what society and political organizations are about. I think that this is worth the common front, and I recommend that you read the interview made by Congresswoman Sans, of the Republican Group, and said: "Before it was a joke of bad taste, now it is not tolerable. Therefore, if we have a common front, all women, in a transversal way, are able to bring out all the rapes that there is and to clarify it. I'm done. We are very aware of this social consensus, and that is why we want to translate this social consensus into a political consensus, to strengthen the public health system, to advance not with the absorption of the residential system, but with the actual integration of this system, with prevention, to continue to improve these working conditions that the group of Members were talking about and to address governance; if we do not talk about the governance of the health system, we will not make this transformation of truth. So, Esquerra, the own six-months– and that's what I understand is that we're moving to the Vergés Consteller –, we're asking that they're useful to the people, that they're still running this anticipatory on a day-to-day basis, on the whole Covid-19 issue, but also that they're facing the whole planning of the health system they're coming into, and we're still working on it because this national pact, or this alliance that you said and that we're going to be able to situate the health system for the next thirty years, we're already starting to put the fonaments there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.149.0	[[Thank you. (Some applause.) Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, there is now the word of Congressman Lluís Guinó, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.211.0	Thank you, Vice President, counselors... Leave 'em a warning, which basically consists in telling them that I will speak strictly of salvation. It is easy to enter the political toilet when the situation from a citizen's point of view does not need precisely that in the Parliament of Catalonia there are, in a way, interventions that have more to do with the strictly political conflict than with the resolution of the problems that the country has today. Therefore, I will try to be as objective as possible in this sense, and then, at the end of the day, I will make some intervention with regard to the interventions that have been made. There is an objective, general, absolutely accepted observation for everyone that the Catalonian health system suffers from an endemic, historical underfunding... all the adjectives you want to pose. But to solve this endemic problem there is a lot of direct participation in Comú Podemos, for example. And I've seen that in the end it seems that the resolution of this endemic problem at the financing level continues to push Catalan taxes another time. The endemic, historical problem of the system will not be solved by charging more taxes to Catalans, it will not be solved in this way, and you know it. And it will not be solved either – and he insisted today – by taking advantage of the extraordinary Covid fund to solve a problem that is not conjunctural but is strategic. Therefore, the strategic problems – and we all know this practically – are resolved with decisions and proposals that have a strategic impact, not with questions that have to do with the increase of taxes in concrete form at a given time or with Covid funds, that, I insist, are extraordinary and that they resolve a very specific issue, and that sometimes the Department of Economy and the Government of the Generality should have much more availability of treasury precisely to resolve them in an immediate way; such a time would not produce any of the complaints that have been made here, in some interventions, respect to be more or less available to them if certain changes or changes are to be made in the pre-departments. It is to say, if the problem is that the economic adviser, in order to pay the expense deserved as a consequence of the Covid, must do so with changes in the assumptions of their departments, if this is the problem; if what should have arrived in an effective way are the resources of the State, and should have resolved, I insist, the endemic problem of financing. And there has been reference before: it is not possible to talk about solving this problem if it is not about the State or about Madrid, and not about Madrid city. We spoke, Mr Soler, yesterday, of Madrid Autonomous Community, and we talked about the influence you have on the Government of the Autonomous Community. I am pleased that the Councillor of Castella and Lleó has an exceptional preparation. So those who precisely defend meritoracy in politics, so that precisely those who defend that the best are doing politics from a point of view of preparation, and that people have a direct link between the department they lead and the preparation of what a disposition or can put to public interest. But he was talking to them about the autonomous community. And while the situation in Catalonia at this time, as Dr. Argimon says, is stable, but there is a certain tension – that there is and will be and will be – it is also true that there are different ways of doing things. It's not that the Covid has, somehow, geographic knowledge or border knowledge between territories. No, no, that's for sure not. What I'm saying is there are different ways to deal with Covid's problem on the part of governments. And it is obvious that the Autonomous Community of Madrid, not the city of Madrid alone, has problems. And we're the ones who exactly... And yesterday I said respect the question you have with Mr Carrizosa and his personal situation: such a time, if you explain it to the Government of the Autonomous Community that in Catalonia it is in a different way, such a time it is resolved more quickly. And these problems that we have today, which are serious, are much better solved. My comment was in this dynamic. And another question that interests the citizenry and is important: how do we face the second or, somehow, the expansion or the continuation of the second Covid? It seems obvious to me that we find ourselves in a situation – and the government is not the most responsible and the most exponent – that the management of the first wave cannot be taught. Or, to manage the Covid..., there were no planned manuals to manage it or to plan it; to manage the Covid has obviously taken on, unfortunately, a learning that the Government, from our perspective, has done more than correctly, and above all in a complex and complicated economic situation, such as is, in general, the situation of the finances of the Government of Catalonia, which is not of this nature but rather that it is, I insist, a problem that has not been solved until now, and that it would be better for political parties to make an effort one day or more effective when the Government of Catalonia makes more investments, to resolve more quickly the problems, to manage much better, and to do more effectively, that the political parties that in some way are demanding that the Government of Catalonia make more investments, if they are finally, that the government is ultimately, that they are going beyond the resources of the government. At that time, such a time, when this is so, they can accept, perhaps in a more objective and more sincere way, some of the toilets that you do at the level of management by the Government of Catalonia. Another question that we would like to address from Junts to Catalonia – there has already been a reference. The primary needs more resources, certainly, and this is also its responsibility. The primary needs more recognition, than this, from a treasure point of view or from an economic point of finance, does not have so much transcendence. But what you need is also a few better wages, a chance to develop your pocket much more suited to your physical space and your territory, a chance even more autonomously to develop your faculties and your functions, and, sometimes also, to tell them clearly that they are at the center of our system of salvation. I agree that there has been such an excessive hospital policy, but a historic effort has been made in this country so that practically all the regional capitals of our country have a hospital. And I don't know if it's a benefit or a shared approach for "socio-virgency," which seems to me to be a simple one, to focus on these issues from this perspective, because for the Health Department, practically, there have been all the political parties of this hemisphere, all the political parties, except the CUP and except the People's Party, and all that have this proposal, and even Citizens, because still..., and winning the elections were not able to rule. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not interrupting, please, that I was just about to say something that seemed [[relays]] , which has to see what we have to make an effort, certainly, to take over the country's system of salvation. There was already a structure built and pre-existing to the Government of the Generality, and what was tried is, precisely, to take advantage of somehow the best managements, the best layouts of that pre-existing health system and to modernize it. And it is true that there has been a process of modernization and improvement, and that such a time we are at a stage that can transform, modify and somehow improve this system. Of model change or discussion about the model only does practically the CUP. The total emena to the model of salvation of Catalonia he makes the CUP. So, I'm surprised sometimes here at the hemicicle, in some interventions, that it seems that practically this model of health system does not share practically anyone. We share it; what we want to do is clearly improve it. And we have to have the capacity to do so, and, in addition, what we need is the consent of most parliamentary groups. The rest are partial elements of the system, which we also agree must be resolved in an imminent manner. Just remind them that the revision of the model has to be done in the Parliament of Catalonia, it is obvious, but who has to implement it will be the Government of Catalonia that arose from the next elections. The toilet of why there are elections more or less late doesn't have much to feel; it's always good to ask the citizen's opinion, always. Even when the townspeople are planted that want to change certain structures and that want to have the right to decide and that they want to plant even to make a reference for independence, it's also good. Is it good to consult the citizenry? Always. Always and anyway. And, therefore, these choices that come to me seem to be an opportunity also from the realm of salvation to lay down each and every parliamentary group's draft of some – we do believe so – more central, more basic, more necessary and more priority policies than are the policies of salvation. At the end, and only in order to complete my intervention, I thank them for the effort they have made precisely to clearly expose their interventions beyond the differences that exist, which are not as many as from a point of view speech sometimes apparent in the Chamber of Parliament. Let them know that there is a general consensus about the system and what it is, but somehow, to improve it, and to improve it above all in the interest of the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the government's turn, if I want to intervene. [[Pause.]] They say no to me. Therefore, after the debate, this presidency has come to the conclusion that in accordance with the sequence agreed upon by the Board of Spokesmen, the processing of subsequent motions for resolutions will follow: the deadline for submitting subsequent motions for resolutions in this debate will be 1600 hours late, at 4 p.m.; the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of proposals admitted to the Bureau will be the same late in suspending the session; the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be until 13.30 p.m., at 1 p.m.; the submission and voting of motions for resolutions will be reduced from 11 p.m. and averaging. [[Proposal for a change in the name of the Commission for People's Equality]] [[395-00264/12]] Next, we proceed to the third item on the agenda, which is the proposal to change the name of the Committee on People's Equality. In response to the request submitted, the following change of name is proposed to the Plenary, in accordance with Article 47 of the Rules: the Commission d'Igualtat de los Pesos would be renamed the Commission d'Igualtat de los Pesos y de Feminismos. Is there any parliamentary group that wants to intervene at this point? [[Pause.]] I understand that... given the proposal that has been put forward and that there are no interventions, I can tell you that the vote on the name change is going to be late to finish item 6 of the order of the day together with the rest of the votes. And now, let's suspend the session until after dinar. In concrete terms, at three o'clock the session is resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.151.0	[[For technical reasons, the President's intervention has not been recorded.]] [[Decree-Law No 31/2020 of 8 September, amending Legislative Decree No 1/2000 of 31 July, approving the Single Text of the Law on Sport, and establishing measures for the functioning of the governing bodies of the sports entities of Catalonia]] [[203-00056/12]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.212.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies. I am coming to present a new decree concerning, in this case, the world of sport, in which we authorize the sports entities of Catalonia to use electronic means to ensure its ordinary functioning. In fact, what this decree law that we are coming to present today is part of this situation in which we find ourselves, which is this health pandemic. And of all the measures that, like the Government, we have to take and have to implement, so that we can guarantee – as day-to-day – the ordinary functioning and day-to-day, in this case and in this decree, of the sports entities of our country. I would like, however, in the first place, to put in value and ratify the import of sports entities to Catalonia. And I've said it on more than one occasion, and so have some of this pharystylist. And I say it with conviction and I say it with firmness: the basis of the Catalan sports system lies in a network of sports associations, which is powerful and which is very consolidated in our home. Only the numbers or figures of the Official Register of Sports Entities of the General Secretary of Sport can be seen. There have been several thousand sports entities, land raids, mainly sports clubs, among which there are professional sports clubs with a lot of specific fishes in our country, such as Barça or Espanyol. There are seventy-three sports federations, which claim more than six-hundred_ thousand federations. There are forty-five sports councils, which employ 450,000 students, such as AMPAs or sports associations, among others. And all this movement, sport and social, is considered one of the fundamental and differential traits in our sport, and it's also one of our main actions. Private entities, with their own legal personality and without purpose, which have as their object the promotion and development of sports practice, are a living element, evolving and adapting to each moment. And it is for this reason that one of our priorities is to facilitate the functioning of these sports organizations and to guarantee their quality. And we do it, with modifications like today's presentation and that contribute to the ability of sports entities to strengthen their management skills. As a motor of our sport, entities need us to equip them with all the tools and resources they need to continue to be the pillar around which the progress of sports practice in our country revolves. As a result of the exceptional situation in which we find ourselves, generated by the later epidemic outbreaks of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ban on finding and gatherings of more than six people, as you all know, was approved. Both in the private and public spheres. This measure, therefore, determines the need to establish with urgent character a regulation of the functioning of the organs collected from the sports entities, so that they can continue with the development of their functions. Transformations that used to take many years, now are activated in a short time. The pandemic has shaken most of the areas of our society and sport is no exception. The impact of Covid-19 has accelerated the adoption of digitalization, in this case, in a sector that is looking, day by day, for formulas to adapt. The dam, or new normality, requires agility in situations that we had no idea. Now digital transformation is not an option, but a solution. Everyone is predisposed to make changes, and in this sense, the digital tools that we have been forced to use during the pandemic have made it easier for us every day. And it is for this reason that the Government approved this decree, which enabled the sports entities of Catalonia to use electronic means to ensure their ordinary functioning, and to facilitate meetings and facilitate the agreements of their governing bodies. And it does, so, because I stayed permanently in the joint of the Sports Law, they point out that this has become an ordinary necessity of this to be a way of working from now on. The measure must allow us to regulate and facilitate the performance of the bodies of sports entities, so that they can continue with the development of their activities. The law that I present today introduces a new article, 31a, in Legislative Decree 1/2000 of 31 July, for which the sole text of the Law of Sport is approved, which enables sports entities in Catalonia to use electronic media for meeting and agreeing. It is also determined which conditions must be guaranteed, in accordance with Article 312.5.2, of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Therefore, and from then on, the governing bodies of the sports entities of Catalonia can meet and adopt agreements at a distance, provided that their statutes do not expressly prohibit it. The joint directives of the sports entities and their delegated committees may also adopt agreements without meeting, in accordance with Article 312.7 of the Civil Code of Catalonia, even though the statutes so provide. Now, general meetings away from the sporting entities of Catalonia can only be held to ensure the ordinary functioning of the sporting entity, but in any event they can do to modify the statutes or regulations of the entity, choose the members of the board of directors, approve a vote of censure, agree on the transformation, the fusion or the excision of the entity or, finally, its dissolution. A first transitional provision is also incorporated, in which, in the event that the meetings of the General Assembly cannot be held at a distance, it enables the entities' joint directives to adopt all those agreements on the measures to ensure the essential functioning of the entity, as a consequence of the health crisis generated by the Covid-19. At the same time, the joint directives of the Catalan sports federations are enabled to adopt the measures they consider necessary, on the sporting competition calendar corresponding to the 2020-2021 season, which will deploy their effects from the date of their approval. These agreements, which the joint directives of the sports entities adopt, are to be ratified by the general assembly of the entity at an ordinary or extraordinary meeting, in a period of not more than sixty natural days from the date on which it is ceased to produce effects, the resolution for which these special measures in the field of public safety are adopted for the containment of the epidemic outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in Catalonia. At the same time, the terms are extended to approve the annual accounts of sports entities, when the ordinary general meetings of entities by electronic means cannot be held. And finally, the third transitional provision of the law is taken advantage of to clarify that the mandates of the joint directives of the sports entities of Catalonia that have expired during the duration of the state of alarm or well during this period, including between the date of lifting of the state of alarm and the entry into force of this decree, is extended until 31 December 2020. That is to say, if an entity is to renew its board of directors with a perlongated mandate, the election of the new board of directors must take place, as at most, on this date of 31 December 2020. It shall also take advantage of the opportunity to facilitate the voting process of the electoral procedures, which may provide for voting for the election of the members of the new board, independently of the holding of a general assembly, so that these votes may complete with all the health measures in force at the time of their performance and that voters may issue their votes in a free, face-to-face, direct, equal and secret manner. These are the most important measures of the decree I have come to present to you today. Nevertheless, allow me..., I would like to be able to comment that, while the exceptional situation in which we find ourselves, as well as that we are patenting repression and injustice and this Parliament, therefore, is not a proof, this Government is still working and this is our compromise, in order to facilitate the welfare of our country's citizenship. Despite everything, we're still moving forward. And, as President Torra asked of us, we will fight the twenty-four hours of the day for the life and salvation of people. Also, in this case, for the salvation of our sports entities. Thank you very much, MPs and MPs. And I hope you'll trust us by approving this decree that I've come to introduce to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.152.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is now the turn of parliamentary groups to stand up to this decree, with a five-minute intervention for the parliamentary group and also for the subgroup, as agreed to by the Board of Spokespersons. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Javier Rivas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.153.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. In spring, they brought us a very similar decree, 20/2020, of 26 May, which enabled in a temporary way, and now they bring it to us as a legislative amendment, adding a 31 bis point to our old sports law. I say «old law of sport because, at the beginning of this legislature there was a lot of concern in the sector, it was mobilized, they did an ILP, which is a tremendous job, they did a drafting, a draft of a law, but well, they have used all the arguments of parliamentary filibusterism to keep it in a drawer. There it is and will fall with this Kabuki theater legislature that we have had. So they have had no choice but to add that to the old law of sport. We think it's opportune. In fact, I believe that in the past decree I have already told you, I think they are not short-term measures, but they have to be structural measures. We are repeating processes of the nineteenth century, when we have technological tools of the twenty-first century, which we are not using to the extent of the possibilities we have. The Covid has a lot more cross than face, but it's the coin that's touched us. And I think we have the opportunity, now the obligation to force, to implement all this modernization throughout the administration, also sports. And digitization, then, man, is a very powerful tool that we have to use, regardless of the Covid or not the Covid. The Covid, let's hope, we want it to end as soon as possible, but sport, society as a whole, will continue. He mentions the disqualification of President Torra. I did not want to enter this debate, because I came here to talk about sport. But if we approve – which I believe we will adopt today – this decree that you present to us, this will become part of the legislative body, and will give rights and obligations to all leaders of sports entities. And as in all laws, there are sanctioning regimes. The legislative corpus is not an a la carte menu, I ask this of first and the other of second. No, no..., it's not a letter from a restaurant, it's a menu of the day for all citizens, who are equal in rights and obligations, including the President of the Generalitat or us as deputies, or any other citizen who listens to us, from sport or from any other sector. We have brought to this Parliament, a long time ago, a proposal which was seen in committee, that the budget should be allocated at 1_percent of the budget figure, which is variable, to sport, because it is a sector which is underfunded and which, with the Covid, will still need more aid, right? The Covid is going to leave us with sequels and, in some cases, very ugly, scars; I hope one of the sequels they leave us is that we realize not the price, but the value of things, right? Of life, of health, of prosperity, of tranquillity, of family, of friends, of coexistence, of a longet cetera of many things. I hope that we realize that the difficulties of our time need politicians to rise to these dramatic circumstances. I wish! "I wish it was a word of Arab origin, it means "I want God; I am not a believer, but I wish the people who are investigating the Covid, all those people who in silence work day and night incessantly, indistinctly of the language they speak, nationality, race, religion, I hope they find a remedy sooner than later for this plague. All my thanks, all my hope in them. And also a message of encouragement, how not? , the whole sector of sport and society as a whole, in general, isn't it? In this dark moment that has touched us to live it is not worth surrendering itself. I think we have to have more sports spirit than ever before, the values of effort, work, humility, overcoming... We have to tighten our teeth, we have to tighten our fists, but we cannot close any sports entity and no company, because the Covid will pass, but life will continue. Yesterday I was at home and I was looking at a shelf and a book fell into my hands that seemed opportune to the war-civilist times we are living in, didn't it? And I hate it. It is a novel by Hemingway that is set in our last Civil War, it is entitled By whom the bells bend, and in his prologue he makes a quote, which borrowed the title of a thinker named John Donne, in the prologue he said: "No one is an island in itself, the death of anyone affects me, because I find myself united to all humanity; therefore, never ask for whom the bells bend, they bend for you. From Citizens we have not come here to ring the bell, but we have come to work to make it sound as little as possible, counsel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament Óscar Ordeig has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.155.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, Vice-President, Members and Deputies, Secretary General of the Esport, that I am sure he is listening to us, let me begin our intervention by saying that we will obviously vote in favour of this decree, but we will also introduce some reflections that accompany what we said the last day that we also passed a decree similar to this one. And it is that between a new law of sport or between the National Pact for physical activity and sport or this decree there is an important enough universe of measures to pull forward. And here we go back to the table that we think we're short, we're short, and so we solve a very concrete problem because entities don't collate, clubs can continue their ordinary activities. Totally fine. But I think it's the anecdote of the real problem we have on the table. And what is this real problem? So, man, if we already had some important reps to settle before the Covid, so, the Covid has placed us in a complex drill to get out for many entities, associations... And I would also like to get out of entities and associations, public/private, because it is a very big universe that affects the sport world, the practice of sports activity. I always say that our goal is that since the President of Parliament, the Members and the Members, the members of the Government, our children, our parents, our opinions, the uixers who accompany us, the 100_percent of the people who practice physical activity on a regular basis. Otherwise, we won't have a healthy society, a healthy society. And, therefore, at these times that there has been, surely, a fall in physical activity resulting from restrictions and everything that has passed and that will have entities that have disappeared or are at risk of disappearing, I believe that the Public Administration that is to set up a bridge, set up a lifeguard and try to push these entities through a concert table to make a great deal of support to the sports sector and to the practice of physical activity; through a grant program, such as other public administrations, from supporting these entities – not just credit, subsidies to lost sources – as well as by analyzing what is happening to families that do not have resources: can they act physically? Do you have to help them? How do we collaborate with the gatherings? What's going on in the private sector? Lots of sports centers, lots of yoga centers, lots of people's activity centers... pregnant women who do physical activity. Therefore, the complexity is so great and the consequences can be so dramatic for the physical and mental salvation of our people that I think we need to open our eyes, see all the people affected and make commitments for the future. We believe that it is a plan of modernization and digitization of the sport sector. This measure approved today went in the direction, yes, but it would also be a detail of what we can do now with the new possibilities we have: modernizing the sector, digitizing it. We see how there is a lot of sports activity via the Internet that has taken place a lot and has entered Catalan languages, and a lot of people who do physical activity at schools. Therefore, enjoy it. We believe that what would be hot, for example, is to introduce elements. I give some examples that claim here. We believe that what would be hot, for example, is to clarify with a decree of concrete measures of access to sports facilities. It can't be that one walks into a pavilion and takes some steps to get into the ranks, to get into the installations, wanders into another and takes a lot of different measures. Therefore, we must not advise, but say that we must do so. And, for that matter, that's for everyone. Either each assembly makes the recommendations or each club makes the protocols that it thinks are convenient. For another band, it is also necessary to clarify, have a health or sports authority that clarifies the criteria of confinement in cases of positius. It can't be that two teams facing each other have a positive, on one team they tell one thing, and on the other side they tell the counter. That's what happened, you know. We understand the complexity of management, but we need to try a clear criterion and know who the person is to be told. For another band, I think it would be a good time to introduce the third hour of physical activity to the school, the third hour, school or non-school, with extracurriculars or in pati hours or assignments doing physical activity, but we believe that it is an old claim that we place on the table to try that all children do sixty minutes of physical activity a day. That's not happening. We've retreated, sure. So, I think a third hour would be welcome. As well as recovering the old sports receipt at CAPs; it's also a time when we need to receive fewer pills and more physical activity, and we'll put it back on the table. So, finally, we are voting in favour of it, but obviously we are calling for this great agreement of a country to support Catalan sport, an anti-Covid economic fund and which the government exercises as a sports authority precisely to define clear criteria of what clubs, together, can do when they engage in sports activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the word now the deputy Concepción Abellán. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.157.0	Thank you, President. We are faced with a decree of modification that establishes measures of operation of the governing bodies of the sports entities of Catalonia so that they can continue the development of their functions, something in which we agree, given the situation we are experiencing, but that we find it shameful that we only have decrees so and not to give real support to sport in the current economic and social crisis that we are suffering. We still do not know what proposals the Government has to be able to rescue an essential and essential sector such as sport. Or, rather, we do. For the moment, we have seen on television a magnificent campaign by the Secretary General of l'Esport, a motto, "A country, a team, good image, good sound, epic. But, of course, when we go to real politics, how the issue of sport is being addressed from the government, because it leaves much to be desired. From the aid announced and implemented at the beginning of the pandemic in the form of loans, with the Institut Català de Financiers, to Mr Figueras, who is neither expected nor expected. We believe that it is time for us to put forward forcefully proposals to deal primarily with community and training sport. We remind you again – because we no longer said it at the time – that those associations, those entities that create community and have an essential role in the social cohesion of our neighbourhoods have remained in a situation of very delicate viability to present and future. The start of the season has been difficult for all with the measures of limitations of leisure in some sports competitions, without public in others, and clubs complying with the sanitary standards. Efforts, resources and sacrifices by the sports sector to ensure the regular activity of their athletes, as well as their followers. This effort has not been compensated by an administration that has taken concrete measures in the form of resources to the sports entities that really need it. Clubs, federations, associations and entities that, despite the drop in income caused mainly by the practice of no lockers or by the decrease in some cases of sports practice in out-of-schools – which in many cases are the source of extra income for the clubs to guarantee their subsistence – have not been matched with aid packages or Covid funds to justify the Administration to continue its ordinary activity. And I'd like to talk about extracurriculars, given the situation that's going on. Families who cannot afford to take their children because of their reduced income due to the situation of the Covid, boys and girls without access to sports practice due to lack of support and support from the Administration. This situation is derived from municipalities, which every day are seeing lower incomes, and it is thus avoided, from the Generalitat, to take care of the situation and not to give help or support to families. Nor have we seen any real cooperation between different administrations to work and implement health measures that make sport accessible. Families without seeing their sons and daughters during out-of-school activities, because of the proximity, that is, that they stay together at the doors while trying to find holes that allow them to see the boys and girls doing the activities. Has it not been passed through their heads to signal the spaces and thus to normalize as much as possible an already complex situation? And the questions I ask you all the time, she advises: what does the National Platform specifically consist of for the reactivation of sport and physical activity in Catalonia? Where are the concrete actions? Where is the budget allocation? Where is complicity between entities and the Government? Where is that public - private partnership that fills their mouths when it suits them to put public services at the mercy of lucrative private interests? There is a need for collaboration between entities and administrations. Resources are lacking not to let the associative fabric of sports entities die, which not only compete, but also educate in values, form people and weave complicitys. Support for the decree should be unanimous, since in times of pandemic it is logical to use the entities, also sports, so that they can search for telematic formulas and continue their activity. But we believe that it is also essential to strengthen the associative fabric and not to encourage mergers of lobbies, as well as to ensure that the aid is transparent and does not end in the same as usual. But, of course, the government's action in the field of sports leaves much to be desired. « A country, a team should be more than an epic, empty slogan of content and be a team motto that wears the T-shirt of equal opportunities, practices and promotes associative play and has a recognizable style of play. And finally, you have shown that you don't work as a team or as a government. At least have the honesty to team up with the citizenry, rowing with the sport to get out together and together from this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.159.0	Thank you, President – from the escó. Well, first of all, let us say that we will vote in favour of this decree. Obviously, it is necessary and share its proposals. But we want to make three observations. One, that these measures do not serve so much as to minimize the democratic deficits that exist in many of the sports entities and in many of the sports clubs in this country. Unfortunately, the sport world is a world in which democratic participation, participatory democracy has not yet arrived or has not arrived satisfactorily, I insist, to many entities or to many clubs. Therefore, the same way that we approve this decree that we have a very vigilant attitude to democratic deficiencies in sports entities and that we have a proactive policy to encourage it. Secondly, as has been said in some previous interventions, this is certainly not the main problem for the sport sector. We are ahead of a huge crisis that can take many clubs and sports entities forward. Therefore, we believe that it is essential that this Government urgently launches a plan of action, an emergency plan, a rescue plan for the sports entities of this country, with priority being given to formatting, community and basic sports. Because it is a fundamental fabric in our country, because, precisely, an activity such as sports, which is subject to a discipline, a culture of responsibility and solidarity, is a suitable environment for carrying out the activity with preventive measures that will have a good welcome and a good degree of compliment. And, on the other hand, because it is an essential activity for its social consequences and its consequences from the point of view of the public salvation of the present and future people. Therefore, it is essential to rescue this basic, local, municipal sport. This community and formative sport, which I insist on, is a social activity which can be developed with guarantees of health and which will contribute to the social and community health of our country. And lastly, it also seems to us very important that the government help families with less economic resources in this country so that their children do not have to give up extra-school sports between or outside school. We cannot allow the practice of sport in this country to have a class difference. We already had it, and we have the risk that with the current economic and social crisis, we still have it more. We cannot allow the sport to have class differences and that this space has now been converted into a space of differentiation, inequality and social injustice. Therefore, we ask, too, not only this support for the sport fabric, but also support for families with less resources so that their children can enjoy it on conditions of equality than the rest of the sport practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.161.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, this decree is not a decree that rules cross-cutting the sport. It is a law framed between the health crisis caused by Covid and that they intend to cover a hole and, therefore, try to give a solution to a problem that is real. You're not new, you're not new. It has been said, the decree of May 20th was already coming to offer this same solution, literally, between other things, but this same solution to sports entities. Indeed, at that time it was transitory while the state of alarm lasted and today is set up as a permanent reform of the Law of Sport. But basically, what you see is that the meetings of the governing bodies of sports entities can be done in a telematic way, that ‘the joint directives can agree without needing to make meetings, with votes of their members also in a telematic way and at a distance. And all this is necessary right now for there to be limitations again. By the time the law decree was passed by the government, the limitation was on meetings of two people, at this time they are meetings of six people. And, therefore, this makes it impossible to celebrate meetings. Therefore, we understand the issue and the objective of pursuing this law decree and, moreover, with a permanence vocation. Home, I can't be telling you anything, can I? Apart from the fact that there are obviously a lot of things about sports policy that you talk about and the laws that there are – that certainly the ILP does not go down with the legislature, but it has a vocation of permanence and, therefore, the next legislature will continue in force and, therefore, there will be the debate on the sport. Home, we've been surprised, man, whether they want it or not – because we don't have much confidence in this government – is the fact that we make exceptions at the time of regular meetings. I, for example, authorize telematic assemblies, but there are exceptions such as, for example: "modify statutes and regulations, choose members of the joint directives, vote of censure. Home, therefore, it is very good that the Government, that they are the same people who pretend that it is possible to make plenarys of the Parliament telematics and that, even so, it is possible to invest presidents of the Generality in a telematic way, to sports entities do not allow them to do what they intend to do with the Government of the Generality. It seems reasonable to us. It seems reasonable to us that this is the way it is. What did not seem reasonable to us was that it was possible to invest presidents of the Generality in a telematic and distance way. Well, that's it. The councilwoman asked us to trust her to bring this decree before her and, man, and we agree, we will not vote against this decree, but they will understand that trust, this government, for us does not have people or any. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.162.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.163.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise. I think with regard to the decree, there's a little left to say. I think it's a much more bureaucratic process, especially as a result of the decline in demand for entities and the sector, than simply what the department does, isn't it? , is to collect them and give that tool that I think is necessary and that, at last, allows us to evolve a step further towards digitization or, as a minimum, the simplification of some bureaucratic areas, which is also an insistent demand at the level of relationship with institutions. From here, thank the debate that has taken place in different parliamentary groups with this vocation to hear sport as a basic pillar at social and educational level. It is true that this legislature, unlike others, has been on the table in the debate of the future law of sport. Because I think we're all aware that we're changing. This morning we were talking in the monographic debate of salvation of a transformation and I think we're at this point. That's why this sports law, apart from a lot of talk, a lot of work, there's a lot of reflection. Because it's not about modifying or adapting with a brushstroke, but I think it's about transforming what we understand as the sport world. And, as I'm saying, transform means getting a little bit out of our limits, out of our parameters. Why is he in the presidency? Because it's understood that this is a powerful tool across the board. In ugly terms, the Socialist MP turned out to be. And we also have to think that sport will be able when we truly believe that it is a very important social tool for this strength of social cohesion, to reach all stages and to promote healthy habits. Today we said: "We want to create a very powerful public system of salvation. Let's start this way. Let's start with the sport, let's start with the food, because what we're going to do is start building, from this area, a city that, with good habits, will prevent the disease and, in this way, our system of salvation will really have to intervene in those situations that are already harder. And I think that's the look we have to face. This future law of sport must help us to be transversal; to look at how we incorporate in a plural way in the different spheres the eine of sport, at the level of social services, at the level of health, at the level of hearing a CAP, probably with a swimming pool on the side, with a sports equipment and with technical aversions to physical activity, because this is a tool more than..., went to say cure but it wouldn't be that, wouldn't it? , but it would be to intervene in this education that, sometimes, not all of us at the sport level could have had in the first moment. But it is true that there are very big warning signs, and it is time that we can no longer talk about it, but that we need to be very and very aware of it. The world of sport, like the world of culture, has not lived for a few years easily, but it has gone away. He's used to competing and fighting, but now the time is very critical, they let us know. Our country, if it is different in any way, is in this Community teixit. You've made a note of the number of sports entities there is. When I trained, the difference there was with other communities is that the big clubs don't come from just institutional grants, but in Catalonia the associate tissue grows backwards, right? The community, the people associate, and from here what this institution support is to pull forward. And now we can say he's in danger..., we'll try to say, but, very, very ill, and here we do have to be clever enough to try and make sure this doesn't go away. Because, if it disappears, I think it disappears a business that has defined us as Catalan society, as a way of doing and working in our municipalities and hearing the Community fabric. Therefore, add us to all these recommendations. I believe that today everyone has come out to the Faristol with a claim in a sports mentality, in addition, with proposals on the table and we will gather this spirit that has lived today, each one with its own gaze at how we would face this new project, but with a demand, because I believe that it is vital that at these times we assume that it is essential that the sports sector, we help it to overcome. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.164.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Tarrés has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.165.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advise..., thank the rest of the parliamentary groups for the validation of this decree, a tool that, as our companies have said, the sector needs to be able to regulate the performance and functioning of the bodies of sports entities and authorizes them to use electronic means so that they can continue with the development of their activity before the exceptional situation we are experiencing. Already said before Councilwoman Budó, the impact of Covid-19 has accelerated the adoption of digitalization in most areas of society, and sport is no exception. But I let them remember that before the end of the Catalonia pandemic I was already betting for digitalization. The interest in maintaining us as a country with an innovative vocation, with the will to adapt, change and transform, together with the policies applied to modernisation and digitisation of our structures, this interest, as I say, has been decisive in consolidating Catalonia as a digitally advanced and forward-looking country in the European Union, with a degree of digitisation of 62.47_per_cent, is to say, points above medium, according to the indicators of the Digital Economy and Society Index in the annual report prepared by the European Commission, that is, the 2019 report. We must remember, therefore, that the Junts bet for Catalonia for digital policies has been firm and strong from the principles of this legislature. In this sense, I think it is worth recalling the motions that my group has tabled during this period and that have been, moreover, approved. Leave'mfer a little incis. Mr Ciutadans Group, your parliamentary group abstained in many of these votes. Therefore, it is not a waste to make a demagogic at these moments here of the importance of modernity and digitalization, when you are not supporting us afterwards. As I said, the motions that have been approved are the following: the motion on the National Pact for the Digital Society; on the digitization of the product texture; on the Catalan card for the rights and digital responsibilities, and on the deployment of optical fiber. Also remember that at the beginning of the year 2019 we tried to approve a motion in favor of electronic voting. At that time, we had to withdraw it for lack of consent, but we must reiterate that we are pleased that we now find all our folds on the road. On this occasion we are ahead of a decree enabling sports entities in Catalonia to use electronic means to meet, and it also allows their governing bodies to agree in cases of ordinary assemblies and renewal of mandates of government assemblies, as has been said, whenever their statutes do not prohibit it. The decree also allows the joint directives of sports entities and their delegated committees to adopt agreements without the need to meet, in accordance with Article 312.7 of the Civil Code of Catalonia, even though it is not foreseen in the statutes. It also allows general meetings to be held at a distance to ensure the ordinary functioning of the sports entity. It must be emphasized, however, that the decree will not guarantee that the statutes and regulations of the entity will not be amended, that the members of the board of directors will be elected, that the vote of censure will be approved, or that the transformation or merger will be agreed, or that the entity will be dissolved. In order not to widen and repeat what has already been said in this debate, and what the adviser has explained very clearly, remember that the decree incorporates three transitory dispositions that give coverage to all needs because the governing organs of the sports entities have guaranteed its functioning while the state of exceptionality lasts. Thanks, she will advise, to ensure the proper functioning of our sports entities and to donate tools of social transformation through the digitalization of the sports sector. We know that the sector has rejected this new regulation very positively. Together for Catalonia we will vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate, I'm guessing that the validation of this decree will vote this late at the end of point 6, as the rest of the points we're debating during this late. [[Urban Economic Promotion Areas Law Project (totality debate)]] [[200-00017/12]] So let's move on to the next point of the order of the day, which is the fifth, and which corresponds to the totality debate of the Urban Economic Promotion Law Project. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, to present this legislative initiative, first of all, has the words of the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mr Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.167.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I present to you the APEU Law Project, the areas of urban economic promotion, which we present with an extraordinary emergency, in response to the situation we live in. In fact, the crisis that we are living in the Covid-19_has caused a clear and obvious impact on our country's commercial fabric, not so much of the sales lost during the state of alarm and the weeks of confinement, but also because of the difficulties involved in the recovery and normalization phases of the activity. In fact, some trades haven't opened yet and those that did are often found with low demand. The purchases of foreign tourism have fallen and many times also the purchases of local consumers. Therefore, we are at a time when we need to reinvent the business model to adapt it to new consumption habits. I won't let them know that this law has the objective of saving as many businesses as we can, holding the peppers as many months as we can, so maybe, if we don't have a vaccine in a few months, we can have, for example, quick, reliable tests and cheats that allow to fill planes another time, fill the wires, fill the theaters... Normalize, if we can say it in some way, the activity while we don't have the definite goal. So, so, this bill of law that you want to save peppers, hold them, all the while waiting for your own months to find better ways to live with this pandemic that we have in front of us. Therefore, we are talking about an urban economic promotion law that wants to be an opportunity and that wants to create public-private collaboration structures. It is a tool that can give us an immediate answer and that can also, at the same time, revitalize the urban spaces of many towns and cities in our country. For all this the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge we have asked for the extraordinary urgency processing of this bill. They understand that they can't wait for the legislature to fall. They can't wait for a new government to come in. If we approve it now it can go into operation before and this can help our people's and cities' trades. In fact, also, from this bill, APEUs want to defend a certain country model. The big company has more resistance to the crisis, easier access to the market, easier access to the bank's financing conditions. It's the little trader who, if he's got a bad time, so he can get a lot more out of it. And in this sense we understand that it is a majority view of the conjunct of the chamber that can continue coexisting with the great surface also the small trade. And that's why we're asking them, so they're costing and supporting this bill. The APEUs are inspired by a successful model that runs around the world and is known as BIDs: business improved district. They were created 50 years ago in Toronto and today there are no more than 2,500 world-wide tracts, with a large implantation in countries such as the United States, Canada, Germany or the United Kingdom. The EUPA is a geographical area of a municipality – for example, a previously delimited historical centre – over which – over this area or area – a project with a strategic plan and a plan of actions for the economic and social development of public interest is proposed. The project, which is to be won by the votes of the merchants of the delimited area, must also be approved by the municipal court and would then be managed by a managing body. Once approved of this project, this will be of mandatory relevance for all locals with direct access to the public lives located in this area where the APEU is located. Therefore, we want to generate additional services to promote and revitalize commercial areas. In this way we want to avoid, for example, situations of degradation of some areas, as we often observe in our cities, while we want to improve the competitiveness of these commercial areas. It is important, therefore, in this sense, that the functions that can be performed by APEUs do not want to replace or undermine the municipal services already provided by the assembly. This is the will, if not, that we want to defend. We believe that Catalonia has about one hundred and thousand commercial establishments and, therefore, we are addressing a sector that has a very important GDP, which can generate employment up to half a million people, which generates a 15-percent of Catalonia's GDP. Hence the need that we need for the emergency procedure to be accepted by this chamber. In this sense, therefore, to enter a little more into the detail, the terms laid down by this APEU project assume that interested parties must submit a project to the assembly, which has a maximum of two_months to pronounce. There is a period of public information, you can make statements and, finally, you vote on the proposal. The project will be considered approved if I obtained the favorable vote of more than 50_percent of the commercial premises of the area in question, which represent at least 50_percent of the weighted constructed surface of all affected premises. If it is approved in this area by part of these consensuses, these shields of commercial premises and surface, must pass to the plethora of the assembly and must be approved for the municipal plenary. Then, in this case, this area, this APEU, would come into force. Therefore, we are not suggesting that the private sector replaces the public sector, we are also trying to ensure that the public sector works more closely with the private sector. Therefore, we would like and would like this bill to be a draft of consensus, to which we may have many different parties with different sensitivities to find a common point, and which we can give a message to our traders, many of whom are having a bad time, that we are actually able to arrive at a consensus to arbitrate mechanisms that may shortly trigger the economic activity of these urban centres, in many cases historical centres of our towns and cities. For all this, they ask them to vote in favour of this project, because we understand that the EPAs are an instrument that allows us to evolve, that allows us to modernise our business model, always starting from the base that we want a balanced country model, where small trade can survive with the great surface, and where the people are cohesively urbanly and not deserted and on the average we also follow more efficient at the time of managing also the needs that satisfy the commercial activity in our home. Therefore, we understand from the government – and I finish – that in a context of economic crisis as we are living, therefore, it would be great news, that we would also give doors to it, that a majority of this chamber would be very full of this initiative. Think about it, and I'll give you a date that I read a lot in Anglo-Saxon newspapers, but at home I don't see it: this crisis is very different from the previous one because we find that bank deposits are in maximum history. Just as in 2010 the bank had a very difficult problem collapsing its credit structures over the months, for years, this caused asphyxiation of peppers, clogging of peppers, street workers, destruction of labor and capital yields, and a crisis like these is too many years to come out – we trigated five years, in our case – so now we find that there are historical records in bank deposits. In the United States the estalvi tax has exceeded two digits in terms of disposable income. This has been going on for decades. Therefore, there is a very high uncertainty situation that challenges consumption. And that's why it's very important that the peppers arrive until April, because if, for example, we have these reliable tests, fast and cheap, and so we have a sure way of living while the vaccine doesn't come up, we can see how the consumption is recovered in many areas of activity, and the sale of cars goes away, and people go back to restaurants and culture fills theaters again... Therefore, we understand that everything we can do from this Parliament and from this Government to save the peppers until April is important, and we understand that this APEU Law Project, these areas of urban economic promotion, can be useful in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.168.0	Thank you, Counselor. And before we move on to the rest of the debate, I would like to say hello and welcome to Congressman Joan Antoni Caballol. Welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia, Member of Parliament. We continue with the debate, and I now respond, to defend the whole issue, the intervention of Mr Lucas Ferro, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. As soon as I can, I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.169.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members... ; Councillor, we have not had opportunities to coincide, I hope we can do so in the next few days. Anyway, give her the welcome. What is this law looking for? For us it is a law – and now we will enter into the background of the discussion – that basically what it proposes is to privatise the management of the municipal public space and municipal public services, or at least on the part of the municipal public services, and that this privatization of the management, both of the city space and of some public services, is the vehicle through which the economy is dynamic. How do I pretend to do that? I intend to do this from the grouping of commercial owners, and not from the tradesmen who say commercial owners, because we will then talk about this, of building space owners where there can be a long term economic activity in cities, which can be grouped into a private law entity, a private entity, which can be assumed, the same and the rest of the businesses in that district, quotas, is to say, practically, that they can collect money from the remaining trades to manage part of the municipal public services in private form and part of the urban planning in private form. And all that for what? To create what is known as free commercial centres, it is to say, that there are certain areas of the city where commercial owners can group in a private entity and manage municipal services in a private way pursuing, therefore, a private interest with the objective of dynamizing those barrels. What does that all translate into? In that the joint ventures would yield part of their competences to a private entity of economic owners to manage policies of urban improvement, of clean streets, of environmental services, to promote policies of mobility, of commercial timetables and to promote proposals of citizens' security policy in those districts. That's to say, in the same city we'll have areas where these private entities that pick up small businesses will generate extra municipal services and more privatized, and areas where that won't happen. And I think this is an element that we'll put on the table and discuss further, but we don't like to start anymore. And the point of all this is that this extra recap generates a dynamism that reversed the degradation of some urban areas. And now we're going to talk about all this. But before I speak of those things in which we support our task to the totality, I would like to refer to positive elements that we find in this law. I know there are groups that see the gout half empty and half full. We see it as empty, but we see some positive things. The first, it gives a legal framework to some dynamics that are already giving themselves in the urban planning of many joints. It's like, in a lot of joints, they're being generated, through botigo associations and associationism, huh? , areas dedicated to trade, and this has an impact on urbanism, has an impact on mobility policies, etc., and has no legal mark – now we'll talk about it, of this. But this law, for the first time, gives it a legal framework that goes beyond urban policy and municipal policy. And these dynamics that are already given in some cities of our country that are giving them are policies that seem interesting to us, that is: in the town center of some cities, especially in middle cities, what is established is a trading center that allows small stores to compete with large commercial surfaces making it what we know as shopping centers, right? , shopping centres in the free area. Instead of going to the supermarket, you go to the town center, which has practically the same variety of purchases, and this has an impact on the local economy. This logic, including, in some municipalities, has been able to defuse some counterpossible urban logic, such as the fact that small warehouses were opposed to the fact that the streets of the village centre were pedestrians, travelling by road, and creating these commercial centres in the free area could reach certain agreements for, in the old quarter, in the nucleus and in the village centre of some cities, to make urban spaces more appropriate where it is a priority to go little and not to go with a car. To Molins de Rei, the city where I live, that's why it's called the Molins de Rei trading center, and what ended up assuming is that the two blocks of the urban nucleus are pedestrians and that there's a commercial network that ends up feeling, let's say, like a shopping center, like a large surface, and allows them to compete with the rest of large surfaces. Well, I have to say a little morning about what's going on in a few meetings. This urban planning and this business design are planned, directed and managed for the public administration, and it is a great difference with what we are proposing today, which is to say: "No, no; let the shops be organized, that they collect their taxes and plan the policy of use of space in the city. Because now we're going with the negative dynamics that we find that this law can behave. The first, obviously: it is privatised the management of public services. But not only is public service management privatized, but it is managed by entities that are made up solely and exclusively of private agents who have work to do with the city. It's like, they privatize public services and it's about a logic that puts the soul of lust in the center. And we believe that this will obviously generate tensions in the urban nuclei and create tensions in the cities of our home. Besides – and you said it and I agree – these elements rise, first, from Canada, then, from the United States, and they have been incorporated. But let us think of one question: in most Anglo-Saxon cities, urban centres are centres where practically no residential uses are left. And this is a difference with European cities. The Anglo-Saxon urban centres precisely of which they had problems of desertion in their urban centres and nuclei, of commercial enclosures, because they could not compete with large areas, but did not have residential uses. At our house, that doesn't happen. European cities are not American cities, where the centre is an economic center to finance and residential uses have gone to the outskirts, as we see in many American films, that residential barrels are on the outskirts of cities. Here there are residential uses in the village center and outlying areas, and I think that's a phonetic element. Then, a democratic question for us: who can manage these entities? Exclusively the commercial owners; exclusively those who have a business in that district will be able to conform the entities that will direct the private management of public services in that district. And that's taking a very particular model. In the United States, that doesn't happen, and in Canada, that doesn't happen for the most part. That is to say, in the United States and Canada, those that conform to these private entities are also the owners of housing and premises with non-economic uses of the city. And here it is deliberately excluded; here it is left out of the management of the districts the entities of the veins, the owners of the residences and the owners of the businesses without any work, and it is delegated the management of the public services exclusively in the owners who have desire to work on their district. In fact, with the paradox that he will have more ability to decide who has a solar – a solar – where there is no business done but that he can build a business. This gentleman will have more decision-making ability than any association of people. And that's what we think is obvious fear. But, in addition, we would like to make a second reflection. Do not participate in this entity the warehouses, which may be paying an lloger to keep its botiga, its business, no, no: the owners. And all those commercial establishments that are in the hands of money, multinationals, etc., how will they participate in municipal life? Because those who have a direct relationship are the shopkeepers – many times the owners..., they are of foreign reversals that have no interest in the life of the city – and the right to participation is also denied, according to the law. We think this will generate obvious dynamics. So far we have gatherings that plan on cities that have very uneven realities, and that plan, let's say, with perspective, not that the whole city is homogeneous, but that there are equal opportunities for city services. There are commercial areas, there are industrial areas, there are more residential urban areas, but the joints are responsible for this distributed exercise. We believe that this logic of intervention, which will eventually provoke, is to strengthen those processes that accelerate and accentuate the urban inequalities that are accentuated in our country. The first, gentrification. Let's imagine that we own the APEUs... that's to say that we privatize the management of municipal services in the hands of commercial owners and that works. From the outset I mean that the small stores that are in this commercial area, from the very beginning, are obliged by law to pay quota, that is to say, they have more expenses than they had before. Second. If the APEU works and is dynamic that urban area, what will be donated are processes of gentrification that we already know, that is, will increase the value of the soil, will increase the value of the loguers and, therefore, will be expelled from that district and, therefore, will be expelled small stores from those districts. And what we're going to have is a lot of dynamism, but we'll see that they're tanking small businesses, because they come franchises from other multinationals with more ability to reverse than these little traders. And these logics will give the city. To the logic band that supposes that there are traders – and now we'll talk about this – that when you ask them, they don't have the ability to pay more taxes, but when you ask them if this ability reverts exclusively to their district, they have the ability to pay taxes. And what will cause us is that we are still unable to generate minimally comprehensive municipal policies. If Passeig de Gràcia, its traders can pay from the butxaca lightning, cleanness, private security, mobility policies, they can do it for years that go well. This year is certainly exceptional for everyone. But what about Trinitat? Can the Trinitats do it? Can they do it with the same intensity? I think you're obviously not. And this will accentuate the urban inequalities that we are already experiencing in our cities, will strengthen lobbying processes, because, I'm sorry, if we have groups of traders who are privately dealing with public services, it will mean that by the end they are questioning municipal taxes at the lower end. And they will say, "If I serve my own servants, why should I take charge of municipal servants? And that'll happen and we'll see. And, on the other hand, as this is directed only by entities with a leisure life, what will happen in these districts is that their interests will be ahead of the rest of the other uses, that they see and that the other places that do not have economic activity. And they will be the ones who will direct the urban life of the uses of those districts. And I think that this is obvious, that it is encouraging and strengthening the dynamics of lobbying in our cities. Because in the end there will be a question. When it wants to create a free shopping centre, the question of the rest of the world will be a priority. Will private use be a priority, such as setting up a bar or making areas where there may have been economic activity, free-air entertainment, etc.? Where will parks and cross-road finding areas be priority? I think that's a phonetic element. And the third question, which is what it has to do with municipal governance. It is clear that municipal governance is a central element in this cycle. You proposed privatizing it and handing it over to the owner of economic activities. There are other models. In Germany, where urban nuclei are more concentrated in European cities than in North America, instead of promoting areas of economic promotion, they have promoted areas of promotion, where not only trade and business owners have a right to participation, but they have all the opportunities. And this allows these bar dynamization processes not to be directed only by owners with a life span, but throughout the city, and this governance does not only open up. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and with this I'm done – to the landlords, but to the whole citizenry. Look, I mean, we're tourist cities, we're commercial cities, we're cultural cities, we're cities that bring together a lot of different uses, but we're not Marina d'Or, it can't be that all floors are tourist apartments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.170.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.171.0	...and we are not a free shopping center, and therefore we need laws that reconcile all the uses and interests of the city and not that put some private uses forward...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.172.0	Mr. Congressman, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.173.0	...of the rest of the city.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.174.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.175.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.176.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the rest of the groups and subgroups to fix their position. And, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.177.0	Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, I got lost; I didn't know that I could do so much harm, this law. Ostres! The truth is that I was coming with a ghost a little bit like this, but the truth is that I'm completely finished now, after the honourable Member's intervention. Well, we're here to talk about this bill, and, first of all, I would say to the counselor, after his explanation, that well, that there's a couple of issues he's put forward and that, in principle, I would have my doubts respected. First of all, on the subject of the presentation, the truth is that, with all due respect, it seemed to me more like a burrocrat of Brussels than the business advisor of a region as pitiful, European, as ours. Why? Because if you came here to sell us..., and the vast majority of us are already practically convinced that this is important and that it is positive, the truth is that your sale of the bill was, the truth, quite flat, huh? , and evidence, therefore, some fears that I will probably discuss. The issue of urgency. The issue of urgency..., speaking of institutions or institutions that have come from fifty years ago, as you said very well, and that here in Spain in 2014 has already begun to speak and Europe has been settled a short time ago, so the truth is that the issue of urgency now, at the end of the legislature, looks more like something other than the urgency that comes to save the sector, because it will not be what you are simply saving the sector, or not just that. And I don't buy their liquidity ratio either. It is true that there is now a lot of liquidity and that, probably, therefore, a lot of this return to the markets or return to consumption once the pandemic issue was cleared. But it is true that there is an important element, that there will be a lot of people in the workforce, because, inevitably, therefore, there will be a very important strain of the economic crisis. And many of these resources will be used, therefore, to supplement the amount of money that they will no longer be charged for a long time. Therefore, there may be oceans of liquidity, but surely not all will go to stop consumption; as at least, to the consumption of which we can say, therefore, well, that it is not of first necessity. To talk about ownership of public space when we are talking about public-private collaboration, when we are talking about projects that claim to be the best in public space, which, for example, affect key elements such as the practical replacement of physical shopping for telematics – for example, the fashion sector, a 94.5_per_cent; the food, a 85_per_cent, and the milk, a 40_per_cent – and that these projects can help commercial axes to have tools to access digitalization in a more accessible way, thanks to the fact that they belong precisely to an APEU, it seems to me, as at the very least, they are. It's true that this project is up now, but it seems to us, so, well, that the urgency character, actually, is in front of other elements. The IDBs, as they have already described here, are easy to describe: they are delimited urban areas; their owners or economic agents pay a special tribute to the Assembly, the yields of which are intended completely to improve or supplement municipal services in this district; the owners or traders, grouped in associative form, co-decide with the Assembly on the fate of these foundations that the same association of owners and/or traders manages in a relative way. This proposal for a law can respond to one of the many requests in the sector. We have recently found ourselves with representative entities of the trade sector in Catalonia, and they have conveyed to us their deep concern for the sector. In August, we learned that sales of retail goods dropped a 9.3_per_cent and the employment index dropped a 3.5_per_cent. This resulted in the loss of 4,800 shops and 2,600 catering businesses alone during the month of August. Now it's in perill the season of Nadal. It will depend on it that many companies can get to the year that sees or that they will finally lower the Persians. And I tell them by my own experience that there is nothing more desolating for a entrepreneur who has left the stalls, the salvation, the concern for the workers to their care, the disagreements, the diumenges, the nights, the days, to pull forward a business, that we have to lower the blind. We're talking about a few months, and maybe a lot of waiting for the spring of 2021 is still too late. We're in time to avoid it, and the sector is proposing very absolutable things, above all, above all that we agree here and that our only objective is to give solutions in place of problems. We, from the beginning, have privileged to provide our help, our little degree of smile so that we have the broadest possible consensus before this pandemic and its effects on health and the economy. It is true that the Government has preferred to prioritise other issues as well. It has not led, because in the very fact that the government has not agreed on the essential issues, and the cracks between the government's parties have completely collapsed the decision making, and at a time when priority, as we have always repeated, has been to save lives and save economies, households and businesses. The government, on most occasions, has not been at the height of the situation of extreme gravity that we had. They have taken decisions without taking account of the rest of the social workers. We are still waiting for them to explain to us who will be their main lines of action, who will be the presuppositional changes. They'd rather go alone. During these last few months, I repeat, we have had contacts with different sectors, among them the trade sector. And the focus, in the trade sector, has focused on four important points: the reduction of administrative intervention, business times, digitisation and adaptation to the new forms of consumption, and, precisely, the EPAs. We must say that any proposal that improves any of these four concepts will allow the sector to gain in competitiveness and productivity, to ensure its survival as a model of success. To insist on the fact that business projects cannot be stuck in the jails of different administrations during months and months. I don't think I can surprise any of us. Especially in times when, because of the pandemic, they are more necessary than ever businesses and fill projects that can bring economic growth with the greatest possible speed. With regard to business hours, I'm just saying that, once again, there was a missed opportunity to arrive at a consensus solution in which most of the groups in this room and the sector had already agreed, and that only the lack of political will of the proposed group, Catalonia in Comú Pode, prevented it from reaching its parliamentary approval. The health crisis has exposed new forms of consumption that have much to do with the digitalisation of the sector. We have spoken many times that it is essential to encourage a change in the sector's enterprises in this sense, and that this does not mean abandoning physical presence, but rather that it must be a complementary model. I left by the end point the APEU point. On this point we have also found a broad consensus on its opportunity. Based on a model of public-private collaboration, it improves the productivity and competitiveness of trade in our towns and cities. It is a driving force behind economic activity, allowing municipal services to be improved or supplemented to the area where they apply; yes, it does not replace them. Catalonia has 947 municipalities, with little rural population. The majority of citizens, 95_per_cent, are concentrated in about three hundred municipalities of more than two thousand inhabitants, the majority in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, an area with almost 5_million people that concentrates more than 67_per_cent of the population of Catalonia; precisely in cities where trade is concentrated, providing vitality and feeling protagonist of the same definition of "city". The trade located in the city, the urban trade, is characteristic for its diversity of types and forms and commercial formats that coexist in areas of high concentration, giving place to an important intraformatted and interformatted competition. In the same area are independent establishments, branch chains, franchise chains, supermarkets, large warehouses, municipal markets, etcetera. These high concentrations stimulate the city and generate spaces of great entrepreneurial competence, giving place to interesting phenomena of cooperation, competitive cooperation. Given the combined number of competitors, urban trade must be decisively innovative and specialized, offering quality and serving with better levels of efficiency and efficiency. On the other hand, the price of llogers or locals is a barrier of entry for us to negotiate in the best commercial areas, where companies are usually implemented with greater economic capacity. Thus, the entry barriers through the real estate cost have given place to global commercial axes in a few commercial enterprises – branch chains or franchises – concentrate most of the business of an eix or commercial zone. Companies compete for the client but also compete for locations. APEUs can open the real estate market and allow the coexistence of alternative commercial locations to the considered prime. On this model, the main problems focus on the financing system and its way of managing its returns. On finance, you will need to see how it can fit into the current tax legislation and see which form is the most appropriate to ensure it. For example, to avoid one of the model's perils, the free rider, who takes advantage of the model without having to collaborate in its maintenance. It will also be necessary to see the definitive form of management with private finance models, which should not imply a replacement of public services that is already prestined. It is intended to offer additional services, of added value or which did not exist before, through the use of private resources coming from the trading community and which do not entail a cost to the city. Also, which will be the organizational figure on which it was managed, which will have to be flexible and which, in any case, must allow proactive coordination between all the partners and their proper distribution of functions and responsibilities. In this sense, let us hope that he is given the green light of his parliamentary process and that those most controversial points – which there are, sense of doubt – can be debated and improved in parliamentary committee; points like the inclusion in this law of the theme of the EAP, which precisely to be a topic important enough to be treated independently..., here he instills himself, is not exactly the reason why. We're presenting a lot of things to correct proving to the point that they haven't done their job correctly. In any case, for all this, we will support the handling of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.179.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor Tremosa. Members and Members of Parliament, well, today we are debating the APEU Bill, a draft law that seeks to create an instrument that will improve the economic development of our municipalities through the competitiveness of the urban economic fabric; not only commercial, because it is certainly also incorporating that of industrial polygons – and, therefore, the one that has been named the PAE – and, therefore, we understand that it is a law that tries to encompass various things, with a formula that I like to be more public-private than cooperative, because at the end we ask for the cooperation of the different sectors with which we conform this APEU and above all with the Administration, which is at the end that it has competence. Who has the competence to promote economic and commercial activity in the municipalities are the same joint ventures, and, therefore, it is essential that joint ventures, local administration, as well as commercial associations and the same owners cooperate to add, to complement the services in that concrete urban environment. It will be important to understand that they do not come to supplement the work they do, the task, the functions of local administrations, but rather to complement them with this added value of cooperation. I have to tell him, counselor, that this is a long-awaited bill of law, I suppose they've explained it to the council. The Trade, Service and Fire Act, approved on August 1, 2017, incorporated a third additional provision that said that the government had to approve this bill. Thirty-six have passed, but, well, welcome, isn't it? It was a theme that we incorporated the Socialist Group, which is true that many years ago we defended this instrument as an aspect to be able to improve this competitiveness; we did so at that time, but the year 2013 we had already presented here a proposal for law that did not bring forward among other things – and curiously – because the Convergence and Union Group voted against it at that time. Now the times are changing, it's true, and it's fine, so we're all rectifying our positions. In fact, I was director of Economic Promotion in Mataró in 2008-2009, and already with the government of the tripartite had promoted the APEUs. We, for example, had set aside two phases of analysis of what could be the most interesting urban environment to set aside these types of instruments. So this is a subject that the Socialists have been working on for many years now and I think we can find – let's hope, too, despite the criticisms made by Congressman Ferro – a text that will satisfy us all, right? I also have to say that, at this time, especially since the Barcelona Assembly..., and this mayor and mayor Jaume Collboni has done, he has been working a lot; there are some concrete experiences in the previous term, in the Born, in the Born, in the Barri del Born, and in Sant Andreu, where he has also tried to work to see how these APEUs can work. Even so, we met in Madrid, when there was then the Popular Party, to see a very complex element – it is certainly the most complex of this law – which is how it contributes economically to these APEUs; if these contributions really have to be binding, as is the case with this obligation. And I think, therefore, that in this sense it has also gone forward to see what it could be, in newspapers and in different sessions, the best instruments, and, therefore, also to help this debate that today, and the text that we will obviously have to work on, because, as you also said, it is a document that we hope among all of us can improve, right? And it is true that this is a subject that we have spoken about repeatedly, and I also want to remember the debates that we held in 2017 when we approved that law. They were already talking about the crisis situation of trade, which dates back to the year 2008, and it's not new either. He hasn't just overcome the crisis, the trade, and now Covid has arrived. And so, the kick feels strong and some data, so we're worried, right? For example, now you see... data published for Pimec a few days ago say that 65,4_percent of the trades were closed for the state of alarm, that 56,3_percent of the trades say they were sold 75_per_per_cent in relation to the previous year– or that they are very important figures–, and that, for example, in this analysis of these months, 66,8_percent of the trades say that telematics media are more important to the consumer, right? Obviously, we probably already knew that. In fact, I remember when we were discussing the Law of Commerce, you serve and fire, which at that time the government incorporated a line on electronic commerce, right? And the groups – at least mine – we said: « Home, how can it be? Electronic commerce is already here, it's a challenge we have. Obviously the trade will change for many aspects, for changes in consumption habits, for the new online platforms, but for many aspects that we already have, right? And we were unable to face it at that time. And today obviously, with the figures we have after the Covid, on the internet – or the purchase on the internet – has increased a 48_per_cent in March, huh? in the first month, that maybe there was not enough confidence, for example, to buy food..., so it grew a 48_per_cent, tripled that of the previous year. That's to say that there really are things that we knew would come and that, unfortunately, the Covid pandemic has accentuated in an even more important way. I don't know if, at this point in time, we have the APEUs or have faced the back of the online trade, we would be in another situation. The case is that the trade is patenting a lot, it's been patenting for many years now, and probably this instrument could help. He won't save..., he won't save the world, obviously – so good! ; what we would need is a vaccine, probably, that you help us deal with the Covid – but within the policies that we could do to improve the situation of trade, we clearly believe that it is one of them. So, it's true, it's a bill that goes up late, but we think it's more necessary today than ever. We think we need some sort of agreement. We're at a time when there's a certain concertation and you don't look at chicken vole or chicken vole visions, so we'd like to improve the texts among all of us. We would like to say a few things that, reading the text and with the time we work on it, we pose in question, and that at least we would like to reflect on it and discuss them with parliamentary groups, right? One is when we talk about the premises, right? It's about the premises, sentient buildings or some of the buildings, ground floor buildings... I think it's important to make a little bit of that happen, because they're not the same sentient buildings as the plants lower; in the buildings there may be a mix of uses and, therefore, we think it's worth it that this can be done. Then we don't talk about the entourage. I mean, one thing is public space, isn't it? But there could also be public equipment in the APEUs. Obviously, there are wanted, there can be parks, gardens, areas that beyond trade also have an implication in these areas. It's about the APEU initiations, isn't it? And it can be the addition, it can be a business association that carries five years working in the area or it can be 25_percent of the right holders to possession. We think it's a little, 25_per_cent. It is true that it is then said: "Well, to approve the APEU you need 40. We still think it's a little bit. That is to say, with the commitments and cooperation that we are asking of that sector it seems that a 40_per_cent is a little – a 40_per_cent seems a little bit to us. We believe that it should be higher, and then we do not find ourselves in trouble and that we do not find it together if the initiative has not been its; that we already believe that much better than it is in the commercial sector than in the joint. It would also be nice to make some things clear. The initiative must be of the assembly, of whom? Full? From the board of governors? I mean, we're gonna have to work some things out here, too. When we talk about the functions, exactly the same, I'd say it before, wouldn't I? The APEU should have functions that complement the municipal task, not that it wants to replace it, and therefore I believe that the verbs "promote or "propose are correct, but we must try that this, therefore, does not serve because we end up repeating functions of the APEU, of this managing entity that will have to the APEU, together with the same. Also when it comes to the final approval of the APEU, which must be done in an assembly, it is not clear which of the assembly. I think it would be good to make it clear that it should be the ple, that it is the most representative, and that I think we should leave it very specific. And also when we talk about managing entity, which is who will manage this APEU, I think that professionalization needs to be more concrete; it says: "that it is professionalized. Well, what's that supposed to mean, which characteristics... we think this is also very important. And last but not least, the most complex issue of solving, which is the issue of financing, isn't it? « Establish a stable and balanced financing system, how is it established? This is about a non-tax economic counter-performance. We could agree with that. There are other countries that have used, for example, raids on the IBI, i.e., already existing figures. I think this should be analyzed a little more, we should work better. I don't know if we'd have to settle with comparison experts, but I think this is a relevancy. And, lastly, we, who agree and have always defended..., and in our 2013 proposal we are already talking about industrial policies, we believe that it does not deepen sufficiently; it remains like a very secondary thing in the EPAs. We believe that we have a challenge with industrial polygons, with which they really compete, that all industrial polygons are not solar or naus, that we have industrial polygons with a great mix of uses. For example, 22 @, but it could be the example of Mataró, the Rengle, and, therefore, we should also contemplate them, because both of them need to improve their competitiveness to generate jobs and wealth in the territory. And, therefore, I think it has many reps, this law. We have always been in favour of the instrument, but let's hope that we can improve it and seek the necessary consensus during the period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.180.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.181.0	Good afternoon. We could absolutely subscribe to the intervention made by Mr Lucas Ferro as the spokesman for Catalonia in Comú Pode. For us, one of the best interventions we've ever heard in this House, and we want to recognize it that way, with one exception – and we ratify, moreover, in its contents, because we don't have two minutes, but five minutes –: that Mr. Lucas Ferro was a curus and said that between the got half empty and half full, therefore, they could be placed on a vision that was neither one nor the other; we see it absolutely empty, absolutely empty for what this law proposal means, and we will explain it. Mirin, we talked about it before with the distinguished Member of the Iron House. This read to this parliamentary subgroup doesn't even like it from the first page, which is the expression of motive, for which it says and is true, and for which it says and is false. Let's start with what you say and that, for us, it's not true – to try not to be hurtful –: expressed that you also try to avoid displacements. So look, displacements are produced because there is a drop in demand, they are produced because we have labor regulations that make it easy at low cost to eat and shut down business, and they are produced because there is a reality of speculative economy that on occasions so many companies to requalify land and because it gets greater benefits. If we look at this proposition of the law, we will see that there is no one of its contents that can go to combat this. And the first two subjects, obviously, are not the competence of our country, unfortunately, but the third, which could be to take advantage of this law to combat urban speculation, especially for what it does to industrial polygons that are found in urban areas, so we have nothing to do with it. And, look, this isn't a theory, let's go to practice. And we have an example of today's work in our country: Alfisa, Penedès, a hundred workers with a productive activity that can continue, with customers who say they want to continue, and for a topic of global confrontations between their main partner – capitalist principal partner – and the Renault company, they decide to let go of the workers and the workers of the company, who will not continue, stop paying salaries, let go of giving effective occupation. What will be the reality with this law that will solve this? , which will be a business lock-up – yes, if you from this Parliament and if you from the Government of the Generality of Catalonia do not have politics, because here there could be a business continuity. Certainly, a strong hug to the workers and workers of Alfisa, who are locked to the company in their job turns even though they have no effective occupation and are not paying them. So with this, we won't have a solution. But we would also like to address one of the other questions that are raised, and we would like to recognize that as at least it is true, what also says the motius statement: page 19 and page 21 of the Law – motius statement. Tell us clearly why the law will be needed and why the law is wanted. For a band, you tell us that what you want is that you can manage in a private way what until now are elements that can only be given in public management – page 19. And page 21 tells us that it wants to eliminate administrative procedures, which we are guaranteed. And, therefore, we want to recognize that the same thing you say. But, look, we're also worried that he went to sort out the IDB model, because we have to go to the story of what they meant. And what they have meant – and we could go to New York and we could go to Los Angeles – is how a city is cream, how it is expelled what it saw in certain barrels, as not Roman small business, is outside small business and big businesses settle in to do commercial activities. This is the reality of the IDBs in the history of the past forty years, having or not had that name forty years ago. We could ask the U.S. Progressives or the U.S. Unions what they think. We'd know what the answer would be. But at the same time..., and the ugly advisor refers, Mr. Tremosa, to the fact that there is no supplantation of municipal power here as to ownership. So, look, the only thing we're asking you to do is explain to us Article 33 of the Law, aside from, b, c and d, and you answer me who will be able to make firefighters, who will be able to make private security, who will control even all the electrical installations... It's what the Law says, not what we interpret. And then there's a transfer to the group of progressive and sovereign groups, from the PSC to Junts per Cat passing through Esquerra. We think there will be Members who will not agree with this law. This is a trajectory of the minimum expression of sovereignty and democracy from public power to private power, and that is what this law means. And, therefore, even we withdraw them, to groups that are said to be sovereignists, that speak day by day also of independence and sovereignty and that here they are doing a management of the sovereignty of the country to private enterprises. And the last one, which is no less. So they're moving forward not only the Socialist Group a few years ago in the presentation of this law, but the People's Group, at Congress level, we were already talking not only about the APEUs but about the IDBs. And, therefore, welcome follow the recognition of the performance of neoliberalism in this Parliament through a counselor we hope will not deny this condition that, moreover, has never been met. Welcome as a drama for popular and working classes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.183.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, in the historic battle between small trade and big trade we have always been supporters and we have always defended that the best we could do was not try to limit the creation of commercial establishments or large commercial establishments, but that what was to be done was to take intense measures to promote small trade, urban trade. And Mr. Ferro has quoted an expression that he does not like – we do – which is what we can't do from the city's free shopping centers. So yes, I think that's the example. We would certainly like to see the cities, the commerce of the cities, the urban trade in an environment that could have this assimilation to a shopping centre, which certainly does not have to be a very rare thing when the large shopping centres that are being built are making themselves with urban configurations – and some are not coming very close. And it must be for something – it must be for something. Therefore, man, that better than trying to boost the urban trade with an important and determined promotion action in these circles to give support to the trade. And this has two responsible administrations: on the one hand, the Government of the Generality; on the other hand, also the joint ventures. Therefore, the model that is proposed in this bill is a model that we can share– we can share. That is why, precisely, because we share philosophy, we have not presented to the whole. Now, there are things that we don't like, and so let's hope that these things that we don't like can change. And I don't list a few that I think are important. The first question. Mr. Ferro said: "This is the privatization of urban space. I see it differently, I see it another way. I see that... or the main risk I see at this is that it is intended to carry responsibilities that are public to the private sphere, which is different from privatization. Yeah. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it's different from privatization. Well, then, let's get to the bottom of it. Let's see the functions that these entities have. And, of course, it is that only reading the first of the functions, Article 5.2, the first, apart from, "enhanced actions of the surrounding city. Listen'm, no. The better performance of the city is a municipal competence and, therefore, it must be the public administrations that carry out these functions. We can talk about many other functions; another thing that will happen – and I don't know if I'm expressly looking for the bill, but I'm sure Mr. Ferro will be delighted, or like his Barcelona companies at least – if it's to be lit up to boost trade in certain times of the year, is a way for the Assembly to give itself the responsibility over and put responsibility to trade, right? So we want to make that clear. These entities should not be used to derive public responsibilities from a private entity. Second question. I don't have a lot of time, and so I'm going to get away with some example that I wanted to set. But yes, graphically– yes, graphically– say them: I don't want to be a member of a club to be forced to join the 20_per_cent of a collection, or less than the 20_per_cent of a collection. And the law is obliged to take part in and pay the share of this club for the group of members of a given area, even though it only decides less than 20_per_cent– less than 20_per_cent of the members. Listen, this isn't a waste. But it is that, besides, it is possible to give another circumstance, that the initiative of creating this club does not follow neither of the members, but that it is the same together that I decide« I will create this club and, with less than 20_percent votes, force the conjunction of a given area to form part of the club and, more than that, to pay. Ah, and if someone wants to extinguish it, they can only do the same thing together; they can't even do the club members themselves. I'm done. Yes, it's true that it's a reference to tax aid, but what we don't like, because it's no use, it's that it's about tax aid as powerful, not imperial.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.184.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.185.0	I just got it right away, President. It is an escalation that, depending on the fiscal effort of the owners and the trades, they have right to some help. Maybe. That's no use at all. It's either empire or this doesn't carry anything at all. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.186.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobig has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.187.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, well, I would also like to say hello to the Director General of Commerce, who I am convinced is following us because of her interest in the subject matter. And I would also like to record for the different advisors who have had some responsibility in the course of time, so, if not, in the preparation of this bill. And in this case, then, I would like to remind Councillor Baiget; also, in this case, Councillor Chacón, who is signing in this case the bill; the same Councillor Tremosa, who is who defended it today, and I will obviate Councillor Vila, among other circumstances, because I do not know that you make any substantial contribution to this bill. He was also wearing a series of notes to talk about the subject, but I think that in the course of the debate they were already open for melons to try to address some inaccuracies that seemed to me to detect in some of the interventions and that, to the extent possible, I will try to bring light, if not that I was wrong, right? In any case, from our point of view, when we deal with this legislative initiative we are dealing with a certain concern as we are talking, therefore, about an intervention in a public space and..., that I think we have to be quite curious – I think that some of the spokespersons who have preceded me have exposed it –, man, that we can't fall into the wrong of allowing these spaces to be privatized and that, therefore, I no longer belong to the collectivity of residents in a municipality and that they come to form part only or be the object of the interest, in this case, of individuals or associations that have only a desire to make an economic profit, therefore, of the management of this area. This fear seems to me that in any case it has to be modulated by the fact that the same law foresees a major intervention by the municipal administrations. And from this point of view, we have a certain suspicion that we see in some of the groups that they respect the intervention of the assemblies. Before Mrs Romero raised the question, she respected who was to approve this project in this case. And responsibility always comes, as the law makes clear, in the plethora of the assembly, huh? And it is spelled out literally in Article 12.1. But I believe that the responsibility of the assembly should not only be to veto this agreement which is subject to the approval of the plenary, but, in the process, therefore, of all this project, to modulate it respecting the initial layout of that which the promoter, if not that it is the same assembly, because I obeyed the principles, as I said before, of the interests of the collective, right? I also listened to something else that seemed to me to be imprecise. We were told by Congressman Ferro that, man, this gave power to the great tenors, because, of course, he established the right to the owners. And it's not like that. The law he's talking about is the right holders of possession. The right to possession which he holds, in this case, therefore, is the owner or the lease, eh? And, therefore, not the fact of having the Sunday title of all these buildings implies that they are first, or that they are driven, or that they are interested in them. It can probably be that there's a person or a trader, it can also be a chain, logically, that's a tenant, huh? in this case of a building, which has access to the public street, and it has the interest, therefore, to form part of this group of entrepreneurs which promotes, in this case, the constitution of this APEU. But, in any case, for a lot of private interest that exists in the promotion, already from business to individual title, already from associations, already from groups, the last word, I insist, always hold the assembly. And I understand that this is going to be the last word, and I insist on it again, too, as I understand that you obey public interest and not a pure interest, huh? As could be the case. And, in this case, he would also have to defeat what he has explained to us – and now he will no longer accompany us – the Aragonese deputy when he has done the functions of the management entities of the APEU, in this case, of the areas of urban economic promotion. And Article 33 doesn't refer as much to urban economic promotion areas as to the PAEs, huh? , that it is necessary to make a distinction with respect to the functions of each of them. And of the four apartments he has left, said the apartment to, the apartment b, the apartment c, the apartment d, only the one talking about the common elements of public ownership. The other three speak of private elements. Therefore, the affectation of public elements, that is, those belonging to the collectivity, are not affected in any case by the PAES. And, in short, what is foreseen in this article 33 is something that in urban law I think no one disgusts, eh? , which is the fact that there is, for example, the repartition, or the mode of basic compensation in the repartition mode, which is to allocate the costs among the owners of an urban activity. In this case we are talking about an action that is not urbanistic; it is an action of all the rules of action that are foreseen, that can be of dynamism and can also be of intervention in the public space, but I insist, with all the preventions, always under the protection of the local administration, that it is who has to approve the project and who has to age in the course of its application because it is not deviated, and again insisted, from the public interest. I, too, this deal, this deal, this deal, it's not forever. It is planted for three or five years, with the possibility of extension, and this extension always has to be expressed for a term of four years. Therefore, from our point of view, with all the preventions and understandings, as the Councillor has said, in this case, that approval of this rule is urgent..., not as much as expressed by the Councillor, that we disagree there in a certain way, because it can be a short measure to revitalize trade, but because we understand that we are very late; we are very late, and it would be convenient for us, therefore, that we should not accumulate any more. It has been questioned for the deputy of Ciutadans whether the urgency was to solve the problem of trade or it was a political urgency, I understand, to be able to approve a project before the end of the legislature. Well, everybody's going to do their readings, but I don't think it's the delay because the legislature's over, it's the delay because the legislature's over, an electoral process has to be done, a new government has to be chosen, and we all know that all these processes are spreading a lot. From this point of view, this parliamentary group understands that perhaps there are questions that are perfectable, because any text is perfectable. We show all the predisposition to make it happen, so this project, this bill, and that, therefore, it can come into force before the legislature comes to an end. And we do this because I think it addresses one of the important challenges that has always existed in trade: the complaint that has been repeated many times, of traders, of groups and associations of traders, of unions, insisting on the Administration that it is not enough in its scope to look to boost the trade, especially the trade of proximity, that it is patenting terrible shots. The news is that Barcelona's proximity trade has already closed 6_per_cent, in this case, of the establishments; it is expected that before the end of the year, 20_per_cent may be, if the situation is not reversed, 20_per_cent. And it's not a local theme. The other day we also saw it in El País; made an infographic, therefore, of all the trade of the Gran Via, one of the main lives of Madrid. If I don't remember correctly, the data was that up to 35 percent of the establishments, of the publicly accessible premises there had to close the doors to the situation. Home, we believe that any measure we can take to help, therefore, is important. And in this case, the deputy of the PP spoke of the fact that he understood that the majority who were required to do so was small and that he understood that he wanted to join many more traders or entrepreneurs or right holders in this project than were established. And I think there's a mistake: to promote in this case the APEU has to be a 25_per_cent, but for its approval it has to be a 40_per_cent. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; 40_percent of the headlines and 40_percent of the surface they integrate. If that's not the case, I'll rectify it, Mr. Rodriguez, but I understand that. That's what the text says. And, therefore, I understand that in this case there is a misconception. For us it is completely democratic that a collective voluntarily decides to promote an initiative of this type, plant it in the local administration and that this process is procedurally carried out because it is approved for whom it represents in this case, therefore, the people, right? , at the municipal level, which is the municipal plethora, which will take the final decision whether or not it is appropriate for the interest not only of local trade but of all the citizens of that municipality. And so, I insist, we only see bounds as, logically, we take care that the original object is not diverted, that it is the promotion of trade, and that we end up again, and I insist on an argument that I started and did not finish before, with the fact that all these requests to the joints by commercial establishments, by shops, that it actually intervene in your space, not in empty words, not with a voluntary contribution from some of them, but there are ways in which the totality of those interested in that area can intervene, without being able to think about the scale, as always, of the efforts of some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elsa Artadi has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.189.0	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor Tremosa. I want to take the opportunity to begin by greeting the deputy of our group, Teresa Pallarès, who she can't bring today the law, but that..., I'm here, but we'll bring her between the two. And thank you for the help she will give us, who has a lot of expertise. I'd like to start... and I couldn't be, either, Deputy of Ciutadans. I already understand that you are more accustomed to writings, posters and numbers, and when a counselor sees them rigorously and solidly, so it is enough, and you have to comment on seeing that this is a lack of awareness of what should be the rigour of all the politicians and representatives of the citizenry. We have heard it many times, and we repeat it, because we certainly believe it, that trade is life on the street, it is creation of wealth, of places of work, of community; it is security, in many cases; it is cities, towns, more people, more friendly, more social. But because this continues so we need real action; we can't just have speeches that after the time of truth continue to empty our city. And in the case of Barcelona we see it in a very clear way, for some interventions that are not being made. And today precisely, therefore, from the Department of Enterprise there is a real action, from the Government of the Generality there is a real action. We have a model that has been successful, with some centers in the city, of our peoples, that are modeled for trade, with some commercial centers in the open that already exist, they will not depend on this law, but precisely the law is to maintain it, with a commercial association, with a civil society involved that we want to follow it, that they are involved not only in improving its economic activity, but also the barrels and cities that you serve. But we have, and we have said in some interventions, therefore, a sector of trade that faces challenges, that of electronic commerce, which, together, does not? , to a lack of hourly reform that we still run, it makes a competition to the small trade, to the traditional, to the face, that will now be present, also, in this format; great surfaces that make a competition due to the scale that they have and to the advantages that this gives them, and that, therefore, we need to strengthen our commercial axes in order to avoid the buiding of the centers, and great marks that also make a competition that ends with a traditional establishment, with an emblematic establishment, and that, in the end, because this already happens now, they end up making some homogeneous cities that you don't know if you are in a carriage from Barcelona, Girona or any other European city. And, therefore, we need to keep and keep this character close. And now these are precisely these great brands, these outside companies that have this great ability that are not contributing to the commercial axes. And one of the things that this law is trying to do, that we hope it will go ahead and that it will go ahead as quickly as possible, is precisely to avoid this: the free rider who is making the great brands, who does not contribute to the axes and who is carrying on the little one, on which he is associated, on the Catalan civil society, therefore, making better around him. We also talked about the impact of the pandemic – I won't be enlarged – and, really, the trade that you say to us, when are we talking about it? So they tell us that help is important, but that they are more important, and that they tell us: "We already know what needs to be done, we already know... What we need is that you let us work, that you let us, therefore, implement the best we want. There's always been a need for this law, and it's certainly urgent. And, therefore, also place all groups, with all the best and with all that we need to work to really adapt the law to the whole territory... so approve it as quickly as possible. There's a broad consensus between the commercial sector, amplissim, and years ago, to pull this law forward. For me, you have two elements that are fundamental and that represent very well the character of the company and the Catalan trade. For a band, one of the important elements of this law is to promote the most direct relationship between the trader and the local administration. Not always, and not all the time, has worked well, it has been very fluid; it has not always felt well supported by the local administration, nor has the whole trade sector. And, precisely, Barcelona is the great example that the trade sector has been complaining about a constant abandonment, and now even more during the pandemic. And the other element that is important and that is nuclear in this law is to promote, allow, propitiate solutions that come from low to high, that come from the base, take over associations, make them more competitive make them stronger, professionalizing them, and take advantage of what is knowledge, what is the experience to promote which interventions and what actions are the best for their activity, but also for the time being, because the environment and activity cannot be separated, therefore, taking over what is the same sector to fight for its future. And, therefore, these two elements, both that which is the dialect as the leader of proposing initiatives, for us is the best way to hear public-private collaboration, is the best way to hear how it is to work folds, how it is to work trustingly with each other. And there really is a lot of other models left, which some can defend, of impossibility, to decide from the dispatches for policies, for functioning or for managers, which, literally, have never raised a blind to their life, and, therefore, gives power to those who know how to do things. With the protection of local administrations, absolutely, but propitiating this dialect, propitiating the shower of ideas, propitiating the actions coming from below. And this is to think about the organization of events, to promote different areas, to attract investments, to social responsibility issues, to how we manage the empty spaces of the streets – which are a problem, and very big and every time more – in decoration, lighting, in rehabilitation issues, in promotion of environmental measures that wander beyond what the law makes. All these are things that can be done directly from the private, from the private aggregates, that are not necessarily the competition of the joints, and that are beneficial for the same activity and also for its surroundings. Diversity must be put in value as a positive thing, as it makes us unique, as it makes us different, as it makes us go in one barrel, tomorrow in another and tomorrow in another city, as it makes us different and does not make us the same as everything else. We also need the great operators to work together. Now, that doesn't happen. Public contributions are limited, and they cannot hold trade associations living from resources that are scarce. We need this voluntary association that has worked for years now to guarantee the future, and that everyone who benefits also contributes to it. And then we haven't talked about the dialogue, the relationship, and that in terms of better mobility, accessibility, including security or urban planning, there's a dialogue. They don't impose it, they don't mark it, they don't rule it, because that already marks the law, they don't take it from the board, but they have the ability to interact and explain and propose measures that benefit everyone. It's about listening to the trader, detecting problems and what solutions we propose. Therefore, thank that it is pulled forward; hope that we can deal with it in a quick way. We understand that this is an opportunity for the Catalan commercial fabric, which today is good news. They surprise us... or they don't surprise us, I don't know. I believe that today they have seized the best tradition of Mr Coscubiela from not everything, from a rebroadcast to a measure that should be part, not the only, but part of the future of trade in our home. I don't know why they don't like it... it's that I've tried to understand his explanation well, but I don't know why they don't like it, when the businesses, the small business, the peppers, the majority of the store that we have in Catalonia associate, work folded and fought together, and not one against the other, to push their future forward. I suppose living in Barcelona and working in Barcelona shouldn't take me so long, because we're used to it that from their party, so it's more dedicated to controlling than not trusting; it's more dedicated to imposing and not dialogue; it's more dedicated to punishing and not promoting economic activity. The trade sector felt very lonely, because, literally, day and day too, they left empty boxes when there was a debate about the trade, and this empty one is still there today. We are concerned, because, as the Councillor explained – and some of the other Members and Members have referred to it – he goes through the leadership of the municipalities that APEUs are a reality. And today, let's start dealing with this law, which is good news for the country, it may not be for Barcelona, because without the complicity of the Assembly, this will remain on paper. Therefore, also an appeal to Congresswoman Alicia Romero and her party to work folds on this issue. You're there, you're talking about APPEAs as an opportunity, you're committed to them, but you're also committed to them. And so, what use is there to something, that it's not like all the other issues that we have in the city of Barcelona, that there are some that run and others that run. We need this to go forward, and therefore we need that on this subject, as in the least on this subject, imposing the criteria, imposing the future of the sector. Des de Junts per Catalunya re-express our support for the commercial sector throughout the country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.191.0	For contradictions, to Mr. Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.192.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.193.0	Thank you. Mr Orobtig, we already know that in the ballots that you organise only consider that it is possible to vote that yes, but in the serious ballots there are other options: there is yes, no, the vote in white, the vote in null. Therefore, with a participation of 40_per_cent that a project of these won by a simple majority means that with less than 20_per_cent of the votes is obliged to the 100_per_cent of the cents to pay the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.194.0	Thank you, Congressman. He said that once the debate was over, we would vote for the whole speech presented together with the rest of the points of today and that will be after the point of the order of the day, to which we then pass. [[Law proposal on forced disappearance of minors in Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00061/12]] This is the totality debate of the proposed law on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia and, in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules, we will start this totality debate with the intervention of one representative of each group and sub-group of parliamentarians for a maximum of two minutes per group and five minutes corresponding to the sub-group. In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.195.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, today we are debating the law's proposal on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia. A law proposal signed in July 2019 for all parliamentary opposition groups against various civil society entities and which has not been signed by the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Republic. It's not a pioneer law proposal, there's a precedent for the Autonomous Community of Canaries. The Parliament of Canàries approved, on April 25, 2019, just over a year ago, the Law 13/2019 on the smallest thefts to the Autonomous Community of Canàries. Therefore, the proposition of law that today will pass the totality process is not pioneering, or perhaps so, because it is very similar to that which was presented to the Parliament of Canàries on November 13, 2018, almost the same law. The bill we are dealing with today was signed in July 2019 for the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans, Socialists and Units for Progress, Catalonia in Comú Pode and for the parliamentary subgroups of the CUP - Crida Constituent and Popular Party of Catalonia. Finally, today, almost fifteen months after being presented, is given the first step because it can become a law of the Parliament of Catalonia, without the explicit support of the parliamentary groups of the formations that conform the Government of the Generality, at least until now. Neither the Junts Group for Catalonia nor the Republic, it is to say, nor the remains of the shipwreck of Convergence nor the Republican Left of Catalonia gave explicit initial support to this initiative, to this proposition of law. It is worth saying that neither have they presented a report to the whole; nor have they opposed it. This proposal of law is the result of the impulse of civil society, of entities that, over the years, have gathered the demand of the affected, of the victims of the forced disappearance of minors that has occurred during decades since the beginning of the Franco dictatorship in Spain. We're talking about thousands of victims of these crimes that the Franco regime wanted to disguise as legal. Because this drama that they have experienced and still see today many victims of the forced disappearance of minors, as it has also happened with other disappearances of the Civil War and the dictatorship, goes a long way. This criminal activity, covered by the Franco regime of apparent legality, began in 1940, 80 years ago, twice as long as the Franco dictatorship that was completely liquidated at the end of the 1970s, more than 40 years ago. And we're talking about a big issue, which has involved a violation of human rights that apparently carried out with impunity during the Franco dictatorship, especially up to the beginning of the sixties decade and that even though it was intended to make believe that it was motivated by charity, it was clearly an added gain for thousands of women who suffered the repression of the Francoism. But we are also talking about the thousands of babies and children who have been torn down from the arms of their seas in the hands of disillusionment who have used their position in certain institutions, whether health or religious, to profit from the trafficking of minors, a criminal and clandestine practice that has continued active after the recovery of democracy and that have been the same victims, who have unearthed it. So we are talking about very hard crimes, which should have been answered long before the governments, the governments of Spain and the autonomous governments. Since the restoration of democracy, there has been plenty of time to put a thread to the needle and present, for example to the General Courts, a bill on the enforced disappearance of minors in Spain. Since the success of Spain's governments, there has not been enough sensitivity to what it is and it represents to have thousands of victims of this appalling practice of stealing babies and children from their seas, because from a totalitarian rule that we all condemn and also by people who have maintained criminal conduct over time it was decided who and under what conditions could protect these minors. I repeat, this proposal for law has been put forward by groups that do not support the government, perhaps if we exempt the municipalities and the CUP that, from time to time, give it away. Therefore, it is not a draft law of the Government that, from time to time, self-proclaims no longer republic, but republic itself. It is, again, a proposal of law presented for the opposition, more or less firm, gathering the vindication of the same victims of the robber and of the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia, and I dare say, to the rest of Spain. I have already commented that a law very similar to this one we are proposing today has been approved by the Canaries Parliament in April of last year. Certainly, with a very different processing process than is followed by this law proposal to the Parliament of Catalonia, but it is not necessary to go into the procedural differences now. Legislation on this issue is necessary. There has been very little sensitivity to this lack of effective legal and court protection on the part of all governments: central and autonomous. The legislator has long left these victims of Francoist repression, of one gang, and of the criminal activity of certain unscrupulous people, of the other. And when the legislator says I do not refer only to the legislature, the members of the General Courts or of the respective autonomous parliaments, as is the case with this Parliament. I am also referring to the corresponding governments, because, in this question, the government has taken the legislative initiative, the will to approve and present a draft law that gives an answer to what the victims of theft and forced disappearance of minors ask of us. Neither the Government of Spain, led by the Governments of Spain at the length of the fourteen legislatures since the restoration of democracy, nor the Government of the Government of Catalonia in the twelve legislatures since the adoption of the 1979 Statute have had the will or sensibility to approve and present a bill on the disappearance of minors. The Parliament of Canàries has moved forward, although it has probably recovered the demand from the victims at the same time as the Parliament of Catalonia and perhaps the Congress of Deputies. In the opinion of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, it is necessary to legislate on this issue and to do so from the point of view of legislative technology and, above all, from the point of view of legal certainty. The need for victims affected by the disappearance of minors from the Franco dictatorship is a good law which gives legal certainty and which, with the effective protection of the State, is to say, of all the public administrations, including that of the Generality, puts at its disposal the resources necessary for the recognition and effectiveness of the right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. I sincerely believe that all members of this Parliament agree with the need for this legislation. I also believe that this should have been a law of the Government, a bill of law that followed all the precepts, to the Executive Council of the Generality, first, and in this Parliament, later. There has been a missed opportunity for the government, and the groups that support the government: Together for Catalonia and Esquerra, who did not sign this bill, should not have waited for the current legislature to be liquidated to put it to the full debate in the plenary. A lost opportunity that will now make us run, with the risk that this law will ultimately – if it ends as it seems, because there is no more reason, dealing with the procedure of extraordinary urgency – it does not just be the good law that needs victims of the disappearance of minors in Catalonia. In any case, this very proposal of law has been presented to the Congress of Deputies and could be dealt with quickly in the General Courts. So good is it, because I've already told you that this law, which is very important and complex to do a curative processing, must be a good law that gives the proper answer to the victims' requests and that the women also legal certainty in defending their right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. From the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans we believe that it is there, at the Congress of Deputies, where it is urgent and necessary that it is transmitted, because this is the best guarantee of legal certainty for victims. I am therefore calling on all parliamentary groups to also gather in the General Courts, because it is a law that is just and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word deputy Rafael Bruguera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.197.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies, president, councillor. I want to begin by sending a cordial greeting to all people who follow this debate through the Parliament Channel and who, for reasons of reason, cannot be present today at the guest gallery. Especially, the friends and friends of the Observer of the Forced Disappearance of Minors, who are, in reality, the anime and the true drivers of this law proposal – let's make it clear. I thank them for their perseverance, their good work, and I congratulate them on the recognition they received last month in the Ones Mediterrània 2020 Awards, as I also want to congratulate them on the telematical agreement signed at the beginning of the pandemic with the University of Barcelona for the expansion of their DNA database in which the observer has been working for a few years since 2017, and which already counts – and is no less – with more than eight hundred registers introduced. The presentation of this proposition of law is, to a good extent, the result of the government's inaction in this matter. I have said it voluntarily, I have said it voluntarily, I do not say it as a councillor, I say it as a government. This is confirmed by the parliamentary precedents. On March 16, 2017 – we are talking about the last parliamentary term – more than three years ago, the Committee on External Affairs and Cooperation, Institutional Relations and Transparency adopted a resolution in which it expressed the will to create a working group to study the case in question. This working group, indeed, was formed on the 20th of April next, if the experts' appearances were to be substantial, but it was not possible to approve the report for the end of the parliamentary term. At the end of a year and a half, concretely on November 13, 18, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress presented two motions for resolutions: one for substance in the plenary and the other, to the Commission of Justice. The plenary one is still pending, but the one of the Commission of Justice, with the same text, was debated on May 2nd of the 19th, half a year after its presentation to the Registry of Parliament. The resolution adopted, among other questions, urged the Government to submit to Parliament a draft law on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia. On October 29, 19, the Government issued the precept of complimenting the approved resolutions, in which, more than good words and better intentions, it was not committed in a concrete and clear and time-bound manner to bringing forward the four points approved in the motion for a resolution. And so, meanwhile, the five parliamentary opposition groups were going to take the initiative of the observer's hand – I repeat – and we were going to enter the parliamentary initiative into the register. Our intention was – and it is, at least ours, that of my parliamentary group – that today, more than this proposal by the law, we may also debate the draft law of the Government, and that with the will of agreement and consent – that we do not doubt in any way that it will have to – we achieve a single text. But after more than a year, the government has not done its dues for lack of political will. A very similar thing also happens with the proposal for a democratic law, presented by my parliamentary group, which went beyond the procedure of the debate of totality, but which was retained by the Commission of Justice in the hope of the government text. It's been two years. And I quote the case of the democratic memory because the two laws are obviously complementary. The democratic memo refers – among other issues – to the disappearances of minors committed during the Francoism, while the one we are presenting today for its debate up to and including the 1990s, in which these crimes are brought to an end thanks to the approval of two laws and a judgment of the Supreme Court, especially: the Organic Law of Legal Protection of the Minor, of 1996, in which it stands – or establishes – the right of everyone who is committed to knowing his or her biological identity; the Supreme Sentence of 21 September 99, which held the position of the anonymous party and, therefore, derogated by unconstitutionality from Article 47 of the Civil Registry Law of 8 June 57. And a few years later, 2011, the amendment of article 30 of the Civil Code repealing the need to pass twenty-and-four days from birth to consider the person who dies before this period. It has already been said in other autonomous communities such as Navarre, Andalusia, Canàries, various situations already have legislative texts in this sense. Catalonia, in the defence of human rights in general and the rights of the child in particular, we sincerely believed that it could not stand in the way. The stealth of women stolen from Catalonia and Spain begins with Francoist repression in women's prisons and ends well in the 1990s, when the law of adoption changes – as I said before – that recognizes the right to know its identity. After the cases most linked to the political repression of women in the immediate post-war period began a policy of robbing and disappearances of children articulated around the national Catholic ideology and institutions that collect single pregnancies. Gradually he lost his ideological character to become a particular business that is perpetuated until democracy came in. In Catalonia there are hundreds of complaints filed that no one has found effective lives of repair and resolution. Only the people to whom his mother signed resignation at the time of the party have been able to receive information to locate her and to reverse her. All cases that do not have a signed waiver on the part of the sea or the seas to which they communicated the possibly false death of their baby have complaints filed for the impossibility of following the investigation. And the reasons for all this – and I think it's worth commenting – are the following: First, because there is no cos and can't do the DNA comparison. Secondly, because there is documentation of the death of the swim, but it is buried in a pit and, therefore, it cannot access the body or it cannot be analyzed. And, thirdly, because if the documentation is correct – it is to say, with more than one day of life and, therefore, already registered in the Civil Registry –, if the exhumation of the body can be done, in most cases it could not be concluded whether or not it is of its natural parents. The complaints filed by children for the fact that they are falsely registered as biologics in the archives cause investigations to be carried out into the crimes of documental falsification and the pretending of the part, which are analysed separately have a short limitation period. The current situation is that thousands of victims – mothers, parents, children, girls – are forced to live in denial and patience, unable to advance in the vicinity of their family members and restore the fundamental right to their biological identity. The principles of truth, justice, reparation, guarantee of non-repetition, recognized for the United Nations, are not respected, and there are violations of human rights recognized both internally and internationally. I think this argumentary is more than enough to justify the need for a specific law on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia. And this, obviously, is a proposition of law that is based on respect for people's basic rights and expressed in international human rights treaties. And, therefore, it aims to provide the standard instruments and resources necessary for the recognition and effectiveness of the right to the truth, justice and reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of victims in cases of enforced disappearance of minors and/ or appropriation of minors with the resulting replacement of identity. And, therefore, facilitate the tasks of investigation, regulation of administrative procedures, complimenting the concrete obligations of the Human Rights Convention, access to public archives, etc. Undoubtedly, deputies and deputies, today, from our point of view, is an important day. A special, historic day for family members who have been displaced and for the entities that gather them and gather them in their tireless struggle for truth and justice. We are starting today in the Parliament of Catalonia a process that we would like to see as quickly as possible and that, therefore, this same legislature will have the law finally passed. And I end with this reflection: I want to thank – indeed – the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana that after the talks that we have held before the beginning of this item on the agenda of the plenary, so there is a document that I myself had prepared for which we would ask for the processing of this bill for the extraordinary emergency procedure, which provides or allows the possibility that this legislature can be approved. If before – a few minutes ago – we talked about the APEUs, which they have to see with the Generality, but also with the joints, with the associations of traders, with the deputies, etc. Therefore, a law in more complex theory, we think [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – that this law, moreover, with the antecedent that I have explained that in its moment it has already been made comparisons and that, therefore, we are talking that the process of comparison can be relatively short, it can be substantiated in a day. I sincerely believe that we have taken an important step not only to start processing, but to decide, to agree among all that is effective, and that, therefore, we will do everything possible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.198.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.199.0	...because this law can pass this same legislature. Many thanks, president, councillor, deputies and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Yolanda López has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.201.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor... today we are faced with one of the most dantastic, infamous, cruel scandals in our country's black history. The origins of these events go back to the postwar period as a formula of political repression against Republican women, based on the idea of psychiatrist Dr. Vallejo-Nájera, who had the theory of the red gene, a gene that Marxists had and that fostered mental and psychosocial taras. To maintain the purity of the race, they diverted the sons of the Republican prisoners, who were transmitters of evil, and they were given to other families who could give him another life and remove them from Marxist evil. During the franchise, a prisoner was made to sign a record which acknowledged that the child he was carrying had no name or surname, was an unidentified child and that when he turned four he could be lost. Judge Garzón's 2008 writ accounted for thirty-thousand missing boys and girls who had been stolen from Republican women until 1952. This was the first stage of the stolen boys and girls in Spain. The second stage goes beyond 52 and still has no studies or statistics, but must be incalculable. Just look at the thousands of complaints and complaints that have been made after the year 52, the cases in the 1980s that have come to light are multiplying, even there is evidence and cases in the 1990s. Maria Luisa Jiménez looks for her daughter, born in 1978: "We asked to see the girl and they told me no, that we would remember her as she was, that the girl was very bad. We asked them to show us the body. After hours we were taught a frozen corpse, a huge girl that didn't fit mine. Adelina Ibáñez is looking for her son, born in 1975: "I saw that they took my child in a straw basket with white telita and blue lunarites. I ran after the gentlemen who took him, but he can't reach them. Sister Mary pushed the gentlemen into the car and I ran out of my stolen son. Pilar looks for her sister, born in 1982: "My sister was born, who weighed three and a half kilos, and a nun came to the room and told us that she had to take her, that she was becoming a dwelling place. He took it and after a while he came and told us that he had died. Adelina Ruiz Santos, maternity of Barcelona, looks for her twin daughters. Adelina, president of SOS Babés Robados Catalonia, is looking for her twin daughters. They were born on 11 December 1980. She was told that her daughters had died while her husband was forcibly waiting in the hospital waiting room. Adelina never came to see her daughters. The doctors told him that the girls would be sent to Madrid for an analysis of their bodies. « We could not see them, we never received any more news. Ana Pérez Garro, Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, looks for her daughter. Ana was twenty-four years old when her first daughter, who was born earlier than expected, was born on July 11, 1981. When she was told that her daughter had been born too soon and with all the defects of the world, she was surrounded by nuns, doctors throughout her delivery, throughout her experience, people she believed in trust. Ana never saw her first daughter. « For me... – and these words are from Anna –« for me, for my family, it is essential to think of my daughter, because she is also part of our family. These are only the voices of some mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters who took part of their lives when they stole from their daughters or brothers. They don't seek revenge, they seek the truth of the facts. The truth of crimes that have been committed and carried out in clinics and hospitals that are still in operation. The serious problem with all this is that the vast majority of complaints are being filed for lack of evidence or prescription. And this comes because the victims themselves do not have access to the documents to file a complaint. As Congressman Bruguera has said, only cases where the mother signed a renunciation of the newborn at the time of delivery have been able to receive information at the official level to locate them or to make a reunion. However, all cases in which the mother or those mothers who were informed of the false death of their stolen baby have not signed such a waiver, as he said, have filed complaints filed on the grounds that it is impossible, according to judges and prosecutors, to follow up the investigation. Women and men who have stopped trusting in justice and who lose hope day by day to be able to verify these crimes against humanity. The purpose of this proposed law is to provide the necessary normative instruments and remedies for the recognition and realization of the right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of victims in cases of enforced disappearance of minors and/or misappropriation of minors, and to facilitate the necessary investigative tasks in fulfilment of the obligations undertaken in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, declared for the purpose of the search for the truth on the effects that have occurred, the implementation of the action of justice on the events that have occurred, the full reparation of the damage caused to victims, the establishment of guarantees for the non-repetition of the events that have occurred and the assistance, psychological care and assistance to victims in the process of reparation by specialized personnel. Among other things, it identifies something that is essential, such as the consideration of victims of enforced disappearance of minors and minors who must have the status of missing or missing. It also includes the regulation of the rights of victims of enforced disappearances, including the right to judicial guardianship, which includes the provision of exhumations that are necessary for the realization of victims' rights and DNA identification evidence, or those that are necessary for the realization of the right to victims by specialized public bodies; and that exhumed remains that are not claimed by those who consider themselves to be concerned are again buried in sufficient conditions of dignity. The police and judicial authorities shall ensure the chain of custody of the remains exhumed and transferred for analysis, expertise and identification so that it can serve as material and expert evidence to the persons considered victims. Each census administration shall make available to the police and judicial authority, upon request, computerized data on births and deaths in each province or district of children aged between zero and five years, in the case of five-year censuses, and between zero and one year, in the case of annual censuses. The census will begin in 1936. The regulation of databases and DNA and the creation of the Office for the Victims of Enforced Disappearances of Minors of Catalonia, which will work together and in coordination with the various platforms and specialized entities in this field. From In Comú Puermos we are very happy to have reached an agreement for this law to prosper before the end of the legislature. And we hope... as well as the law that we have registered in the Congress of Deputies also on stolen babies, and we hope that PP and Citizens, just as they sign here, will support you there, who have not signed it. Because Catalonia and Spain need to move forward in recognition of the truth, in justice, in reparation and in ensuring non-repetition. We're looking for you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.203.0	Good afternoon, all of you. Today, as has been said, is an important day, a day of memory, a day of justice. We wanted to start our intervention... which, obviously, in the debate on this bill, to which we obviously support, remembering the pocket of journalism. Because, in this case, the journalism and specifically the journalism of the public media in Catalonia arrived or have arrived almost twenty years ago where the public administrations and the State did not arrive. A work of cooperation between historians, journalists, documentaries and, as I said, public television, which did a great job with that well-known documentary of the lost children of Francoism. The origin of this law is the grave thief and the systematic and planned violation of the children's, children's and children's franchise; the children's and children's theft to their families, to their seas. A policy planned and aware of Francoism. A moralist policy, ideological, and also a negotiation. After the lost children of the Francoism, more investigations were carried out that exposed the continuity of these practical, of these fascist policies during the post-war period and the stealer also for many decades. Today, as we say, is a day of justice. This law is an act of justice for those who promote it – which has also been discussed – for the victims, who have all the right to identity and, therefore, to clarify the circumstances of their adoption and their biological family. And today we also want to thank the persistent task of the Observers of Enforced Disappearances of Minors. At the UPC we also understand this law as a recognition of the single seas, of the great pleas to be endured by the social pressure, the morale of the sociological Francoism, the lack of the civil and religious authorities, which they saw as being judged by the mere fact of being embarrassed. About this stigma and this guilt operating after the plot to steal these children. So today is also a day to think about these seas. And as indicated in the same text, the thief was kept far beyond Franco's death. And why? It is obvious, and we have not spoken on many occasions in this Parliament, because we find ourselves in front of another of these Francoism crimes about which the Transition ran a long time ago. The discourse of reconciliation, which still has acrytic supporters today, ignores that the pacts of the Transition were based on silence on facts such as those we are talking about today and on those which, as a minimum, still remain many years later, in the beginning of a process of reparation. The absence of a process of truth, justice and reparation on the crimes of the franchise has a direct influence on the political configuration of the Spanish State. And today, which the Greek courts have placed in its place to the Greek ultraright, it is worth remembering this political configuration of the Spanish State, the direct legacy of the Francoism, because in the Spanish State the extreme right sits at the side of the courts to accuse democrats. That's an important question. We say that we are faced with a new case of injustice, of historical injustice, which we are beginning to repair today. And today he remembered a few words by Edward Galeano about the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo that he said: "In Argentina, the bugs of the Plaza de Mayo will be an example of mental salvation, because they refused to forget in time of compulsory amnesia. And, as he himself said: "Remember go to the beat records, which is to go back through the color, and, as the King said, "if there is an act of love, this is the memory. Therefore, truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. For the seas, for the daughters, for the adulters, for the singles, and for their kind of king, which today runs through the veins.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.204.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.205.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, today we discuss a regulation that aspires to legislate for the first time in Catalonia on a double drama. On the one hand, the drama of the disappearance of minors in unknown circumstances. And, on the other hand, the drama that also poses for families the disappearance of their children without finding answers for as long as the years go by. It is a sensitive issue, a lot, and that is why it is worth making an appeal to all the parliamentary groups and calling for their responsibility on an issue that deserves us all to make an effort, as I believe we have all the groups today calling for the urgent handling of this bill. It was a situation that concerned us all as a society, partly because we owe it to families. In its daily struggle for truth, the Administration has to be up to date to equip it with tools to help find that truth. It is true that this proposal for a law is the result of the initiative of the parliamentary opposition groups at the request of civil society, but what is also underlying it is to collect the mandate of the UN, within our autonomous powers, when it urged the Spanish State to intensify efforts to search for and identify minors who may have been victims of these deplorable situations. This law, if it succeeds, as I think it will, may not be the panacea to all evils, but it must be a tool to help families to seek the truth; a truth that as long as families do not find it will continue to cause them pain. Hence, it is important that the Administration put in place the necessary resources to search for and identify those minors who may have been victims of appropriation, enforced disappearance and/or identity replacement. This proposal therefore seeks to provide normative instruments and remedies for the recognition of cases of enforced disappearance of minors. In our view, the proposed law contains very positive elements, from the broad definition of the subjective sphere, to the recognition of a number of rights for those affected; not only the right to know the truth, but also the right to compensation for the damage. It is also worth paying particular attention to the fact that it imposes obligations on the public authorities in these situations. For us, too, this is an important step. And, of course, also highlight the creation of that office of the victim of enforced disappearances of minors in Catalonia, which should serve to ensure that comprehensive plans for the search for missing persons and for comprehensive assistance to victims are implemented; an office from which a free DNA bank will be created with all relevant information regarding the facts covered by the proposed law. In short, a law that represents a step, certainly insufficient but necessary, in the right to know the truth of the victims of enforced disappearances or irregular adoptions. And that is why we support and that we also endorse this initiative, because we understand that it will help to find answers, and that is already a great step on the right path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.206.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then there is a series of interventions for those parliamentary groups which are not signatories to the proposal. And, in this case, in the first place, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Sans has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.207.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... "I carry something inside my insides that I can't want. Poor little boy you're going to be born now. If you knew how sad I get when I think about what I'm going to do with you... but think, little boy, what my duty is. I'd like you to, if you ever find out that your mother didn't want you, you can forgive me, because, my son, I can't keep you. Not for my parents, not for money, but because I don't love you. Oh, but don't cry, my little boy, you're just not going to be in the world; you'll have parents who will love you more than anyone else, and, of course, more than me. This is the fragment, a very cruel fragment, of a letter written supposedly for a mother who abandoned her child to the motherhood of Peña Grande, in Madrid. To the Neus Roig, author of the book Don't cry that you're going to be happy, where we are talking about what we have popularly known as the case of stolen babies, four identical cards came to him that led to an investigation that has lasted years and that today continues to carry out. I think it's a good way to start because it fills in the cruelty of which many women, many children, many children, many families, also adoptive families, lived in this country between 1938 and 1996–1996. The ciphers are flattering. In Catalonia there are hundreds of complaints filed for the names of women's robberies, which began during the Francoist repression, as has been said, and which were extended in time until midday of the 1990s, without any victim having found the effective ways of repairing and resolving. The current situation is that thousands of people – mothers, parents, children, girls – are forced to live with the negit, with the patience, unable to advance in the vicinity of their family members and restore what is a fundamental right, the right to their biological identity. Years pass, and this despair grows. And in this sense all the Democrats, not just Catalans, but from all of the Spanish State, I think we need to be self-critical. How did we get to 2020 without having a law to fix what we think are crimes of humanity? Crimes that in this case have an important gender bias, affect women, and an important class bias, taking advantage of the situation of vulnerability, and that have formed part of the structure of a society that, more than ever, has not made us believe; a society that has not been able to respond to the suffering of hundreds of thousands of people. So today, what we have to do and what we do from the Republican Left is give support and applaud the fact that we can start the processes of this law, I am aware that the processing will be complicated by calendars. Therefore, I also support this urgent procedure proposed to us by Mr Bruguera. Now, a couple of considerations I'd like to express. First of all, we were pleased, we were very pleased, that this proposal for law could be registered jointly by all political groups. So we communicated it to the groups that we support the government, when in this case, then from the opposition it was decided to leave us out. Because we understand that this has to be a law of the country and it has to be born with all the strength possible, and in the case of Republican Left always, absolutely always, we have given support and we will continue to give to all the legislative initiatives that are aimed at recovering and repairing the historical memory of this country. And in this sense a small point: I would like to highlight the role of President Forcadell in the initial impulse of this law, which was decisive. Secondly, I would also like to clarify and value the work that the Government is currently doing on this subject through an inter-departmental committee led by the Department of Justice with the participation of the Observer for Enforced Disappearances of Minors, also with the participation of various associations of victims, which, obviously, badly all, has seen its action for the Covid, which in terms of the six-month period was to have some conclusions, which we understood to be an excellent starting point, with a rigorous and comprehensive approach to give impetus to a law in this matter. Surely, if the courts of this country aren't dedicated to laying down and drawing governments, then maybe the terms we could finish. A law that, we insist, we believe is essential, and that from this point of view must be as ambitious as possible. What do we mean by that? We understand that this law should be able to give an answer to questions such as... – so, here the text that is proposed... –, which wanders from the quantification of forced disappearances of minors – at hours of this time we don't know how many were there, do we? , the associations of victims xifre them in 300,000. So it's important to know how many there were. It is also important to determine the viability of a DNA database, which is important – some Members have referred to it – or, obviously, therefore, this law must also include reparation measures for victims. But from the Republican Left we understand that this law also has to be used to tackle a phenomenon that has its origin in the fascist repression, that involved an ideological genocide and that this model transition that they wanted to sell to us has invisibility and hidden under the guise of shame, as if nothing has happened here. For this reason, although we will never object to an initiative of these characteristics, we would like to warn you that the proposal of the law that presents the opposition to us is very small, that it makes only a reference to the franchise in the presentation of the motto. We find ourselves missing, therefore, the deepest denunciation of the Francoism, the paper that played there part of the Catholic Church. In fact, reviewing the motivating statement seems that the forced disappearances of minors, therefore, have appeared as a wave of fact. Not to denounce the system that encouraged them, that tolerated them, that made them visible, seems to us to do a poor favor to repair the damage that they suffered and that they continue to paint the victims. I don't know if it's the price I have to pay to have the signature of all political formations. They don't know if they answer that. So, in short, despite the fact that you don't seem to feel like you're starting a proper process, we'll give you support. Don't be the fruit of this law. And, therefore, we also support the urgent procedure, because from the Republican Left we will not take advantage of any space to denounce what the franchise meant for this country. And, in the case of stolen babies, so I think it's worth it... – some of the companies that preceded me, some of the companies that preceded me have spoken, right? , of the three stages in which these episodes are divided–, but I think it is worth taking advantage of the minutes we have in this Faristol to remember that it started with a strictly political, repressive mechanism of persecution of reds, and that it has a place basically in prisons..., more quickly of prayers, and that it has a place basically in prisons, some episodes that were produced between year 38 and year 52. That later this nadon stealer was used as a tool for winning and controlling women who do not complete the canons established for Catholic Church; they take nadons above all single women in a situation of maximum vulnerability. A phase that lasted between year 52 and year 77. And it changed later, too, to become a pure business. The children's robberies – on my date they slashed me – were extended until 1996, until the Adoption Law, therefore, allowed to put together and end to this practice that for so many years has been allowed in this country. Therefore, let us take advantage of the opportunity to denounce this crime, which the associations of victims calculate, as we say, that it could have affected 300,000 families, which are still in force. We insist that having a law is every time more urgent, taking into account the aging of many seas that need, that deserve, that have right to know where their children are before they die, and of many children that deserve to know their seas before it is too late. Therefore, with the law, we will put all our efforts, all the facilities, because we want to know the truth, we want it to be just, we want the damage of victims to be repaired globally, also from the personal optics, and also, and above all, we want that a crime of these characteristics cannot be repeated in the future. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.208.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mrs Elena Fort.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.209.0	President, Councillor, fellow Members and Members, first of all, let me celebrate here today, in the name of democracy and human rights, the exculpatory sentence of Mrs Tamara Carrasco, victim of an unprecedented judicial repression and example of what is not a state of law. Congratulations, Tamara. Secondly, remember the extraordinary exceptionality of this House before the disqualification of the very honorable President of General Quim Torra, another example of which is not democracy. And now I'm going to deal with the law's proposition, starting to remember what we're talking about. As many companies have already done, I'd like to go in there. The Franco regime was a dictatorial, fetishist, criminal and murderous regime. All those of us who have public responsibilities so that we do not stop repeating it and remember it as often as possible, so as not to lose the collective memory and ensure that our children and girls, net, net, besnets, besnets, do not forget or allow it to be repeated. And not only do we repeat it and remember it, do we make decisions and act. One of the few crimes known, few remembered, few spoken, of many of the franchise eaters is that of the disappearance of minors, the names "not lost of the franchise". Under this name are heterogeneous practices with a connection link: the loss of the defeated for the Francoism, with special repression of the women, as the formula to remove the "red gene that could cause the degeneration of the Spanish race, as proposed by the Philonazi psychiatrist Antonio Vallejo-Nájera; practices that go from the theft of babies to republican press, repatriation to the force of the "sons of the Republic for the external service of the Falange, documental falsification, simulations of parts, alteration of the biological affiliation and of the civil state, sale of children by means of institutions like the Social Aid, intervention in maternal clinics and even in public hospitals, disappearance of archives, supplantation of civil members, administration of administrative bodies, administration of administrative bodies, administration of administrative bodies, administration of administrative bodies, administration of administrative bodies, administration of administrative bodies, administration of administrative bodies. In short, a whole state. The researcher and journalist José Luis Gordillo explains in one of his books that the victims they have denounced have referred to up to 175 hospitals and clinics and birthplaces, and has not located twenty-five in Catalonia, twenty-four in Valencia and three in the Balearic Islands. The architecture begins in the year 36, crossing all the years of the Franco regime, intensifys to the fifty-sixties and continues during the Transition, until well entered the years of the 1990s. Yes, also the so-called "Transition", which still today explains that there was democracy in Spain. Once the war is over, the disappearances of minors from Republican women who go into prison with their children, pregnant, or who are raped within the prison begin. During this period, the influence of Nazi Germany is patent in Spain, and one of the aspects that reveals it is the implementation of the idea that came from Hitler's "red women's barns", which was promoted to promote the reproduction of the air race, according to which if the swim would separate before three years and change its identity would not hold any record. The Spanish psychiatrist and commander of the Vallejo-Nájera army arrived from Germany considering that he did not want to kill the minor Republicans, because they were left without children, and convinced to apply this doctrine and ended up sanctioning the order of March 30, 40 to allow it to be decided who was the person or institution appropriate to change the identity of the minor and to disassociate him from his natural family. When from year 52 they let out of prison the women entrepreneurs who had repented of being republicans, of the children of the walls and of the children of three years who had entered there, there is no record, there is no documentation of their existence. All thanks to a law of 41 that allows to destroy all documentation of the births to the Civil Registry and replace it with new affiliations. The Baltasar Garzón exjugation, as has been said, calculates that during this stage the missing children are approximately thirty-thousand. From the year 52, she created the Patronage of the Dona to collect and unplug single women, to whom she began to force to give her children into adoption, assuming that no one would give work and that the same families made them out of their home. From the sixties onwards, a stage marked by the power of England and its agreements with Franco began with the aim of all families having children. The first factor, therefore, is the single seas, but as if there were not enough, they began the negotiation of the sale of babies with the complicity of the monks who ruled maternity and of many public hospitals. This practice widened to the mid-points of the north – yes, to the mid-points of the north – something that certainly glars. It must be borne in mind that until then the adoptions are private and that the adopted do not have the right to know whose children they are, and that there was a law of the Civil Registry, which did not change until 2014, which said that still born dead was not a person but considered to be fetuses. All of this resulted in the deprivation of the parents' ability to see their children on the other side, and therefore to follow what had happened. There have been approximately 300,000 babies and children missing since this year 52, even though the exact figures, due to lack of access to documentation, do not have them. We are in front of a murder of humanity, due to the enforced disappearance of minors, which constitutes one of the systematic violations of the toughest human rights of the recent history of Spain, and also of Catalonia, and which challenges not only the idolatrous Spanish Transition but also the whole of the gear of a state that many years later has not been able to give an answer, which is silent and looks towards another side. A silent state which, even after the investigation of the crimes of Francoism, has failed to comply with the outcome of the Labour Group's work on forced disappearances or involuntary disappearances of the United Nations, which, after the investigation of the crimes of Francoism, has concluded that "in Spain there has never been a policy of state in the matter of truth, there is no official information or the mechanisms of clarification of the truth, and that an amnesty law and its interpretation must not allow the absolute cessation of the State's obligation to investigate, prosecute and punish those responsible for disappearances; a Spanish state which, as you see, is used to showing itself allegic in case of resolutions of international institutions on human rights. In this context we are debating this law, which has as its object, as has already been explained, standardizing our country a system so as to provide the instruments and resources necessary for the recognition and effectiveness of the right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of victims of our home, proposal of law to which Together for Catalonia gives support. He'll also give support to the processing as a matter of urgency. I take the words of Raquel Sans about why we were or weren't from the beginning. But I also want to remind you that the so-called 'political opposition' is also political, and therefore it is also one of its tasks to be able to bring to the House, to Parliament, to the house of all, these tasks, because the governments are not infallible, either. Therefore, because we do not forget it, to repair in the measure that the pain is caused, because it is never possible to repeat more and especially for all those people who deserve to know the truth. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-07-6302.210.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finish the debates, we'll go to the polls. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, let's get to the polls. [[Proposal for a change in the name of the Commission for People's Equality (cont'd)]] [[395-00264/12]] The first point to vote is the correspondent to item 3 of the agenda, that is, the proposal to change the name of the Commission of People's Equality. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. [[Decree-Law No 31/2020 of 8 September, amending Legislative Decree No 1/2000 of 31 July, approving the sole text of the Sports Law, and establishing measures for the functioning of the governing bodies of the sports entities of Catalonia (continuation)]] [[203-00056/12]] We now vote on point 4, which is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 31/2020 of 8 September, for which the Legislative Decree 1/2000 of 31 July is amended, for which the sole text of the Law of Sport is approved, and measures for the functioning of the governing bodies of the sports entities of Catalonia are established. Let's proceed to the validation of the decree. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes in favour – 108 correspondents from face-to-face or delegates and 21 from telematics – with no votes against and 3 abstentions. I repeat: 129 votes in favour, against and 3 abstentions. Once the decree has been validated, I ask the chamber if any group wants to process it as a bill. Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Urban Economic Promotion Areas Law Project (totality debate) (cont'd)]] [[200-00017/12]] So let's go to the next voting point, which is the correspondent to number 5 of the order of the day, that is, the vote of the theme to the totality on the Law Project of the urban economic promotion areas. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 128 against – correspondents to 107 face-to-face and delegates and 21 telematics – and no abstention. There are no more points to vote today. Therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock in the morning. Thank you very much.
