ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Decree-Law 39/2020 of 3 November of extraordinary social measures to deal with the consequences of the Covid-19]] [[203-00062/12]] We do so with the agenda item, which is the debate on the validation of Decree No. 39/2020 of 3 November of extraordinary social measures to deal with the consequences of Covid-19. First of all, and according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, will speak to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.2.0	Good morning, President. Members, Members of Parliament, today I have the opportunity to confirm Decree 39/2020 of 3 November of extraordinary measures of social character to address the consequences of the Covid-19. You are fully aware of this; you are not fully aware of the whole country and of the whole citizenry: this crisis is having an unequal impact on our society. It has had a major impact on the most vulnerable families, on the large people who live alone and have fewer resources, on the people who suffer from the digital divide, on the people who are homeless, on the people who live with the least to spend the month. This decree which we seek to validate is to accompany those measures which we must take for the health of this country, which obliges us to take, in order to control the pandemic, to be able to accompany these measures with measures in the social, economic and labour fields, in order to be able to accompany the sectors which are most affected by these consequences. You know it perfectly well: I am close to coordinating a department that is a department that is in the front line around these areas, because part of the crises linked to the Covid-19 health crisis have a very, very large impact on work and social issues. You know that we have, for this 2020..., we have a consolidated assumption of 3,448_million euros, which represents an increase, respect to the 2017 assumption, of 542_million euros – an 18.7 plus. The will is to continue to take advantage of any recourse and to devote it always to those people and to those areas that most need it. And it is about this aspect, with which was the elimination of the floor of deficiency, which has allowed us, in the last few days, to carry various decrees with these actions. They're always, unfortunately, limited. We'd love to have a lot more resources. We'd need a lot more resources. But all the resources we have are left to the service of the citizenry, the fabric of production, and the service of the people who are most aware of this crisis. This decree, which has as its object the establishment of new social measures..., this decree, in this context, affects various different areas. From support for self-employed workers to support for cultural workers and workers. Measures geared towards maintaining and improving the quality of care; that is, tariff increases. A tariff increase that we already had agreed on on the basis of the assumption; that we had agreed that when there was an opening of the deficit relief we could increase resources – in the assumption there were 15_millions –, and what we do is, also, take advantage of this decree to situate it, so that as quickly as possible its arrival in all areas: great people, people with disabilities, and childhood and adolescence. It also brings small modifications of measures in the field of cures, linked to facilitating the regularization of those most invisible people before the crisis – women migrated in situations of administrative irregularity and with work that is not regularized–, facilitated to execute resources in the field of male violence, and, lastly, also measures that allow us to agile the beasts to the special centers of work. I'll go in one at a time. About support actions for self-employed workers. As you well know... because, apart from that, there has been one of the areas that has brought a lot of debate in the last week and that we have already found that we need to rethink the system that had been used before, but that now, in the context that is there, we need to rethink. But at that time we had EUR 20 million available and what we wanted to do was to take advantage of them as much as possible, to throw them as far as possible, to help as much as possible, with a system that you also allow a reality that is also our obligation: you can help, you can listen to social issues, but if you don't get to people right now we have a problem. Now we have to rethink the system – and we know that we are rethinking it –; that this also linked to other aid linked to this decree that should have come out later, and that right now we are just working on the new model and we want to work with the sectors as well. But it was up to me to do it. It was up to me to do it and it was up to me to rethink it. And in this decree there were 20_million, with this uncompetitive competition, to ensure that we can get to everyone quickly. In this sense, it is only to place them that we have already solved..., yesterday we have solved 50_per_cent, and the payment of 25_per_cent of these aids had already been made. Similarly, as you know, from within the realm of the government we are working on a specific remodeling for the realm of autonomies, because it is a very high universe, which, apart from it, has..., has been very linked, sometimes, to the very decisions of government character, which certainly limit activities. And in this exercise we're working on it. Yes, in the realm of self-employment, I have just placed the various comforts that we have done, too, in the last few years, because I think it also helps to finish it. We were able to delve and constitute the Council of Autonomous Work as a forum for debate and discussion of the key aspects of the best of autonomous work in Catalonia. And we have also been increasing other types of policies linked to self-employment, linked to active employment policies. Since the increase of the "Consolida't...", other lines of help that we have made in the realm of the autonomies, but more in the classic lines that usually have the active policies of occupation and that we continue to work them, such as the "Consolida't, like the Youth Guarantee, we have made an increase of about 60_percent of the assumption that we have assigned for this 2020; the training programs corresponding to the Consortium for the Continuous Formation of Catalonia; the support programs– and these have had a very good response – to micro-enterprises and autonomies for the elaboration of projects of digital transformation and of the model of negotiations. These programs... even we didn't have to make a presuppositional enlargement, because they got a very good answer when we decided them, in the area of the SOC. Or, also, an element, that is the incentive program to keep the contract in micro-enterprises – that in most cases they are autonomous, with less than five, six workers–, that has also had a very good response, and that is also connected to the way to see it from the Department of Treball. I mean, there's a commitment to keeping jobs in a context like this, so there's a help keeping these jobs. It's in this sense that we've located it. As I said, in this decree it is 20 million for self-employed workers, who will benefit some two thousand people. That we have placed it..., of this formula, that it did not follow the proper – and we have already said it, from the government –..., because it was agile and because it gave a quick answer. And we're working on another model that I'm agile, that I gave him continued support over time. Because I think we are all aware that the situation linked to the Covid-19, unfortunately, will not end. And now we're at a time when we seem to have passed the second wave, but we need to prepare for any other moment. And also what we want is to find the resources to give him a major, easy-to-support, and that he can access everyone. And on this line we're working. Remember, in this sense, that we have already made a first aid of this style in the spring, of 7_million_i_mig. That was also of uncompetitive competition, but it is true that it had some limitations around which it could be presented, which meant that it was intended for the 7_million_i_mig concrete, because the limitations already made the universe not so wide. It was one of the things they also claimed from the sector: expanding the universe. And that's what we did. But we need to look for a system that allows a distribution that doesn't follow what happened last week. In the end, in order to give them global data, we carry dedicated to the area of self-employed workers 62_million_i_mig euros since the beginning of 2020. We'll allocate more, because whenever we have resources, we'll allocate more. And what we need, too, is cooperation and co-responsibility, too, of the administrations competent in this matter, of which they cover the contributions. And in this sense, we hope that we can visualize this cooperation and co-responsibility, which I believe is what citizenship calls for at these times. On the other hand, it is also necessary to place the element of social measures in the field of culture. What we are pursuing here is to be able to give specific support to the most affected workers and cultural workers for the pandemic. The cultural sector is one of the sectors affected by the decisions taken by the Government of the Generality, but, as you can see, the great part of the governments of all Europe. And that means that we must be able to accompany these measures that we take from the health-care perspective, with measures of social and economic support, especially for those people who are in a more precarious situation. This help, right now, even though the universe is much smaller, it certainly wouldn't generate that massive input... but likewise, like the decision is taken and it's a good decision, to change the model, we're just working on it. Last week I was able to have a meeting with the Catalan Academy of Music to explain to them that we would surely change the model. We're just setting it up. We'll summon the sector together with the Department of Culture, and we'll explain the new model, once we're closed, and we'll try to remember it. Here, what we want to achieve is a single payment of EUR 750 for professional and technical persons in the performing arts, visual arts, music and audiovisual and other cultural activities suspected of the reason for the health crisis in Catalonia. There is also another element of reflection here. We have a protection system, in the realm of the world of work, that has small holes. And one of the holes is these situations of intermity that have many professionals, many workers and workers in the cultural field. Here we will have to work – as long as we are working – in the state of the cultural worker, and I think it is one of the pending assignments – not that we have as the country, because the skills are not ours; that we have in the State – and we hope that, as soon as possible, it can be solved. On the other hand, there is the third element of this decree, which is the measures relating to the price of social services. It's an increase in tariffs. We add the increase in tariffs that we were able to make in the past year, even though we are in the presuppositional prorogation, to an increase in tariffs already agreed in the assumptions of 2020, increased with 20_millions from the opening of the floor of the deficit, which must allow us a very clear objective – and the situation from the maximum respects the autonomy of the shares at the time of the collective negotiation; in the same decree it is very clear. The aim is to improve the working conditions of professionals in the social sector. And I think that's the goal we all need to share. There's an increase in rates, on one side, in the realm of the great people. It's worth 20 million euros. And we have one of the agreements that we have with the sector, very clearly: the equipping of grade 2 with grade 3 dependence. In the end, in grade 2 and in grade 3 there was almost the same care, there were the same needs of professionals, and it was one of the aspects that we had given and that I think all of you – because we also discussed it in your parliament – share. We need to do this horticulture. With the two price bids of the last two years – the one of the year past 17_million_i_mig, and that of this year of 20_million–, what we do is to equate grade 2 with grade 3. This means an increment in grade 2 of more than six points of the fare, a 6_per_cent, and this pursues an aspect that is key and that we all share in this Ple, which is the best of the working conditions of the hierogulturists, the auxiliaries, in the realm of the residences of the great people. There has also been an increase of 5_per_cent in day centres, in day centre rates. On the other hand, there is also an increase in tariffs for people with disabilities. Last year we were able to increase disability rates by EUR 5 million. This year, between the rates of people with disabilities and the rates of mental health, which we have incorporated this year – that it is a much smaller universe, but that we were aware that we would have to incorporate them –, there are 7_million_i_mig euros; with a view that, in some areas, growth is 1.2_percent and in others it is 5_percent, also depend on the reality of which we are part. The reality of some of the day's services..., were in a more complex situation than other realities, and so we make a push that is different, depending on the type of service, but a very clear look at the SOI, which is a 5_per_cent, in all the other day's services, which is usually the push around a 3_per_cent, and in the residential environment, which is the push around a 1.2_per_cent. Also, in this sense, we make a differential element of 2019. In 2019, what we did in the field of CDIAPs was to make an increase of hours of attention. In this 2020, what we are doing is also an increase in the price/hour, also an increase in the rate in the area of CDIAPs, which, as you know, are those early detection centres for infants in any possible element of disability and which have an import..., an event in the territory and a fit import for families and for their infants, children and girls. And, lastly, 7_million_i_mig destined for the field of childhood and adolescence. An environment where we didn't push tariffs last year – and things have to be said for its name – but it was looking for this year to push tariffs. An environment that has been very tense these last few years. An environment where educators and social educators, professionals in the sector, deserve this vision. And let us also take advantage of this increase in rates in the field of childhood and adolescence, while pursuing an objective: the better of the conditions of people who care for other people, as infants, as disabled people or as great people. We have also been able, in this sense, to provide compensation for the over-efforts that have been made in the residential fabric of childhood and adolescence throughout this pandemic. We could already do it in the realm of great people and disabilities, and we had the assignment hanging from the realm of childhood. Fortunately – and it has to be said – this pandemic does not have a very specific impact around infants, but this does not mean that there is attention, that there is a need for..., some realities that are not usually contemplated, such as EPIs, etc., a expense, such as sector work, which also affects when you have professionals who can be contacted closely or who have taken over the Covid-19 and you have to make a return of professionals even though they are temporary, and we have been able to add 3_million_i_mig to these elements, which will allow us to support the stresses that have been made in the residential fabric, in the field of childhood and adolescence, respect the whole-19. For another..., and there are three small points, three modifications that are very partial, but we also think that they were necessary and that they are interesting. For a band, the Decree 25/2020 is amended in relation to the field of cures, which is intended to promote and facilitate the regularization of people, mostly women, who work in this field, who work in cures at home. To amend the articles. For a band, import, so as to drain its execution. I, for the other, widen the time. As soon as we approved the resources we had allocated to us, we made a government agreement in order to have multi-annuality, and what must be allowed to us is an experience that is absolutely innovative in Europe around this regularization of migrant women – mostly women – who work in private schools. This experience, which we are not very happy, can be re-executed by 2021, having this margin and having this space that regulates its legal strength. Also, with the same motive, we modify the order governing the call for grants for entities extending the period of execution of the funds coming from the State Pact against General Violence, against Masclist Violence. Why? Because we are in a situation of absolute exceptionality, and one of the exercises to be done by all the administrations is to try to be as flexible as possible because the same Covid-19_has led to some projects not being able to develop with the planning that it was, and it is being able to agile at the most, being very flexible at the time of the execution of these projects, from these foundations of the State Pact against Masclist Violence. And, finally, this decree also makes it possible to guarantee the liquidity of special work centres by means of beasts in the transfer of promotion of labour integration into special work centres. It's also... other realities that the pandemic brings us. During the spring, the pandemic placed a freeze on the administered terms. This can create some difficulties around justification elements in the field of special work and extension centres for certain administered periods. And what we wanted with this decree is to introduce this article, which allows us to give these beasts. Because in the end the problems – and you know it – in any company, in any social entity, in any administration, are not only presupposed balances, but also liquidity. And what we want is to be able to cover these elements that can generate liquidity tension, even though I have secured resources, with beasts that can make it easier for there to be no liquidity difficulties. All right, all right, To thank them for their patience in the explanation and this is the decree we have to validate here, in the Plea del Parlament. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.3.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, in order to position themselves, the parliamentary groups have the word, and in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy José María Cano has it. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.4.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, very good morning to everyone. We find ourselves in the debate of another decree law that brings us this Government, this decree is already number 39 of a long list and contains a whole series of measures that are framed within the emergency of the Covid-19, and that in this case cover from the world of autonomous and micro-enterprises, passing through the world of culture, to end up touching social issues, with measures related to children, adolescents and residential centers. If we try to analyse all these decrees as a whole, the first thing we will realize is a lack of strategy, the impossibility of obtaining a clear picture of the measures being taken by this Government in the face of a situation as harsh as that which we are experiencing, both from the health point of view, from the economic point of view and from the social point of view. A scenario in which the cruel pandemic that has plunged us into a global health crisis has ended many lives and forced us to restrict our mobility and, therefore, has become an economic crisis of unseen dimensions, an economic crisis that is increasingly profound, depending on the restrictions imposed, and is increasing the suffering of citizens, who are already immersed in an unprecedented social and humanitarian crisis. What shows us this joint vision of all these decrees law, of all these measures, is the drift of an exhausted, broken government, which is overflowing and totally paralyzed. A government unable to design and implement a strategy in the face of the pandemic, in the face of this cruel situation, despite the passage of time and that theoretically they should already start having some experience and learning from mistakes. When I tell you that it is a broken government I mean that its members are unable to coordinate themselves, they are unable to work together in search of the best results. And not only are they not able to coordinate between councils, nor are they coordinated or consensual with the opposition, despite the fact that all parliamentary groups have reached out to them, despite the fact that we have made countless proposals to them and that, of course, we will continue to do so, because what is at stake is the health of the citizenry and our economic livelihood. We see with amazement how the groups that support the Government, and Mr Aragonès himself and you, Mr Chakir El Homrani, each time they intervene from this atrium tell us about the need to work all together and that they will take us into account, they tell us that it is time to row all together, but at the time of truth, when we value the facts, not the words, the opposition groups are invisible to this Government. For you, we must be a kind of hindrance and you are unable to take advantage of our totally purposeful attitude. At the beginning of the pandemic, I have to tell you, I have to admit, I wasn't able to understand it. I did not understand how they missed an opportunity like this to seek a unity of action, how they did not take advantage of all our proposals – proposals in the health field, proposals in the economic field, proposals in the social field; proposals which, in the vast majority of cases, you did not read or have read. I didn't understand that attitude to a pandemic situation, but over time I do understand why. If you are not able to coordinate between yourselves, if you are not able to coordinate between departments and have continuous disputes, continuing disagreements and leaks, how will you coordinate and take advantage of the open hand of the opposition? It is impossible to coordinate with the opposition a government that is broken, in which each councillor and each department follows their own path, with a vice president also at the head who shows himself unable to lead and order his own house for the benefit of the citizenry. Therefore, the final result are improvised decrees, disaster decrees, like this, that would not pass even the slightest quality control. What we find are genuine unrelated patches that have been putting through successive decrees that have been signed since March, and that despite the passage of time and that theoretically all these measures should already be framed within a well-structured shock plan, an emergency shock plan that addresses both the health and the economic and social spheres, a plan agreed with the opposition and the social and economic actors with the aim of alleviating precisely the effects of the pandemic, a strategy that balances to the right extent everything related to health with everything related to the economy..., but instead of that strategy, we find another Macedonian decree like the one that brings us to approval today. We, by responsibility, will allow this decree to be passed. But we will do so as we have done in all the previous ones: without any kind of enthusiasm, without any kind of hope and with great concern for the poor management that this Government is doing, noting that we have the worst Government of the Generalitat at the worst time. And it was hard enough for them to get over it. This government in the only scenario that is handled well is in that of confrontation, when it is easy to blame a third, which, as always, is the evil Spanish state. But when the results depend on their management, miseries are exposed, and that is precisely what is happening right now. It is no longer so easy to give that excuse, even if they continue to use it in each of their interventions. However, the unrelated points of this decree law make us perfectly visualize the human drama that we are experiencing, the human drama that our elders are experiencing, the drama of residences, the difficulties of people with disabilities, with health problems, and of family members in the face of this pandemic. And from the economic point of view, that decree law is the reflection of the drama of the self-employed, of all those individual heroes who are, as always, abandoned by this government. They belong to your councillor d'Afers Socials i Treball – your councillor, Mr Homrani – but I already told you in my question, you don't understand them. I have to conclude that he doesn't know what an autonomous is, he's not able to empathize with them, because I understand that he doesn't know what it means to open the blind or go looking for customers every day, he doesn't know what it is to pay a payroll, or social insurance, or quarterly taxes, and neither are they being supported by the company advisor, who should also protect them. Only with these premises can the autonomous be humiliated by one of the measures contained in this decree. From the Government they imposed closure on certain sectors without thinking about the economic and social consequences of that decision and without even considering that if they took their livelihood they had to accompany them, they had to help them and not let them fall. Can you imagine the suffering of all those families who depend on the world of the fair, for example, who have been unable to work for months? Can you imagine the suffering of families who depend on the hospitality with the decree to close bars and restaurants? Can you imagine the suffering of the sports sector, of all the families that depend on the gyms, or the suffering of all the families that depend on the nightlife sector or the world of culture or the tourism sector in general? They think that more than 95_per_cent of our economic activity is self-employed and small businesses. There are thousands of families that have been left virtually without any income. They're thousands of self-employed people who don't know if they're gonna be able to make it to the end of the month. They live with the constant threat of being forced to close their business permanently. And in the face of this situation, which anyone with a minimum of sensitivity can clearly visualize, what they have done is humiliate them with an aid of two_ thousand_euros; an aid for the first ten_ thousand, as if it were a gross contest; a alms for those who came first to submit their application on an overflowing web. It is no longer just that the web collapsed on the first day before the avalanche of applications. It is no longer just that they did not allow more applications to be submitted within three_hours of opening the deadline because the funds had been exhausted. It is the impotence and anger of all those autonomous who, while they are having a hard time, feel humiliated by this Government. And the problem is not that the aids were ill-designed, that too; the really desperate and worrying thing is that this Government had not foreseen that that would happen. Does no one in this government really know about the suffering of the citizens, the suffering of the autonomous, affected by the restrictions that you yourself have imposed on them? Really within your comfortable life it has not even crossed your mind that a ten - thousand - first aid was not a help, was it a humiliation? It was to laugh at them in their face, to laugh at those who have fulfilled their part of the treatment, who have done everything in their hands, all possible investments so that their establishments and activities would have all the guarantees of health security, following precisely their own recommendations. And, in return, what did they receive? They have paid them without taking into account, without listening to them, making decisions unilaterally, without giving them any kind of minimally logical and coherent explanation, without sitting with them and exposing them, black on white, the situation and why of such drastic and indiscriminate decisions. They have not argued why they did not opt for more surgical restrictions, depending on the risk zones, which would not end their future. What they have done is generate uncertainty, mistrust and much, but what a lot, despair, throwing balloons probes as when they announced they were going to open the night's leisure and a few days closed the bars and restaurants. They have mistreated them by acting nightly, making decisions from one day to the next, without allowing them to manage the stocks minimally. Look, we don't see how we can manage that situation that we're living in a broken and selected government for complaint and confrontation, that what he does is give bandages without proposing solutions. Mr. Homrani, someone with minimal responsibility would step aside. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Raúl Moreno has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.6.0	Well, good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable councillor... five weeks, councillor! Five weeks! It is difficult to add many more things that have already been said publicly about..., things that bring today to debate in this Parliament with this decree. I believe that this decree was the gout that made the gout, a gout that was full of incompetences on the part of its department. To remember the disastrous management of the first wave on the issue of residences, which ended, therefore, with President Torra..., betray them 'in the competitions. Residences that today do not cover the most of Covid precisely for an error in a decree we spoke to the previous plenary. I mean, it's the second decree that has problems. They promised you 1,800 professionals to the unreached residents. They promised, in addition, to pay for residential centres and day centres. They don't cover since March. He said false things, like the fact that teletreball was binding on our country, when it wasn't. No policy to reduce child poverty, you don't want to deploy and a guaranteed income that doesn't go up to the people who need it the most. And now the circus has come up with benefits for self-employed workers who back down this decree. A two-billion-euro loan to the first one, not the one I needed the most, not the one with the most problems. The criteria is celery, it's fast. The same style as people who make the day they start lowering them in malls. With one difference: the malls will open the door and the people will be able to enter. The Generality's information platform did not allow us to open the door to everyone. In fact, there are more advanced information platforms to buy an entry from a pop artist concert than those used by the same Government of Catalonia to manage social services. It's a little different to grab a helicopter and launch tickets from the sky, so who first has the ability to grab them. And to this you say non-competitive competition procedure. And it's all the opposite. Surely there is no competition without competitiveness. Autonomes and autonomes in precarious situations, with their negotiations closed, competing for a small benefit, which in the best of cases would reach 2_percent of the 500,000 autonomous and autonomous workers in Catalonia. Brand Republican Left. Fem announcements of performances– if it can be, many–; then we have a small amount of content to these performances and may God share luck. It's a makeup issue. You are more interested in announcing services than you are in providing services that are effective. You argue that this is the only procedure for money to arrive quickly. It's not just fake, it's just, more than that, it's unfair. And sort between swiftness and justice... we're left with justice. And it's not just a fake – that it's an argument that you've been defending for a few days, that this was the only quick mechanism to be able to do it – that even now you've said you're looking for another mechanism – because, effectively, there are more mechanisms to get the benefits quickly to those that most need it. And it's not a question of money either. Yesterday you were announcing – and today you've done it again – that you're looking for other benefits for yourself, other benefits for the culture sector that will arrive soon – today on TV3 didn't want to put a date; so I understand you're studying it – with more economics. Therefore, if they have economic availability, which they hold– 3,200_million euros per State, 420_million euros of the deficit limit, allowed to be in debt, and, more than that, they have about 900_million surplus... They have economic availability to do so. And they have shown you, again, your incompetence. Solution: stop the department's dome. Let's see if that's how we get the message that we've taken action, huh? , which have assumed responsibility on the part of the entire technical team of the department. And I believe, Mr. Counselor, that you should assume your responsibilities. The government can't stop it, because it's working. You can resign. And the question that should be asked is, if the government isn't working, would you be sitting here today? And that's what you need to reflect on your responsibility in this matter. I must tell you, counselor, that there are a lot of people in the social sector and in the community of the citizenry tired of listening as an excuse to the government of the state to try to justify their mistakes. This service has been poorly designed, poorly financed and poorly managed for its government, which has achieved the opposite effect it sought: instead of worthy of self-government, it has degraded them. Neither Sanchez, nor Iglesias, nor the sursumcorda. Take on your responsibilities and, if possible, don't try to fool us another day that you've changed your advice because you want to implement a new management model three months before you finish the legislature. About the share of culture. Miri, this decree is dated November 3rd. Today's November 19th. Has no one agreed that there was the procedure of non-competitive competition in the part of culture? Why did you wait until last night, at the last hour, to withdraw this benefit? Don't get along – don't get along. He could have done it last week, when he saw that the computer system was failing, and so all these benefits are being withdrawn because the system doesn't work. No, it's gonna wait till yesterday. Miri, it was funny, huh? I have my theory, because if I have to wait for you to explain the reasons why you took it last night, a few hours before you approved this decree, this decision, so I have to wait for it safely, huh? But yesterday my company, Rafel Bruguera, the deputy, asked the Aragonese councillor and said, precisely, that there was a problem with this cultural performance, and it was also that there was insistence on uncompetitive competition. Mr. Vice President's surprise face was important. After that, the benefit was cancelled. I honestly don't understand why, if the procedure is wrong, you wait until last night to say so. It's a loss to the culture sector. I hope today at noon, when I meet them, explain to them why they made this decision. And why this lack of support for a sector that is going through very badly, which indeed needs to be done. He needs a government to tell him when, how and how. And that, in any case, the procedures are also agreed with the sector. The sector didn't know that. Coneixia, the Department of Culture, the content and the way it would do that performance? Ask the counselor there. So, it's still an absolute gap. The sector did not know anything about the procedure. And, therefore, I think you should deal with a little more respect, because we are talking about very sensitive situations. He said to TV3: "I was already planning to modify the aid system, but the mistake was that it was published on the web. I insist: this procedure is public since November 3rd and you waited until yesterday, at the last hour. I'll talk about more of the decree, because the decree has good things. Clearly, they do this thing by putting different things on it... And we, for an act of responsibility, will abstain; not for the issue of autonomies and for the themes of culture. This decree has four chapters. Two aren't going anymore. Two don't work. He said: "No, no, this..., we won't do it. We'll approve them today. So what we approve today is not going to do – the issue of culture. And the locals was a fiasco. Well, let's look at the rest. And in the rest there are positive things. In this decree, you expand with 2_million euros you help them to try to regularize the professionals of the cures. That's good news. Before I did, a year before the alarm state, and now also, two years after the alarm state. A well-intentioned measure, under our economically gifted little point of view. Extend until September 30, 2021 the period of execution of the state pact, as well as payments to special work centers with the beast formula, as we have suggested for some time. And for what he does at the rates – and I have a little time left, but I'll tell you this – it's good news, first of all, that the rates of residential services are used. At the end and the end, it's a pact between the commons and you that today is the door here– it could have been carried in another decree, but we've stayed here. It seems to us that they are absolutely insufficient. We're talking about a 1.2_per_cent increase in some of the servers, a 5_per_cent as high – a 5_per_cent as high – and, more than that, actually, they make grade 2 and grade 3 have the same economic module. They, therefore, support the economic model of residences and support the co-sponsorship of families. Families will have to pay more. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] In fact, families will have to pay more – I finish, president – so much if they have a grade 2 family member as if they have a grade 3 family member. So, Mr. Counselor, you're making yourself look good. We suggest that you step back and, above all, that you are more sensitive to the sectors that worse are going through...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.7.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.8.0	...in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.9.0	Thank you. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.10.0	Well, good morning, counselor. MPs, MPs, this is a decree of tailors, a bar of very different themes about which, moreover, we have very different positions as the parliamentary group. He added to the compliment, finally, of the agreement reached with us as a parliamentary group in the negotiation of assumptions, in order to increase the rates of services in the field of dependency, disability, some mental health and childhood..., a measure that, even though it comes late, much later than we would have liked, obviously we share. It also includes the controversial help to the autonomous, limited, disastrous in its management, through the help to the technicians of the cultural sector, that, while welcome, it does not cease to be a recycling of resources that did not manage well in previous aids and, moreover, with the mature announced yesterday at the night of its implementation. I'll talk to you later. And they include, besides, other elements, positive to our parent, to facilitate beasts to the special centers of work and modifications of subsidy terms, among others the relations with the foundation of the Covenant of State against Masclist Violence. A barrage of issues that, by responsibility, so as not to clearly hinder those we consider positive and necessary, we will abstain in the vote on this decree. But I also have to say – and I have to say, counselor – that if it was for the first chapter of this decree they deserve a vote against and blows. The first chapter of this decree is the support measures for self-employed and self-employed people who are part of micro-enterprises. There have been ad hoc economic aid disasters, due to insufficiency and inefficiencies. They turned them into an impossible computer gymnasium for forty-four hours, with a system that failed and a col of competition between equals. But, above all, because by providing them with only 20_million euros they turned them into a competition between half a million autonomies that require help to try to be among this small group of favors in Catalonia. Only one of your people has been able to access these aids. And we're wondering why. So they get people to fight for hours and hours with an IT system that doesn't work; so they articulate some help that they know is insufficient, with a formula of competition between the same, when there are alternatives to do it in another way. Why didn't they put in more money? And that's the key question: why do you create a help with such a short staff of iniciators? Why haven't they put it, to say the least, 100_millions, in 20_millions accounts? Why don't they spend? Why don't they spend? Catalonia today has a lot of resources to offer solutions to the problems of Catalans and Catalans, much more than it had before the pandemic and what they might have imagined. Mr. Aragonès should leave the calculator and start worrying about allocating resources to where they are, where they are most needed. All the requests that have been made to us by his Government, especially the Department of Economics, we have succeeded. There is a Covid fund for 2020– they asked us – of 3,200_million euros, which is more than 20_percent of the total Covid fund of the State. They favored Catalonia, the criteria with which this Covid foundation was shared, because they were by population and health status, and in both cases they favor Catalonia. Deficit targets have been removed. This year, we had to complete a deficit target of 0.2_percent of GDP. It has been eliminated and only a recommendation of 2.2 of GDP has passed. The expense rule has been suspended. It guarantees the financing of the debt that is generated. And this is very important, because the Generality cannot finance via markets and the State guarantees them the financing of the debt that is generated; therefore, they allow them to borrow. There is a new Covid fund committed by 2021 that will be at least 2,000_million euros. And, moreover, in the assumptions for 2021, general assumptions of the State..., which are still in negotiation and still can certainly incorporate more things, but there are already recoveries of parties claimed for the Government of Catalonia, as increased parties, as an important increment for dependency or an agreed match in habitat. There's money. And ability to borrow. Gastin! Gastin! Rescue sectors the people! We need to prevent the economy from failing and people from falling into situations that are much more difficult to return to. And I don't like to explain it that way, but maybe that's how they understand it better: much more eager to return to a minimum life situation in our country. Gastin now, that after the economy will return him. But they keep spending on counters and we don't understand them. We don't understand what Mr. Aragones is winning, what this government is winning, what they're winning together for Catalonia or the Republican Left to follow with the ability to be champions of the compliment of a deficit limit that doesn't exist. Who doesn't win anything with this attitude that they're ruling at such critical times, sure, it's the country: neither their people, nor their businesses, nor their economic system. And you help them to the autonomies that include us in this decree they answer absolutely to this attitude that I am telling them they should eradicate. Why 20_million euros so well-known that they were absolutely insufficient? The same thing you say with help to culture. The economic performance for technicians and workers of performing, visual, musical, audiovisual arts, affected by the suspension of cultural activities. They are the ones who are the worst in the cultural sector, the ones who could benefit from these aids. Also with a limited, competitive match between equals and that they don't even respond to an extra government economic effort. These 3,6_millions come from the Romanesque of the previous direct aid approved by the Department of Culture with the Consulting of Work prior to the summer. Then they approved a 5-million-dollar game. They're going to be 3,6 without spending. Why? So because they did it badly, with a lot of red tape, with a disastrous spread and a lot of the sector couldn't access it. Now they recycle those same 3.6_millions that were left in this new help; that you are not new, that you are recycled. Don't come with a new help. It's not a new effort. And, besides, it's not just an extra or different effort, it's just that they repeat the exact same formula: a one-time fixed payment of 750_euros, which is a morrilla for which they carry year-ends, from now on, without being able to work and without pay..., without pay for new months, and now offer them a single and competitive pay of 750_euros. And also an absolutely unfair help, because it does not have any type of progression or case analysis of each case. And this is a very diverse sector, and it's not fair to treat everyone alike. It's not the same person who worked this summer and earned three thousand euros, who worked one time this summer and didn't pay three hundred, and who didn't make any other charges or work in all these new months. It's not the same, I'm sure. Everyone needs it, but it's not the same. But, in case it wasn't enough, they'll bring them in as soon as they've approved this help, and at the last minute, they'll announce that they're stopping the help, that they're rethinking it. Mirin, I must stop improvising, stop messing with the government. Today this sector, from here to an estona, is manifest to claim effective aid already. Rethink 'hoam with very agile, please, counselor. And to eliminate this competitive system between equals and to increase, above all, to increase the quantity. I repeat: I stop saying that there is no money; they have and have the capacity to borrow. I ended by congratulating myself, of course, because I approved the updating of the tariffs of the dependency, disability and childhood sector, which was agreed at the beginning of the year with us in the negotiation of the assumptions of the Generality of this year. We agreed on 35_million euros, and that's what they have now in this rate update. They know you're insufficient, obviously. We would have wanted it to be much more, but we came from two years of frozen tariffs in these sectors, except for a small increase in the year spent in these areas. It was important to begin to increase them, but above all it was necessary to do so with a clear focus on the fact that the increase is intended mainly for better working conditions. This is the negotiation we had with the government; this is the implementation that is now being ratified with this decree, and obviously we are pleased to have focused on the beginning of the thawing of these tariffs. There has been a great deal of recourse to improve them, but that, moreover, is done with a clear focus that the main best has to be in the working conditions of precariousness so absolute that there is in the sector of cures in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the parliamentary group of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the words of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonés. [[Pause.]] Yeah. I have said 'parliamentary group', I have agreed. Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.12.0	Thank you. Good morning, all of you. We, to begin with..., and it cannot be in any other way than Article 1 of this decree which today will be valid. Look, counselor, two thousand euros, two thousand autonomes and autonomes, that's all there is, that's what it meant; but we need to see many more things, beyond its final criteria to affect the Covid or the state of alarm. And the first thing we need to see is why there's a big company that talks about this in terms of lottery. Actually, we think it's very strict, talking in terms of lottery when we talk about it, but it's much worse up to and beyond the perspective that a player has when he plays the lottery. And we'll explain why. Even the humblest people in this country can buy a small share, and it's like working culture to practically give a tenth to friends, working companions, family – a tenth. In this reality that only two thousand people can access it, there are fewer possibilities that the fact that you play the lottery. You're doing the math, counselor. Three hundred thousand autonomes, autonomes, physical persons, two thousand people who can access it. But there's another element: it's not a lot of luck. Because here we have to analyze who has more or less media, who has more or less informational skills and who can also access management contracted through gestures or professional dispatches to see how he accesses these services. First phonative element. And so, please, I end up with this competitive, non-competitive competition, calling it what it is, what it really is, a disaster. And a disaster isn't because the computer application doesn't work, that's the usual indirect management. A disaster is because it is the absolute failure and the shaping of social policies that are not fanciful. And, look, counselor, there's another element that no one has moved and that this group wants to manifest. Can you explain to us why they limit cooperatives when they have more than three partners? You're talking about social economy and co-operativeism, and what they're doing is leaving most co-operatives or partners out of this country's RETA. That's unacceptable, Counselor. It cannot be accepted that they are leaving out the social and solidary economy or a part of co-operativeism. Article 8. Now we're moving from autonomes to the world of culture, where there are autonomes too. The first question: what do the autonomes of culture access, to 2,000 or 750? This... And yes, it's 750, can anyone explain to us why a benefit of 2,000 for one and 750 for the other? We don't know yet. And let's go back to the lottery until yesterday, that on the evening they announce that they're paralyzing everything there. Look, the problem wasn't paralyzing, the problem is that you might have announced what you would do, and even let it start processing and you announce that this will have another way. Administratively it is possible, but the denial and frustration they generate daily is unbearable. And again we go to a reality that rules and leaves out – now also in the world of culture – the humblest and most precarious people. When you have the criterion of a single day of 2020, it may seem that it's minimal, but, look, we're in a sector of storms, indefinite part-time and fixed discontinuous that this year 2020, for Covid, couldn't start working and, therefore, won't have a single day. So what in the French State is known as the intermittents of culture. And you're leaving them out. They are making indirect discrimination for this collection, which is the most humble and precarious of the sector. There's enough, counselor – there's enough. And we're willing to give him another alternative. Regulin fix a day or a month of cooking 2019, and the problem is over. Part of the problem, better said. And the third question, which refers to rates or prices. Look, it's not bad news – we want to recognize it, of course not – but it's absolutely insufficient. I, count! – you didn't do it, counselor, but this government is doing it – these rates, with the wording of Article 13..., doesn't mean that everything has to be devoted to the wages and salaries of workers and workers. What it expresses – Article 13 – is a finalist criterion. And we, the CUP Subgroup, make ourselves available, from the technical point of view, to solve it today itself. We have a text that says that the increase in rates and prices is dedicated exclusively to the wage mass and that it is determined this increase on the part of the legitimate subjects to collective bargaining. And it's settled. Therefore, we are doing all the criticism of the world, counselor, but we are putting an alternative behind the other. And to finish: look, that you are publicly reaching out to me already seems to be a daily spectacle; but, counselor, that does not affect the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans, and above all that does not affect those Catalans and those Catalans that we are most painted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.14.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, I'll talk to you about football. When a team fails, and the department team has failed in this legislature several times – the management of the allue of the minor immigrants, the residences, the payment to the residences, now the autonomies –, what gets used to is that the coach is changed, not the team. And this is a decision that I'm used to taking the directive. And we understand that the directive is a government that at this point in time is a coral government, in which each one of us thinks he is trying to definate, more than the travets that are between them. But more than that, it's a functioning government and, curiously – they remembered it the first day after their own party – the government can't stop it. When these circumstances are given, what happens is that the coach, for the benefit of the team and before I make mistakes – that I think they're about to commit them – is that the coach is leaving the team and that a new coach is coming, or his second assumes the responsibilities. And I'm saying this because I think the team is about to make mistakes. I will not say, like other speakers, that the competitive competition system is not a good system because it helps them get to whom they need them quickly. But three variables have to be taken into account: the unitary import of aid – in the case of the autonomous two_ thousand_euros–, the total import of what is available – in the case of the autonomous 20_ million–, and the universe to which it is intended – in the case of the autonomous more than five hundred_ thousand people in Catalonia. Yeah, more than five-hundred-thousand people in Catalonia. Therefore, he is sentenced to the frail – he is sentenced to the frail. Because in the best of cases – that is to say, in case the platform works correctly – they will find themselves as they have found themselves: with two thousand self-satisfied because they have accessed the help and have accessed it quickly, and with 390,000 entrepreneurs, that they were already there because of the situation they are living, and they will be one more because they have the said spent pressing the F5 key, because more than that the platform has failed. It was obvious that this could fail. Now, that you now decide to stop and rethink the help to the sector of culture – which is the second part of the second chapter of the decree that we are debating –..., to rethink it. I would say to them: I quickly evaluate the three variables that I have mentioned. I have made the numbers now at a time: aid units, 750_euros; total import, 3,696,612_euros. What universe do we have, counselor? You must have known; I don't. But I'm already saying, if the universe is bigger than 4,928 people, they're going through the process, but if it's smaller, they're going through the process, because it's viable, regardless of whether the platform works or not. I want to wait for this universe to work. But if it's smaller than that, they don't catch up with it, pull it forward, because here are people waiting for that help too. I can give you a clue: in Decree 21 you approve aid to the cultural sector for a value of 5_million euros. There are 3,700,000 left, which are the ones who are going back to the culture sector today. At that time the aid was 1,200 euros. There were a thousand_100 people who in competition did not compete and asked for that help– a thousand_cent. Therefore, I understand that the universe to which the cultural aids were allocated is less than the 4,928 people I have mentioned. So I don't get caught up in it. This one can work. This one's on condition to work. So they don't make any more mistakes. And it's a shame that with this decree we have to focus our interventions on these aids, which are obviously important. But there is one thing that is still more, that is the increase in tariffs for the provision of social services to large, dependent people, people with disabilities, people with mental health problems..., which is good news, but they are scarce. But we can't spend too much time on it, because the news and the release is first in the autonomies, and we hope it's not repeated now in the realm of culture. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. MPs, MPs, in this context of coronavirus, with the crisis not only health care, but social crisis, economic crisis already, the government, you know, has made one thing clear: that the most was to help the people, and to accompany the people and the sectors that were most patenting and that are most difficult to pass. And, therefore, along with restrictive measures to protect health and to prevent contagious diseases, call measures, and call social measures and economic measures. That is to say, the measures of shoc should go in parallel with the restrictive measures. This has been the Government's maximum, which has always been very clear from the first moment on, whether it can be done or complaining to whom it can also do so. Why? So to help the people. And, therefore, I say to the deputy of Ciutadans, that he said that this government did not have any strategy. So look, yes, the strategy is clear: to help people, to mobilize all resources; all the more. There's enough to say he's outdone it. They're mobilizing all the resources to help people, to target who they need. The money's going to be in the box, the calaix. They're all going to the people. All the more. They'll generate a deficit. So, yes, there is strategy: to help people, to mobilize all resources; unlike Ciutadans, what he sees doing here is always this irresponsible and even disrespectful criticism of the councilor or the government and dehumanizing politics. He said that this decree, therefore, goes to the conclusion of this: how can we help the people, with all the limitations we have. But what precisely does it is to establish new social measures that affect various areas – the counselor has already explained – and that they aim at addressing the consequences of the health crisis, the social crisis generated by the pandemic. It regulates, for one band, all support actions for self-employed workers – we have not talked about and I will talk about it later – support actions for cultural workers – this extraordinary support of EUR 750 for professional and technical people in the performing arts, visual arts and music, the audiovisual sector and other cultural activities that have been suspected, with this assumption that around EUR 3,7 million. A measure, an action, an aid that has been put to rest since last week, since it has been proved that, indeed, the mechanism was not the best. Since last week. So, no more lying, it didn't stop last night; last night a web page that had been hung up a few days ago explaining the process, but the call wasn't launched, it wasn't done. So, be more precise and more curios, too, that's not all. Third thing that regulates this decree and implements: measures related to the price of social services. This increase in rates and prices for the better – and we are very happy that this is the case – of the working and remunerative conditions of the workers of the social service network of the public service. These 35_millions go to the big people sector, to the people sector with disabilities and also to the realm of childhood, and which, in effect, compliments the political compromise assumed in the law of the guild assumptions. Plus, this has retroactive effects from this year's pest. Here, in these measures, these 3.5_millions are to be added to the extra costs incurred by the entities in the field of protected childhood, as well as the extraordinary help for the families who are in the neighbourhood between March and December of this year in which we find ourselves. And it also modifies, this decree, or also includes, this decree, changes in various areas: for a band, increase in the import of the previous decree intended to promote and facilitate the regularization of people – who are mostly women – who work in the field of cures, which we also celebrate is possible to expand, this measure; it extends the period of execution of the projects of entities that have received subsidies in the field of fight against masculist violence – some help that stands out in the pact against male violence, and, therefore, it is also easier for entities that have received grants in the field of fight against masculist violence, therefore, to execute these projects not only this year, but also the year, and also the time of execution of the projects against masculist violence, and, therefore, it is also easier for them to integrate the power, therefore, to execute these projects not only this year, but also the year, and also the time frame of the special centers, in the context of the integration of the special centers, in this That's all I'm backing up this decree. A decree that, of course, is an instrument that must allow us to deploy all these measures. That said – and we're first, the counselor did it, I think he extended it to members of the government and we did it here again and we'll do it the times you need – we also recognize the mistakes, we also self-criticize and we recognize when, finally, things don't turn out the way we want them to. In fact, making decisions often involves making mistakes, unlike those who do not decide or who do not close to them. So it all seems very easy. He said that these helpers to the self-employed, to the self-employed, certainly did not work as intended. He did it the way he could be more agile, faster. But we also recognize that it did not produce the desired effect. And, therefore, when things don't turn out, they have to be rectified, they have to apologize, which is what has been done, and it has to be improved. And that's why the government is working on this new permanent and ongoing support mechanism, which can be agile, can be stable and can mobilize, if necessary, more resources. So he's working. And we have to say that the fact that aid is insufficient – which we share; we would like to mobilise all resources, many, many more – is because of presuppositionary limitations, not by lack of political will. And here is a very clear example that has been linked to political will or not: while the Generality, with all the presuppositionary limitations it has, deploys decrees and helps to help the citizenry, in this case autonomists or workers, the State pushes the quota. Yeah, the state's pushing their quota. And that's political will and not presuppositionary limitations. And, therefore, we find that this self-criticism that we are today missing so many times, but that we find it missing in opposition groups and above all in those groups that are part of or support the Government of the Spanish State. Because I would like to see this very criticism, with the same kindness that the Socialists' deputy has done today, for example, claiming that he is doing what is also close to the Government of the Spanish State. Because you said before the dilemma between swift and just; so look, between swift and just, you, the PSC, the PSOE, the Government of the State, have sorted things out, because there has been no measure of direct aid to the people and sectors affected; in this case, the Government of the State has not mobilised any direct aid – it has not mobilised any direct aid. And the Spanish State is the one with the resources, no, unfortunately, Catalonia. And really we ask, to the deputy of Catalonia in Comú Pode, if the question you ask us here why we have not mobilized more resources, if it is serious this question or has a point of irony. Or is it just that they have adjusted why we want to be a republic and why we want to be a state? Precisely to have all the resources, all the tools and all the skills and not to remain limited, as we are so far, that at times as complicated as the current ones we cannot help people for, precisely, this not having all the resources. Resources that the State does have and that may be guarding them in the box, because it has not mobilized direct and final help to people and families and the sectors that most need it. I repeat: we do all the self-criticism, yes. Learning, thinking, that's what the government does and what it's going to do next. So he's working on it. That this two chapters of this decree, that one didn't work and the other was done, so they can get back as soon as possible. Nine help. What people expect from us are solutions and not resignations – they are solutions and not resignations – they are answered and help people and be on the side of who needs it most. That's what people expect from us, and that's what we're also transferring to the government, which is what we need to do as we're doing. What people expect of us are solutions and not just criticisms of the comfort of opposition, where everything is very simple, always, when decisions are not to be made. And so we also want to put in value that changes have been made to the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families. Yes, they do, regardless of the months left for the possible elections; they do when they have to, when they think they can be useful precisely to help people and to do all the procedures as best they can. And here let me, the last seconds that remain of my intervention, thank all the work to the Secretary General until now of the department, Mr. Josep Ginesta, also to the Secretary of Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Cesc Iglesies, precisely for all the work and dedication and also, especially, in these months so complicated that we have suffered these last days the citizenship of our country. Some changes that you think can help to give this new perspective and tendency to two key areas in the government, above all to be able to continue helping both in the social sphere and in the field of work to all people who need it. Therefore, also wish the enclosure to the people who are now taking responsibility. We will continue to work from co-responsibility at this complex moment and, therefore, we will continue to support the Government so that it will continue to do its utmost to help people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.17.0	Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.18.0	... to correct when it comes to – I finish, President – but also to help people and to keep going. Therefore, we reiterate our support for the validation of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Jordi Munell. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Honourable Counselor, Members and Members, well, in this case, the processing of this decree, as we have seen, from opposition raises viscerality, right? , not so much in those measures that we, as the government we support, must take to deal with the complex social and economic situation of this pandemic. Therefore, more than putting into value these contributions that are made to the whole care system, necessary for another band – compromises too, it is true, it has already been said –, in this case it focuses very much on the issue of help to the autonomous, the help also to the professionals of the world of culture. And, therefore, here we have been feeling different "beasties" – between comets – or even miracles of loaves and fishes, on the part of the group of commons, with the thousands of millions that they say we have. Let's start with the thousands of millions, these 3,000, plus 800, plus 300 that the deputy from the group of commons said, who might have to be a minister of economics because I see that makes them go very quickly. These funds that arrive in Catalonia – it is certain that they arrive, I will not deny that it is true – are, in any case, special funds to deal with the Covid, for sanitation, for education, for assistance, for mobility, for the fall in tax collection, for the small and own tax collection that Catalonia has, and, therefore, they must be distributed to all these sectors, that all of them are essential. Therefore, if we make rapid numbers, as the deputy of the PP, Mr Rodríguez, has also said, 520,000 autonomes in Catalonia – it is the community that has more..., the reality of micro-entrepreneurs and, therefore, of the entrepreneurial initiative; 520,000 autonomes would like to say 1,040_million euros only destined for this, that is, a third of these funds that arrive from the State. But, I repeat, sanitation is essential, health – and more in this situation – and the over-expenditure there has been. And education? What about assistance? The residences, the disabled, the people? So they don't give much, these three thousand, if you decount them, huh? And so, obviously, you don't get to all of them. Like you don't get to all of them, so the government of the generality, to which the citizenry... I already said that to the last plenary. Citizenship, in the Government of the Generality to which we support, requires state measures – requires state measures. But we're not a summer. We are one of the so-called autonomous communities that are dependent on all these foundations that must come to us. But we are required to act as a country, as we want to be, without resources. And, for example, also like a cipher, he says: "It is that this allocation of 3,000_millions to Catalonia..., it is the one that has more or the second that has more. Yes, yes, but look, a city of Madrid rep 511_euros per person, a city of Catalonia in rep 431. So look, there's already a difference from the city, right? And, therefore, we're not all the same. Here we have to take state measures, and the resources that we have someone has said: "It is when the Generalitat manages," he says, "that misery appears. Yes, yes, misery, yes, and as long as it appears! Misery, because we do not have the resources that citizenship requires of us, for which our government would like to act as a state, by responsibility and also by vocation. The parties we support the government are the parties of vocation to be independent, so that we can have the resources we can and manage them as best we can and will know; but in this case, we can't do it. We've got measurement ideas, we don't have resources, and we've got to go running these months. And, obviously, every time I take a measure is insufficient? Obviously. It passed with the tourism sector in June and July; it has passed now unfortunately also with the autonomies; it will or may be expected to pass in the field of culture. The resources are limited, there must be reports of the Intervention of each department and of the General Intervention of the Generality, and, therefore, must be established ways to be able to complete all the legalities and that at once they are fast. And so, when you know that there are very limited resources and very many businesses or professionals that can ask for it, so you have to articulate through saying: "Listen, for now let's move forward what is possible and make expansions of the credit in order to be able to go to everyone. This was done by the Department of Enterprise with the trade sector and the tourism sector; the Department of Labour has now done so with the locals, with the professionals of culture, and, therefore, the government's will is to expand; to expand to the extent that resources are available and, moreover, to take into account that many different sectors are to be found. Obviously, the sector of the economy, of the professionals, of the different areas – obviously – affected with different degrees of affectation; but also, as I said before, also the essential services, the services that care for people, that care for the most vulnerable people, education, sanitation, mobility, huh? At the last plethora, the demand was to increase mobility. It must also be ensured that it is sustainable and that we can keep resources, and then no one remembers the lack of investment in structures, huh? In any case, I insist on this subject. I will also make use of a comparison, a comparison and an affirmation, it has already been said: the only state in Europe that has not made direct aid to its professionals, businesses, citizens or entities is the Spanish State. To the United Kingdom, help three thousand dollars a month; to Scotland, help two thousand or three thousand dollars a month– to companies, eh? I was relieved to say the details; Belgium was also expected to receive aid of between three and nine thousand euros according to the size of the company; France was also expected to receive compensation for up to two thousand euros, aid of 1,500 euros per month per month; Germany was expected to spend up to 75 per cent of its billing, it was expected to spend 10,000 million euros, etc. Spain is the only one that has done at this time is to give endorsements and official credits, that is, to promote the indebtedness of professionals and businesses. Direct aid has not given, and who has given it is the Government of Catalonia since June. With what resources? Man, obviously, with the few that he has, and with the few that get him from the state, which is who collects the taxes and taxes of our country. And with this you have to do miracles, the miracle of the loaves and the fish, the miracle of the water and the vine, sometimes, right? And he has to do it that way, and so he has to do it with these thirty-nine... certainly. He said: "There have been thirty-nine decrees. - Yes, yes. "Listen to me, couldn't you have made a sun?" Surely, if we had all this ability, as well as economics as it has a state, it might have made itself different, yes, sir, huh? And that's why we want to be a state, because we could take state measures, which is what the citizenry claims and deserves. But we can't do it because we don't have unlimited resources and we have to manage them, and we have to manage them as far as we get there. And welcome as they are, yes, but we have to go to the administration to the extent that they arrive in all the essential sectors. And as they're not infinite, we have to run them and, so, they go through things like these that have happened. That we wouldn't want it? Of course we wouldn't want to. What's better? Of course it can get better. Did you apologize? He's asked for forgiveness from the government. What can be done by extending the credit? The credit needs to be extended. We must be able to reach everyone who needs it, everyone who has suffered it. And I think that today's intervention should not only focus on these parts of direct aid, but also put into value the aid that is being given and the recovery of value that is being given to the whole of our country's care service, which is so important, and which has been so and so focused to deal with the situation. And so... plus, this month of November we celebrated World Day of Carers. Today, with this decree we support this fee for these care workers and, therefore, I believe that this is also the importance of today's decree, which we are bringing here today to validate, huh? , that this importance did not remain attached to the other subject. Listen, what do we have to get to all the autonomies? Surely the government's will would be so; surely not all are equally affected. Do we have to get to all the professionals of culture? I'm sure. They're not all equally affected either. Just as the Department of Enterprise did, so in June and July, as I said before, also with the world of commerce, with the world of tourism and, therefore, we must try to reach all. What's missing? Sufficient and unlimited resources are lacking; I already know that it is impossible, but in any case, more resources would certainly be needed. I also wanted to make a point, in this case of a news report by José Antich, which says: "At this time, the most progressive government in history, the government of the PSC and common, is escapulating its main responsibility in this second phase of the pandemic. He says: "The government needs to open the aid line and transfer to the communities the economic resources that they do not have, in significant quantities, now in order to cope with the despair of the citizens. Don't take any longer than it should help, help and help. I repeat what I said before: the only state in Europe that has not made direct aid is Spanish, which has done so is the Government of Catalonia, without having the capacity to be a state, because economically it does not have it, but the will to have it. And, besides, the parties that we support the government for that we fight and work, to have a state close to us, to be able to have resources, to be able to do better, and to be able to serve the citizenry as it is needed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the validation of this decree is going to vote at the end of the day, like the rest of the points we'll deal with on this day. [[Motion for a resolution on the holding of a specific debate in committee on the Next Generation fund]] [[250-01572/12]] We pass now to the next point, which is the eighth of the order of the day, and which corresponds to the debate of the Motion for a resolution on the celebration of a specific debate in commission on the Next Generation fund. In the first place the three groups and sub-groups signing the proposal will intervene, in this case the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans, Socialists and Units for Progress, Catalonia in Comú Pode and the Sub-group of the People's Party of Catalonia. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.22.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Vice-President, very good morning to everyone again. In this motion for a resolution we are talking about the European funds and the need to organise a specific debate between the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance and the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge to assess precisely the work that this Government is doing to empower and select projects that will form part of the European funds called Next Generation EU. And the first thing I want to highlight in this debate is that as Europeans we have made a historic decision: in the face of a pandemic we have chosen to take a step forward and put on the table EUR 750,000_million for the recovery and resilience of our economy, which suffers and will suffer one before and one after the Covid-19. That means that if we do our homework well and things don't go wrong, Spain will receive funds for a total amount of about 140,000_million_euros. And, therefore, it is an opportunity for Spanish companies, including SMEs, which have to be protagonists, to mobilize long-term projects and investments, to boost and realize the transformations that our economy needs, to ensure the creation of wealth and decent wages within a sustainable economy. And these funds we are going to receive as part of a great project, with three basic lines: a structural reform of our economy, the essential ecological transition and digitisation. Therefore, before this motion for a resolution, the first thing we need to highlight is our membership as Spaniards in the European Union. And what seems obvious is essential to mark it in a Parliament like this, where there are some political groups that intend to raise a border between citizens and separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain. And look at the significance, because that is as much as eliminating our autonomous community from the European Union and discarding that of these historical funds that are now on the table. Therefore, if we are to count on these European funds it is because Spain belongs to the European Union, because as Spaniards we did all the necessary procedures in their day to be full members, and that allows us access to all these resources. And it is important to remember what we need to do so that we do not lose sight of and that we can be clear about the purpose of these funds. These European funds have to be used to relaunch the Spanish economy and, therefore, also the Catalan economy, taking into account the strong impact that the pandemic is having on our country. We therefore have to see it as an emergency instrument, an instrument of transformation with which we have decided to equip ourselves as Europeans and which we cannot miss. And I tell you this because this reality clashes with the world of identity fiction of separatist politicians, and this is one of our cautions. It is not here that as Catalans we make war on our own; what it is about is to take advantage of all the synergies, all the talent we have as Spaniards to make the best use of all these resources. And here comes another of the values that is not present in the separatist parties, those that are unable to look beyond the time map of TV3 and that have real aversion to coordinate with the rest of Spain. And I remarque that I always talk about separatist politicians, because the vast majority of Catalans do know how to do it, they coordinate and seek synergies with the rest of Spain. And one of the objectives of this motion for a resolution for the parliamentary group that I represent is nothing other than to check that this Government has this global concept in mind, because, if it does not, we cannot make the most of all these European funds with maximum efficiency and efficiency. This is going to be a six-monthly plan for the bodies of the European Union that will only make resources available to us if we strictly justify the funds we receive. Therefore, you cannot take it as a blank check. And it is essential to mobilise as many projects as possible, projects that best fit the parameters set by the European Union, where one of the objectives of the future is to achieve a competitive and sustainable industry. It is not an easy task, it is a lot of resources and very conditioned, and we will have to make a great effort to take advantage of them. We need to get companies, and especially SMEs, to introduce innovation into their DNA. Coordination with universities and research centres will be essential to attract as much talent as possible. We have a great challenge ahead of us and we want them to explain to us in Parliament how they are going to mobilise all these projects. Historically, the Government of the Generalitat has had to return European funds, and that cannot happen this time. And we will also monitor this government's activity to prevent a single euro being lost along the way, which is also very much given to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the words of Mrs.Alícia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.24.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, deputies and deputies. Well, we planned to put forward this motion for a resolution because it seems to us that the news of the approval of these European foundations that would bring to the Spanish State €750,000_million to ensure a sustainable, fair, equitable and inclusive recovery, transforming our economy with structural reforms, seems to us to be a rather important issue as the Catalonian Parliament can talk about. And so far, so, we haven't had the luck that the government has been talking to us about, like at least in an open and participatory way. Projects to present to the European Foundation will be presented between October – last month – and April 2021. And, therefore, it seems to us that it is important that, bearing in mind that there will be some elections very soon, before the end of the legislature we can debate a little serious and rigorous on which grounds, which projects Catalonia should present. And, therefore, it seems interesting to us, therefore, that, from the approval of these funds and of what Catalonia will have to present, we can make a commission, a monographic and specific debate on this, between two commissions, that of Enterprise and that of Economy, for debate between us. I think it's important and that maybe we can come to some conclusions about what are the important areas in which Catalonia would have an impact on these foundations. I don't think these funds are a lot of money to share. It is not a source of ‘come, we distribute here what touches us by people. It's a lot to share. I believe that these 750.000_million euros will come to Catalonia, because the important thing here is to establish foundations that are territorial, that is, that are jointly done with the local world, also with other autonomous communities or even with other countries, that are international projects, that seek alliances in public and private. Mariana Mazzucate said that, if we are lucky that the public and private sector find common missions, we are able to do extraordinary things. So this is about the European Foundation, which, if it presents projects, with public-private collaboration, with – why not? – alliances with other countries, with the local world, which is in the end the territory where there are companies, is where there is knowledge. And, therefore, we believe that it is important that we be able to reflect on this aspect. Catalonia has many forts, it's true, but it also has some fevers. So let's see if we are able to strengthen these strengths and also to improve these fevers that we have, to be more competitive, to be stronger in the face of a future crisis. Obviously, knowledge has to be the most relevant main vector here. And, therefore, I believe that with universities, the research centers that Catalonia has, here we can make a strong commitment if we are able to put the necessary resources into projects, therefore, that are really around this knowledge. That's why we think it's important to get away from this, isn't it? This is very typical, sometimes, in Catalonia: "What is it that touches me? What's he gonna do to me? Do you have to split it up? No, it's not a matter of sharing, it's a matter of doing good projects, strengthening and structuring our economy, and we're still doing it together, with lots of actors, public and private. This will be our fort. The government approved, a few weeks ago, an advisory committee, created by people of renown and much respect for us, but we obviously do not participate in it, nor do we know what is being discussed in this committee chaired by the vice president and where there is also the Tremosa Councillor. We would also like to be able, in a way, to participate in it or, as a minimum, to convey what seems to us to be that the Parliament of Catalonia, which represents all the citizens of this country, believes where the projects we present as the country should go. It seems to me that it is a very relevant issue because it is not done with an advisory committee, taking into account the work done by the Coreco in July and in which parliamentary groups did not participate either; it is to say, without participation, without transparency, something that we already have a lot of habit of this government. That is why it is a very simple proposal to make a specific monographic debate between two commissions, to do so in the next month, before the end of the legislature. This is what this motion for a resolution calls for, which I hope, therefore, that today is approved, and what I would ask the chairman of the two committees is that it is possible, if this motion for a resolution is approved, to see today itself which day or two days you can look for to make this debate, to search for the appearances that seem appropriate and to have a debate that brings us some conclusions that will also serve this advisory committee. I believe that it is also important for Parliament to say what it seems to it about the foundations that must have such an impact and must be so important for our economy and for our transformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr David Cid has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.26.0	Thank you, President. They always tell us that all the debates in Parliament are relevant and important, but probably the debate on European foundations is one of the most relevant debates for the future of Catalonia, I don't know whether of the next years or of the next decade. And we have the feeling that it's a debate that doesn't exist in Catalan public opinion, but it doesn't exist in Parliament either, does it? He's making reference to it now. In fact, there is the commitment of the Government of the State that the autonomous communities will execute 50_percent of the funds coming from the European Union. We are talking, therefore, about a very high volume of resources that should not only help us to cope with the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, but also in all the challenges that Catalonia has of changing the model of production, of re-launching research, science, of the ecological transition necessary to be fair, also, obviously, of how to cope with the industrial crisis that Catalonia is suffering. Therefore, they are central elements that we have the opportunity, through the projects that are present, to be able to face the future of Catalonia and to leave this lost decade of Mas and Rajoy, of detail and austerity. And we have the feeling that it's a matter of stealing, that's to say, that it doesn't exist. There is an advertising campaign by the Government, which we would also like to know how much it cost, which has been explaining that there will be 30,000_million euros in the next few years; that this is not good enough, because what we have to do is to present projects that should be as competitive as possible because they can be financed, but there is no parliamentary dialogue, there is no dialogue with the Catalan political forces, and there is no dialogue, nor with the social agents, who have also complained. That is to say, there is a committee of experts – I think that from a recognizable level, I don't say no – but I think it should be a country debate, that is, the conjunction of the Catalan society, of social agents, of economic agents, and I think that it doesn't exist. Or, I don't know, at this point in time, who are the projects where the Government of the Generality is working to present why they are funded by European funds. I think it's important that we can contribute and discuss, and that we can also guide, because, probably, we may have nuances. When it comes to, for example, 40 per cent of the projects have to face the ecological transition or another part of the projects have to face the technological transition, I think it's important that we discuss what these projects are, right? And I think that this debate, as I said, as at least I don't have the feeling that it is projected in terms of country and that it is projected, too, in terms of political debate in Catalonia. Different, for example, from what is happening at the level of the State. And here is a complaint, for example, also about social workers. The other day there was a meeting of different ministers with representatives of social workers to begin to face this debate. This, we have no awareness that it has been produced in Catalonia. In fact, as trade union officers at least complain that there is no such thing..., there is this same government coordination committee and there is this committee of experts. I think it's good that we have a parliamentary debate, which is what the government is looking for, where the government is moving, to the band of the headlines... I also told the Tremosa councillor that they would be presenting..., or so on, that they would ask the business sector for a hundred projects that would set up the ones that are moving. Who are these hundred projects? Who decided them? Who proposed them? With what orientation? Do they complete the objectives or not that mark the European Union? I think it's a debate that we need to have and that, as I said, can mark the next decade in Catalonia. I'm convinced that Catalonia has a future, a future like society, a future like the country, but we have to face the challenges that we already had before the pandemic and that they've certainly made it worse now, right? , is to say, the inequality that grows in Catalonia, the ecological transition in a climate-emergency context, the industrial crisis. I therefore believe that this must obviously be part of our political debate, and that is what we are today, too, clearly presenting the set of groups that we asked for this debate, which, as I have said, I hope we can do before the end of the parliamentary term. In fact, when we complained that there was an urgent need for elections, I had to see this. We have a government in place that is broken and stalled, that surely what should be working and discussing is what these projects are for the next decade of Catalonia, and do so together with Catalan society. The projects I'd like to remind you that they're going to be showing up until April. We also want to know if, really, the Catalan government, in the band of brawling and criticizing in public, therefore, is working on these projects, and being able to discuss them together, from the point of view we offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.28.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, yes, one has the feeling, in this respect, that the Government is confined. The government's been confined for a few months, isn't it? Confined, at least, respects Parliament. And also, respect what questions. When we come to discuss the Supreme Court's judgments, therefore, we must call for urgent sittings; when we must talk about the monarchy, we must also call for urgent sittings. But on the other hand, on all the work related to economic recovery, or social protection, or to..., for example, projects related to these European foundations to reactivate the economy, of these things the costs more than the government interrelations with Parliament. But not only with Parliament, but also with social workers, the government has a hard time relating. Hence, this feeling that, in these aspects, the Government is confined. It was the month of May that the Government created this commission for the development of the Economic Reactivation and Social Protection Plan. I was on the 21st of July, that the government approved this plan. But let's face it: it was so controversial, this decision, that social workers and employers and trade unions were complaining to the government. Why say: "Listen to me, we want to participate in this plan. We have ideas, we want to talk to the government, we want to work things out so we can move forward. Because, in the end, then, who will have to throw all these things away with the support of the government will have to be the entrepreneurs and they will also have to be the unions. As a result of this lack of participation of social workers in this plan, they were forced to sign a basic agreement of the Economic Reactivation and Social Protection Plan, which they signed with the unions, just the day before the government approved the plan in which no unions or entrepreneurs had participated. After, or before, June, the Government appoints a committee of experts to draw up the Catalonia 2022 project, of which we have knowledge of its objectives and its work, because the members of the committee of experts have contacted the parliamentary groups to explain to us what their task is, to explain to us what they are doing, to explain to us what their timetable is, not because the Government wanted to share with the Parliament or with the parliamentary groups the objectives of this committee of experts. And then, in October, they also named the fund advisor committee Next Generation. Well; and in the end, the projects to be carried out on these European foundations are projects that will come from the committee of assessors, on the one hand; but also from the proposals of the committee of experts, on the other; and also from the plan of the Government. And, therefore, we understand that it is essential for Parliament to participate, as a minimum, in these debates and to know what are the objectives that the Government pursues to present these projects; to know also who are the calendars; to know also what is the way the Government wants to work all these projects. Because, in the end, all this has to be done by benefiting the joint venture of Catalan society. It's not to put medals on one another, it's not to see how we spend money. I don't know if it's 50 or not 50, the one I'm supposed to be. We have already said this one day: here it is not a matter of asking for resources, but of making projects that serve the benefit of the Catalan society's joint venture and making this economic recovery so necessary possible; but also in the field of social protection, which will be necessary in the proper months. Therefore, this is the will of this motion for a resolution: that there be this joint committee in which the Vice-President and the Business Council are present. And so we can share and we can discuss what is the government's understanding of the European Union's foundation, these Next Generation foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to position herself, the Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Maria Sirvent, has the word in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.30.0	Thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. We believe that this motion for a resolution is very necessary and that, moreover, this is a very important debate. They've already told me about other Members who preceded me in the paragraph. In fact, we, respecting these foundations, have been extracting information from a report or study made by the Observers of the Debt in Globalization, Ecologists in Action and OMAL. We are talking about 750.000_million euros. For the Spanish State, EUR 140,000_million; 70,000 in direct grants and 70,000 in banking loans. We're talking about a very large amount and we're talking about a paradigm shift that we've never seen in history. And, therefore, we are talking about grants that, if we compare them with other European funds, such as the Feder or the H2020, we are talking about that the Next Generation EU is five times more in grants than the Spanish State normally receives in European funds. These foundations either have the whole structure or follow the European Union's views. In fact, there is now a suspension, as you know, of the Stabilisation and Growth Pact in the European Union. Which means that now we can skip the gap relief, but at any time in the future it will reactivate and, therefore, we will find ourselves with the same situation before. And, therefore, all the money coming from the Next Generation that is, above all, of loan, and that will increase the debts of the countries, can suppose an intervention in future austerity measures. And, therefore, we are getting on some ground that they are also very close to this European architecture to finance. We find ourselves with conditionalities and control over spending on this fund. And, therefore, this foundation is also converted into a new intervention on the sovereignty of the states and, in particular, of the countries of southern Europe. That said, and given this structural criticism, these foundations will come and, therefore, we need to know how they will be destined and what consequences they will have for future generations. In this case, what we are seeing is a very clear trend, because there are many bureaucratic barriers, very strong barriers to get these money, a very strict control and a very fast speed to present the projects, and many consultants who are today doing business, precisely, to present projects for these foundations. Who has this ability? Who has the ability to access some of the grounds that their majority will be stuck in the year 2021 and, therefore, already? So big multinational transnationals, that will be the first to steal money from these funds. The lack of clarity of the procedure is excessive and exaggerated. You don't know anything about how you're going to approve. For the time being, projects are coming together, but we don't know what the validation process will be for the State. There are a lot of projects and also a lot of reforms. What part of the state is left to reform? How will they be distributed among autonomous administrations? Who will the political and strategic objectives be to serve these foundations? They don't know exactly how to do it. And we also think that the capitalist green consensus will make that, in many cases, on the basis or on account of public money of all, we pay green transitions, green capitalism, to certain businesses. And, mirin, now we're going to the government. And it's not worth opening a portal to collect projects. It is not worth doing without a support office, with planning means accompanying this whole bureaucracy – in the justifications, in the procedures – precisely those small businesses that want to access these funds, to help projects with potential. We're talking about spending this money – I suppose they have to agree with me – on the economy. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish – local and cooperativeism. And so, if that's what it is, I'm dropping a support office for the Government of the Generality because these small projects can have a government support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Congressman Ernest Maragall has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.32.0	Thank you, President. We're talking about the future today. We're talking about European foundations that still don't know when and how they're going to get there, okay, and we're talking about how we're going to get ready for it if we're going to manage them well, huh? Okay, it's very important. We have, in any case, that – as I say? – there is no future without it. And today, we should be talking about a European foundation of subsistence in order to cope with the current health-care situation, which is producing an enlargement and a chronification of the limitations to the economic activity of so many sectors, of hundreds of thousands of professionals, entrepreneurs, traders, autonomists, etc. Today it is also up to us to send a message to the European Union and the Member States – to the Spanish State, in particular – because they immediately adopt the fiscal and economic measures sufficient to compensate for the sacrifices we have demanded, which we have demanded, that we are demanding from so many citizens. A sacrifice that has gone from scoring the sectorial and exceptional to being continued, systematic and massive. I repeat: without this worthy future there is no acceptable future. So let's talk about this immediate future and how we guarantee that the projects coming out of the Next Generation EU Funds that are finally selected and executed are the ones that we really need as a country and as a society. We have two essential, and very important, previous fish: the plan for economic recovery and social protection that the Government adopted last July; and now, also, this committee of experts, the CAT-EU CONEXT, formed for women and men of first professional rank and accredited servants of the country in many different fields. A committee that inspires our trust and that constitutes the best starting point for the collective responsibility exercise that will involve promoting, identifying and evaluating Next Generation projects. We're not standing by or waiting, are we? The projects are in the oven, they're preparing, they're developing. All the opposite of standing and inactive. We know that there are a good name of projects in one or another institution, company, point of the country. To the same government of Catalonia, of course, as is well known; but also to the deputies, to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, to the joint ventures and in so many companies. Like yesterday, in Miquel Puig, coordinator of the group of experts, he asked for and asked for and promoted why small and medium-sized Catalan companies came along, huh? Actually, to add project and possibilities and ambition in this process. We aspire to manage, as explained by the Government of Catalonia, up to €30,000_million over these five years. It's a significant amount of resources, which is exactly why we need to know how to apply with a major, with a high degree of self-requirement. We have experienced scandalous experiences in this sense. We all have the list of absurd and antisocial inversions that physically question us of so many reasons of the State. Certainly, the Court of Auditors has just said – European – that, between 2014 and 2020, the Spanish State has been able to spend 39 % of the European waste funds. That can't be repeated. Now it's up to us to prove that things are fan in another way. It seems opportune, therefore, that this Parliament knows firsthand the layout and the objectives with which we last this task. That's why we're picking up this proposal that we're producing a debate in this sense. We are clear, however, that our first concern must be to ensure that the European Union sets the foundations as quickly as possible and that the State establishes the mechanisms for how the foundations will be carried out and that it is well established that the Generality can manage them directly, those that correspond to them, incorporate the active and main role of the local administration – of assemblies, disputations, etc. A whole set of questions will appear in the debate that respects the assessment of these projects: what does it mean to create jobs, what does it mean to be productive, resilient, sustainable, as it has already been in charge of this committee. And naturally we will need to speak of prior and subsequent public assessment as the only way to make decisions that are close to selection, continuity, renewal or revocation. I'm done. The European foundations do not come from heaven, they are also our resources, from all European citizens; also we, the Catalans, the most explicit Europeanists and the most classic of all the stage, we are the ones who have made these 750,000_million appear. This is the measure that is posed to Europe. Sounds like a limited measure to us. A lot of us seem short-lived, huh? But it's what we have and it's what we need to work on. We don't have..., we're not Europe that so many of us are like the common country, like the space of social and political rights. We share, therefore, the opportunity to share the existence of an opportunity, to make our country the best reference of what we want for all European citizens and also for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Juntas for Catalonia. The word has the deputy Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.34.0	Thank you, Vice President. Well, excuse me for saying that we've spent a very hard season at the sanitary level, we're spending a very hard season at the sanitary level and that this has consequences at the economic level, and that the fabric of Catalonia's production, the peppers and the autonomes... are the most punished sectors and often the most unjustly punished, right? In a few moments for the sun to require presence in its establishments to carry out the activity have followed sectors that have been punished – restoration, culture or sports. The approval of these foundations by the European Union, the foundations of recovery and resilience, must be a fundamental part of the outcome of this crisis, and if we know how to take advantage of them and adapt them to the new productive and equity needs that we have, we can get out strengthened. These foundations should be used to address aspects as diverse as the challenge of Industry 4.0 in the economy; the transformation of the entire automotive sector, which is so important in Catalonia; the need for a green economy industry, huh? , that more than harnessing energy, it is able to create instruments to capture it, to use it or to store it; a technologically advanced health system, or to make Catalonia a destination of reference for making a sustainable and innovative tourism world-wide, an innovative tourist destination at world level that is appreciated as such. And the priorities of this foundation go in this sense: the ecological transition, the digital transition, sustainable mobility, decarbonization, the internet of things, electric vehicles or energy storage. They are priorities that adapt to the conditions and socioeconomic reality of Catalonia. From the good management of these foundations of the European Union will emerge an economy and a society that is able to generate more added value and that we are prepared for when another crisis comes, that unfailingly – sooner or later will come – the citizens, the businesses, the Catalan society in general have more opportunities and better prospects than the less affected. And it is that in Catalonia these foundations find an excellent substrate to be able to develop. Pimes, more than half a million pimes, half a million large pemes; 8,900 multinationals; innovation; talent; universities that have fantastic search areas, fantastic search centers– which we need to deepen in the transfer of knowledge from these universities and from these business search centers–; tradition in public-private collaboration. The resources of European funds must go to products that improve Catalonia's competitiveness and GDP, regardless of the size of the companies, whether they share or not at IBEX 35, and regardless of whether they are empty to watch football matches. Regardless of all this, you should get into the fabric product. And, in this sense, that the Government of Spain manages exclusively from Madrid these foundations is not good news. We thought the General should have a co-direction role. Nor is it good news that the most progressive government in the history of the State has contracted four large audits to carry it out. That... I don't know what the postcommunists think, but you don't have to be very progressive. They could have entrusted management to government competitiveness agencies, such as Action, for example. Action could have been involved in the distribution of these resources. Mrs Romero, when Catalonia goes to Europe, in competitive competition processes comes out better than the proportional share of population or the proportional share of wealth that contribute to the European Union. New Catalan clusters capture 6.5_percent of the total call for internationalization projects of the European Union's pimes. Seventy-eight clusters of twenty countries were presented there. Catalonia is only the 1.5_per_cent of the population of the European Union. We will support this proposal, because in managing these foundations we play a lot. If we do that, more competitive economic sectors will emerge, allowing for a better distribution of wealth and greater equity, and we will have a better country, because the people who live there and society will live better. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the interventions, the reminder that the vote on this motion for a resolution has a place in the late afternoon, once the question has been substantiated, the point is dissected, together with the rest of the votes planned, and, since there are no papers presented, the original text presented for the groups will be voted on. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into social policies to deal with the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[302-00257/12]] Let's now move on to the dividing point of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on social policies in order to face the crisis of the Covid-19; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose the young man, has the word deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.36.0	Good morning, again. We are debating this motion the week that the government at the hands of the same councillor has recognized that this department, the Department of Social Affairs, is a disaster. It has been for various fires and mistakes, some of which are very thick, such as the management of residences during the Covid crisis, but for those we follow and control from the beginning of this legislature this department we know that it has been a department that has failed for many more themes. In fact, in my previous question to the plenary, which is the origin of this young man, I gave to the councilman that this has been a lost legislature in policies of social protection and fighting inequality. And I didn't say that because I did. I am told the data of inequalities, which do not fall, but have increased, and the people perceive it; the people of the sector perceive it, who recognize you that they have not had a good dialogue with this department or responded to their needs, and the citizens in general perceive it. According to the latest CEO, the last September, the citizenry suspects the government as to policies to fight against social inequalities; clearly suspended, in this case. The protection policies in Catalonia have always been weak – they must also be recognised –, they have been particularly weakened with years of economic and inefficient retailing, because they do not reach many of the most disadvantaged sectors. And they haven't changed any of that. As is clear, with the crisis that causes the coronavirus will grow, because the coronavirus, must be said so clearly – and so they also say press headlines –, causes many deaths, but it will still leave much poorer. And we have focused very little on all the pleas, government and also in this Parliament, in this face of the social policies needed at these times, and they can be the most impact in how we overcome this health crisis, because they have an impact in themselves in overcoming the health part, but also in which society we remain for the first time and how long we will try to recover. And in this wake of the crisis management, we also reiterate that the government cannot be a problem, but should be part of the solution. And to be such an attitude, such responsibility, such will and such as to activate all possible tools. You're using resources. The feeling is they've done too much on this subject and too late. I don't care what I spend. I like the fact that Mr Aragones is here, because we are carrying them all day long – yesterday, too, I know – "Gastin" spends. Indebtedness, wasteful. And in this context, in that of social policies, it is a necessary reversal; otherwise, a lot of people – a lot of people – will fall into situations that are much harder to rescue. As it activates all of them with extraordinary procedures, it reduces bureaucracies, creating new ones. Nothing has happened in this sense, nor an extraordinary procedure which we urged during the March confinement to hold back guarantees to the citizenry, nine, agilely, and which then, at the end of a few months, is revised, but which, at the very least, the money flows to those family units that were left without any input. We got them to write a decree on how to do it; we still don't have an answer, counselor, from which we laid down in March. They have not yet resolved the link between the guaranteed income of citizens and the vital minimum income because it is not harmful for people who need to guarantee admissions. What's going on now and what they're doing with the decree that they approved the past state and that the Parliament dropped them – the only one that the Parliament has dropped from the forty decrees that passed through this room to be validated – is to leave the people for months without tickets, all that is possible recipients of guaranteed income or vital minimum income, and leave them to the top of the fame during these months. They have also not taken in millions, as they should have done from an early stage, to reinforce the ingenious effort being made by the municipalities to bring in all kinds of emergency aids, or to strengthen basic social services. Res. And yet we still don't know how much money they're going to spend to attend to the most brutal emergence that is that of people without home, and we're already carrying new pandemics. To try to respond to a good part of what I have put forward is for which we make this motion; for a motion with proposals that this Government can make in operation now; for a motion with proposals for more structural changes that we want to follow the commitments of this Parliament to do when there is a new legislature, and for a third package of measures that we agree to improve from the State, so that we can extend the suspension of denunciations and such basic sub-administrations for everyone during the pandemic, and that we can strengthen the staff of the services of processing economic and social services and of foreign documentation, because there are very important rights that have been recognized, but that they do not arrive if they are not able to manage well for an administration that is detailed later years. I'm done. In this young man we want to show, however, that there is a possible alternative, that it is time to recover great consensus for a reconstruction based on social justice and not to continue to expand injustices and inequalities. We have conditions to make this transformation, a lot of knowledge of the sector, of the professionals, general assumptions of the State that will help it, and above all the clear will of the citizenry to strengthen the rights and public services at these times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend now the papers presented, has the word in the first place the deputy Elisabeth Valencia, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.38.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning, everyone. Counsellor, Members, Members... Well, today we come here to discuss the need to strengthen social policies to help the people who need it most from Catalonia. This health crisis is being devastating, many people are suffering ERW, ERW, destruction of employment, and social entities like Red Creu are warning us that they no longer give of themselves, are at their maximum capacity. They have never seen themselves in this situation and are caring for so many people who for the first time resort to social services. We are in the second wave of the virus and we do not know how long this situation will last, but what we do know is how we have reached this crisis and the government's lack of response to the most important problems of these months. From Citizens we think – and I say this clearly – that having this government seriously harms Catalans. And I explain why. This government has proven to be a bad manager with our tax money. In addition, they are unable to assume their own autonomous skills – incapable. We cannot understand that there is money for high-ranking structures, for embassies, for political chiringuitos, even for Catalan NASA in the middle of the pandemic, but there is no money for people who need it most from Catalonia. Poverty grows every day in our community. Child poverty was already very high before the health crisis, it was already at 31_per_cent, counselor, it will reach 50_per_cent. Older people in dependent status suffer the worst waiting list in Spain: eighty_ thousand people waiting in dependent status. And also the worst waiting list in Spain we have in Catalonia in access to residences, as you well know, counselor. Nor has the Government been able to put in place effective measures to contain the social crisis that comes with health. Support was approved for families most in need of two hundred euros. He arrived late on 28 April and left more than 135,000 families out. These aids are just one day for another, and you know it, counselor. It is inhuman to pass a decree that helps families only for the first ones who come to ask for this help, leaving many families in the gutter. Today they have brought here a decree that comes late and has bits of the budget, with increases of 1_per_cent. What do we propose? We propose to vertebrate social policies in Catalonia once more, we propose greater reinforcement for basic social services, we propose greater budgetary investment for contract programs in coordination with municipalities. We can't leave the city halls alone, giving answers to the worst people who are going through it. We also propose budget investment to reduce the waiting list in dependency, and to reduce the waiting list in residences, as they have done in other autonomous communities, and continue to do. We are also proposing, and we have tabled amendments to this effect, to strengthen home care services. We have also tabled amendments to increase the public housing stock at once. It is urgent, and it is one of the best social policies we can do. We agree that the Guaranteed Income of Citizenship should be implemented more agilely. It's not getting to the people who need it the most. And we must also reformulate income to support families, it is urgent. The risk of poverty is shown to increase in families with dependent children, and the risk of poverty is very high in single-parent families. The Government has done virtually nothing to help families, to support families and to help single-parent families. The motion has points on which we agree, but of course, it comes from Catalonia in Comú, and we are also aware of what happens when Catalonia in Comú is in governments, because without going any further, Mr Pablo Iglesias, vice president of social rights, what it is to work, little. He was disappeared during the health crisis, when what he had to do was lead the response, in coordination with the autonomous communities, to all the problems that had occurred in the residences. He's had a meeting all over the pandemic. Do you think that's enough? And what happens in Barcelona, where you govern? Well, you have a waiting list in social services, for the first visit, of twenty days, Mrs Ribas. Do you think these do a good service? He also has the workers working without means. With you ruling in Barcelona poverty has risen by 24_per_cent. It is clear that for Catalonia you are not a solution either, with your populist promises and your little desire to work. We need a constitutionalist, moderate government that will end, once and for all, the looting of this process. We hope to count on citizenship to replace this government. It's urgent. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.39.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Deputy Jordi Albert has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.40.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsellor, Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament... Well, first of all also thank Congresswoman Ribas the tarannà during the negotiation. In fact, we were able to trade up to three points of the papers that we had submitted and three other papers were also accepted. And so, so, this, I think, too, when we go out to the cliff, we have to point out, that many times it's the speech that we make when we're with the microphones in the front, and the other is the work we do at the back so that today we can get to a document and that this document can be approved for the vast majority of the chamber. And that's also uplifting, because we have to explain these things too. The essential points where we want to put the emphasis are, for example, in the first point of the motion, which speaks of the contract program. We want to explain exactly how it works and what is the negotiating structure of this program contract. That is to say, in the terms that mark us the motion is impossible to complete. On the other hand, it is working and, in fact, it is practically already agreed, an extension by 2021 respects the most uplifting aspects and social needs that we will also have for this year. And what we can't do, either, is that in some elections already called and, therefore, in anticipation of a new government in this country, three months before a program contract is agreed and a program contract that has a duration of four years, from 2021 will be until 2024, three years, and that can encompass more than a million euros. Therefore, before this compromise and this will be the new government that has just closed the proposal, it is important that we ensure legal certainty at the local level and that, therefore, we also ensure this extension in 2021, that all these aspects that are relevant are taken into account, and that today, in the debate that we are having, we are putting them on the table, such as child feeding, such as sensoryism, as a service of home care..., therefore, these social emergency aids; that, certainly, yes, they are also moving to the local level and that, from the same department, they are enabling all support in this sense. Another of the salient elements was guaranteed citizenship income, and here I want to make an important point. It led to the ratification, on the part of this Parliament, of a decree which was agreed by the Government Commission for the Guaranteed Income of Citizens. That decree was not approved. One of the key elements for the non-approval of the decree was, precisely, the harmonization between the services, between the performance of the guaranteed income of citizenship and the vital minimum income. There are other territories, like the Balearics, where they have been, directly, if we define terms so that it is possible..., to demand those who are providers of guaranteed social income to have them, if they do not ask in a definite term the minimum vital income, they lose the benefit of guaranteed social income, and they are totally unemployed. We will not do this here – we will not do this here –, this risk here we do not run. It is therefore important that, first of all, we make it clear that the guaranteed income of citizenship is of subsidiary character, that we make it clear that this character also determines that if we impute on the guaranteed income of citizenship various aids and various benefits, what we end up doing is harming the users of the income, that they will not be able to access other benefits that they currently have. And, therefore, this is one of the key elements that requires this harmonisation, and I appreciate that we may have reached a compromise point in this area. And, finally..., because we could be much more restless because the young man also deserves it, but a later point of respect for sensillarism and respect for the thought we presented about volunteering. In the new contract program is already expected to be professional contracts. Therefore, respect this point that we agree, and what happens is that we also want to put in place that volunteer work will continue to be necessary, and therefore what we want to put in place is that we must legally make compatible this responsibility on the part of the Administration with professionals and professionals, and on the other hand also give impetus and also give the relevancy that this work is doing volunteering and that it is very and very necessary. And, finally, we had to incorporate the SEPE. And, therefore, I thank you for accepting the emena. Because it is an evidence that with a theme of these characteristics and with a point of these characteristics we have to incorporate the SEPE, because what is happening with the State Public Employment Service is dramatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament Montse Macià has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. This pandemic is putting us all and everyone to the test. Its impact increases even more inequalities. We are witnessing an acute growth of the poor and the deepening of the Bretxa that divides humanity between those who have access to protection and those who are unprotected. Certainly, it is devastating to the most vulnerable people. We see it every day, and all social entities repeat it to us, as they propose to the Reconstruction Commission. And this situation challenges us all, all the actors responsible for giving political responses to this crisis; the Government of Catalonia, yes, and also – also – the Spanish State. And I'm starting that way because, even though I don't like to go into creuades and "and you guys, it doesn't seem like it's just that every single one of us doesn't appreciate everything that we can do and don't do. We could add up and not stay. The proposed session, Congresswoman Ribas said: "We need survival policies. It's a evil virus that's killing us, and the first one, right now, is saving lives on the part of the government, on the part of all governments. Yes, indeed, on the part of all governments. And it is clear that many of the decisions, and even all the statements made and made by the Government of Catalonia, are, of course, better than those made by all governments. But the Government of Catalonia is doing it – it is doing it –: saving lives. Let's look at the dice. When mortality is analysed by historical regions or nationalities, the number of deaths per million inhabitants, the enviable situation or position is that of Catalonia, not that of Madrid or of Navarre, but that of Catalonia. Therefore, and with all the weaknesses of the system, which are and many, in Catalonia we are able to save lives. The virus is happening to vulnerable people, actually, we know that. Therefore, the best way to protect them is through good social policies. We agree. You too, Mrs Ribas, said: "In Catalonia protection policies are weak, weakened and for ineffective retailing. Spain does not have guaranteed minimum yields, neither does it have a sotre nor a meal. A governing state that calls itself "the most progressive government of history, and we said that some responsibility must be given to the parties that form it, right? In any case, we thank the parliamentary group proposing this motion, because it allows us to set ourselves before the prospect of the political response to the crisis of the Covid; better, of course, and much, but not so alone in Catalonia, too. And in this sense and in this pose before the lookout, we will give support to almost all the movement, because, for one band, many of the points are already being made, and for the other, or have accepted our ideas, which we appreciate, or have reached agreement by compromise, improving the original text and making a possible list, as for example – the Member who preceded me commented on it – at its 5th point. And we appreciate the effort to recover the decree of the consent of the Commission of the Government of the Guaranteed Income, or to include the SEPE with continued col·lapse, as the previous Member reminded us. We will not be able to vote in favour of the repeal of the Resolution of the Department of Territories, of the modification of the rules of the valuation table. We have little public housing, and this derogation we believe would be detrimental to other vulnerable families waiting for housing. We will abstain in the papers presented for Ciutadans. Because, look, the government of the generality does what it can with what it has, as far as resources and competitions are concerned. Of course, if you had more, as much of one thing as of the other, you'd do much more. In fact, if we were independent as we wanted, we wouldn't be able to ask for anything from the government of the state, either in the matter of denunciations, or foreign affairs, or in the matter of dependence or in the matter of nothing. Then the responsibility would be all of the Government of Catalonia. Actually, the tools we have aren't the right ones. And so, the government has broadened the premise of the program contract with local authorities, intensified policies of addressing sensillarism for the drama that it supposes. We can compromise with people who are not working in collaboration with the State and the local world, who must assume their skills and minimize what does not work, as the standard. And yes, they're right, they're calling structural changes. Maybe we can help each other get it, and so we wouldn't be able to ask anyone out of here to do politics. Among all of us, here we can decide what we want and how we want to do it, in order to achieve, effectively, social justice, equal opportunities, cohesion and progress, and a more solid and compassionate society that encourages us to imagine the life of others. For us this only has a path, which is the path of Catalonia's independence. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position, he has the word in the first place, for the PSC Group and Units to Advance, the deputy Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.44.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Well, the motion that presents us today Catalonia In Comú Podemos does not cease to be – and it was said before Congresswoman Ribas –..., fears that we defend from the past..., from this legislature, I would say that with you even since the year 2015, it was when I entered this Parliament; it is hopelessly repeated – desperately repeated. We always talk about the same issues, on social issues; we talk about many, themes – possibly they are the themes – but always with proposals that go in the same line. We've come a long way. Because it is true that approving and agreeing with each other is relatively easy – it is very difficult to be against social protection – but it is true that the government does not execute them. And we have this feeling of inefficiency, which is finally transferred to the city and which makes us, therefore, suffer a lot. I'd like to get into a few points of this young man. We will abstain in the first point, Mrs Ribas, in the contract program. Look, the program contract is already extended for the year you see. You can't make a program contract in one month, because you have to talk to the assemblies, because the assemblies have to sign, because there are hundreds of professionals behind each program contract, and you've been better, as we approved in this Parliament, before. Of course, what it takes is to do it before. We could have done it this year 2020, which was also extended. It didn't happen in 2020. We do it well – we do it well – we don't do it in one month, please. Fem-ho for the year 2021. But do it. Because it's a phone tool for gatherings, and more to deploy social policies. Agreed with the Covid fundraiser. Agreed to recover the guaranteed income decree and compatibility with the vital minimum income, if it is reform; otherwise, no. Clearly, because it was evil, that decree. All the political forces of this Parliament, except for the government, voted against it in August. People can't wait for access to one benefit while they wait for access to another. Now you can't – now you can't – do that. Because, indeed, the vital minimum ingredient has problems in getting out of the way for the demand and for the difficulties we have from the point of view of public service to be able to have all the resources needed in the pandemic era, but what we cannot do is that this is translated into a refusal to the citizen and citizens who need the guaranteed income of citizenship, that this can be given from Catalonia. With the theme of sensellarism, I... I understand it perfectly, it's a very repetitive theme, now it's called a sham. We have the sensellarism strategy, which, if I don't remember, since the year 2017 that hasn't unfolded; that it was consensual, that it's fine – that strategy is fine – ; please deploy it. Sensellarism is a very important problem for the city of Barcelona, the cities of Girona, Tarragona and Lleida, is to say, to the great cities, and to a lesser extent to the metropolitan area. In Santa Coloma de Gramenet, if I don't remember, we spent the year watching 17 people without being controlled by social services, assisted by social services, because they are a number of people who can be reached by social services. Where we need to put the accent is where we have thousands of people on the street. And, therefore, of what resources is available, is it not? We will give our vote in favour, as we have done other times. There are some points that are obvious. That is, to ensure that all young people who have passed through the protection system are followed to access something they already have right. I'm the one who thought this was already there. That's to say, when a young man who's exhausted ceases to be protected, he has a right to a benefit. It's that we changed it in the law here, and so I thought this was already there. If you call, then let's put it back down. And finally, this minute that I am left, I would like to give you some thought, Mrs Ribas, depending on what you expose to points 14 and 15, which we will abstain from. Mrs Ribas, with all the love, I want to remind you that you govern Spain. And, of course, it's very rare. I don't know if it's a costume of the commons, for example, that at the Barcelona Assembly, Barcelona in Comú makes a motion to the Ple that I urge her mayor to do something determined, or I don't know if this pinball policy species, right? That you urge the government to urge its government to do one thing. I ask you, if you please, to take over the phone, to talk to your Government of Spain to try to find solutions to those issues that they consider to be beneficial, and, therefore, to use the Government's channel, to use its influence in the Government of Spain, which therefore form part of, to hold the Vice-President – that is not turkey, with forgiveness – to try to bring to fruition those things that you require the Government of the Government, which require you to do for Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Vidal Aragonese of the Subgroup of the Constituent CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.46.0	President, to speak from the ESC, if you will, Members. Look, we will vote in favour of all the proposals that are made in this House. Let us think that they are pal·liative, and let us not give it from the point of view of negative criticism, but instead, of recognition, of what is most needed now to give an immediate answer. We think that it is very positive that it is in relation to the management of the guaranteed income of citizens, and also to strengthen the social services or, in any case, even to modify the months of emergence. For what it refers to sensellarism, it is a necessity for already, or the exercise of the right to registration. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of everything. That said, we want to have two different reflections. One: we are not putting structural measures from the table. And if it doesn't happen to them, it's going to happen to us that this crisis is going to come out like in the past, that the working classes will end up paying for the crisis. And we dare to say that if we do not think what these foundations really mean that come from the European Union we are not analysing that it will be practically our daughters, perhaps our grandchildren, who will end up paying for decades what is not the fruit of the work of the popular classes of the states of the European Union. This is not a gift from the institutions of the European Union. And one last question we want to move, with all due respect. It was strange this young man in relation to the later point, when a group, which is political force to the Government of the Spanish State, urged the Parliament because it urged the Government of the Spanish State to modify questions, for example, such as the processing of foreign affairs, competence that the commons do not hold the title to the Spanish Government, but if the socialist group. But, with all due respect, it has become absolutely surreal with the thought they have accepted, because you are asking for it now – a group that is part of and owns the title of the Ministry of Labour – to the Parliament of Catalonia that instigates its ministry because it ends with the bogery that has meant the processing of unemployment benefits. We felt it. It seems to us, after all, that it is almost tasteless. Three months in the Barcelona constituency, from mid-August to mid-November, without a worker being able to receive the benefit and those responsible are you, his minister. So, yes, we would ask them to approve motions and raise the phone and tell the minister that there is enough. The patience that the working classes of this country are having for a mismanagement, for which you are responsible, is unacceptable. And, therefore, he will forgive me for everything, but it seemed to us that it was necessary that it could be moved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the PP of Catalonia. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.48.0	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, that actually this young man touches many aspects in relation to social protection and globally we share many of the aspects that are expressed in the young man; some have already been approved on other occasions; others have some new points. And, obviously, the issue of strengthening social services at local level, the result of the pandemic situation, so it is a subject that we obviously share; as is also, for example, the issue of housing policies that are embedded in this movement or policies on sensellarism. Now, we will not support all points; there will be some that we will not support, such as the one who asks to recover the law decree to match the guaranteed income of citizenship and the vital minimum income, basically because here there is a task that governments have to do, which is to coordinate, agree and try to make this work forward. Therefore, we do not believe that it is necessary to appeal to the decree or to recover the decree that has already been rejected by this Parliament. Therefore, this is a task I believe to be of fundamental importance to the Government of Spain, which has the greatest responsibility in this respect. The second element – which we will not support either – is the repeal of the amendment of the Emergence Assessment Board Rules, because we believe that there must be the possibility of meeting other needs, rather than that of vulnerable families, and that is what actually led to the modification of this rule. And then we can't give support to trying to lobby together because your ruling members of the Socialist Party are doing things, between the government, which seems to be that they don't have to want to do, and that's why they ask the Catalan Parliament to ask the Spanish government that you do not know what. Listen to me, we're not going into this game. You have responsibility for the government, assume it. Assume, too, this responsibility and, therefore, in the framework of the government, what you will have to ask for. And I agree with the CUP spokesman that, man, he's not going to ask Parliament to ask the minister of his party to strengthen the Spanish occupation service, to strengthen the SEPE, because I think you have to know, that this is essential for the chaos that has been experienced especially in Catalonia throughout the pandemic, isn't it? And, finally, we can't subscribe to paper policies for everyone that you also express in this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers has the new word the deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.50.0	Well, as you already know, we've not accepted three of the support groups to the government and traded three more. I want to point out, by the way, that it's rectified, isn't it? I think it's important that it's complicated, especially. That it be necessary to make a new decree on the complementarity or compatibility between guaranteed income of citizenship and vital minimum income, correcting those elements that have caused its validation to fall in this Parliament. And it's important that he's pleased, counselor, and that he's taking us as soon as possible. And you're good at self-criticism. And it's good for the government, and it's good for us, too. And that we recognize, as the Catalan group, that Catalonia needs a reinforcement of the SEPE, and that we need a reinforcement of the foreign offices, and that we need a reinforcement of the staff of the Social Security offices as well. And, obviously, we raise the phone every day. But I think the Catalonian Parliament would be... Go, I think it would be a lot more inconsistent on our part than we recognized it. And, therefore, he's talking about social protection policies, he's putting in value those that have stood out from the Government of the State, also thanks to us, but knowing that they're not implementing themselves as well because there's not enough staff reinforcement... so the most honorable thing is to say, "From here too, we need personal. ........................................................................................................................................................................... I'm done. Just like during these months, right? These new months, we have focused on saving lives and we have understood that if we do not want a saturation of the health system and of the ICUs which is prevention, very and well done, we now have to hear that we have a lot of people in the social ICU and that what we need is to get it out of the ICU with a lot of prevention so that the social ICU is not satisfied. And that means guarantee of yields, all that is possible in protection policies and, above all, housing. And, therefore, it must be done from the Government of the State, but above all from the Government of the Generality, which is the one who has the most competence in these matters. Because in order to solve the empty snows of a government, at these times, people should not be drawn to the cua of the fame or collaborate in the Great Recapture. In order to solve the empty snows, at this moment, the government must guarantee rights. Already from this government in function and, obviously, the own government that comes, which must strengthen – and a lot – social rights and, therefore, social protection services...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.51.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.52.0	...to our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.53.0	Thank you. The debate is over, and I am making them come true, as in all the other points of voting, which will proceed to take all the votes together after the last question of this late. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the impact of the health crisis on the productive sectors]] [[302-00258/12]] Let us now turn to the new item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the impact of the health crisis on the productive sectors; presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose the young lady, has the parable of Congresswoman Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.54.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the vice president told me, a few minutes ago, that I couldn't attend on this motion because I had another important issue. And, therefore, he apologized and from here, so I thank him that he has passed it on to us. Well, we already know that we are in the middle of a pandemic, a crisis that is above all health care, but that it obviously has very important social and economic implications, that this whole situation is making administrations suffer, obviously, but above all families, the most vulnerable people, businesses, self-employed people, entrepreneurs. And, therefore, the situation is complex for everyone; some with more responsibility than others, because the administrations are the ones to make decisions, give sure, security and respond to the citizen, in their globality. But in any case, it is true that, although administrations are probably doing what they can, we are seeing Catalonia as a disaster in its management. And we've seen it with the residents, we've seen it with the help of the local people, now with the help of the culture, with the lack of dialogue with many economic sectors, that they complain that there is no flow and agreement and a concertation with the decisions that they make, and leaks, that neither please nor help. And probably in these moments the best news we have at the time is that there are elections on the 14th of February, and that this can bring a change to Catalonia, because we believe that the citizens deserve a new government. Well, we want to say them, by responsibility, some things, which is what our young lady says. The first is to stop speculating and improvising and to plan carefully the decisions they make, so that they are sure and that they are agreed, if possible, with the sectors to which these decisions most affect. You have to maintain and strengthen a continuous dialogue with the economic sectors, which is often complained about. We have seen a wide-ranging act of Pimec and of all its federations, of different sectors, asking for more support and more help and also more dialogue with the Administration, I say. So, in this sense, we say: "In agreement with the health measures, but economic compensation that must go ahead with a dialogue and agreement with the affected sectors. They're not devoting enough resources, though they come here and say "whatever they can." Well, then, we don't think they're enough. I will give the example of two small sectors: EUR 8,5 million in night oci, which are closed by March and which have only opened for a few weeks in the summer; EUR 8,5 million, which are absolutely insufficient. And the entities of the lleure, which has opened a call of 20_million, also insufficient, when the majority of the entities has reduced the billing by 80_per_cent. So just these two examples. The Government of Spain has transferred funds of €16,000_million to the autonomous communities. In Catalonia, now with the transfer of this November, about 3,000_million, these 225 remain by December. It has been so, among other things, that the communities have asked to be able to manage the funds, to be able to manage resources directly, and these funds have been transferred precisely because the communities can manage this pandemic. We would also like to know where these resources are, what we have dedicated them to, as justified, where they have been justified, because there really is no transparency in the management of these foundations. And we've asked many times, and we don't get out. We would like the detail, the concrete detail, a serious justification of these resources, which are many, three thousand, are many. And, therefore, we would like to have a detail, beyond the big figures, a little transparency. We say that a lot of resources have been transferred; surely they are always insufficient, but they have been transferred a lot and we would therefore like them to be seen. Then we say the other day there was a surplus. And it's true, there's a surplus, at these times, September 30th – it's still October – about 1,000_million euros. You say, "Oh, we'll spend them already. Home, I'd just miss it, obviously, I hope you spend it. We'd like to know what they're spending them on and how they're spending them. Because now they say, "Don't pateixin – don't pateixin, don't pateixin – we'll make a 0.6_per_cent deficit. No, if 0.6 has already done the past year, of deficiency, without pandemic. And at these times, where the European Union has suspended fiscal rules and where the State allows us to spend more because it will already cover the debt, we say: "Why can't we spend a few more tens of more GDP in deficit? It seems to you, sometimes..., it seems... I told the vice president: "You look like a PP advisor: auster, he doesn't want to spend, it doesn't happen that it's more of an account. No, if the State already allows it to spend, if the rules are suspicious. Spend two tenths more, which is 500_million that you could inject into the economic sectors. So that's what we give them in this young man—that's what we give them—that they spend a little more, they make more effort. If the needy are covered, we wouldn't tell them, but at these times, as you very well say many times, that is to spend, that is to be indebted; that is to be done by the State, that is to be done by other countries. So do it from here, too, that, in the end and in the end, they are laying down the deficit as alone as that of the year 2009, when there was no pandemic then. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.56.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, Members of Parliament. For the second time, in less than six months, bars, restaurants, beauty centres, sports centres, the leisure sector, the cultural sector, have again suffered, or continue to suffer, in their activities cuts and closures decreed by the Government. For the second time, it is the same people who are suffering the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19. It is no wonder, therefore, that already, considering that they have been crushed over and over again, they have no choice but to close, in many cases, and in others to bear losses that really put their future at risk as a business or as an activity. In view of this situation, what is the Government doing? Let me say that your measures can be described in two ways: at least, as insufficient, and even, believe me, inappropriate. This motion we are seeing today is trying to correct some of them and will therefore have our support for most of their proposals. Having said that, I would like to highlight some aspects of the management of the Government of the Generalitat that it is doing, in our view, quite poorly. First, the Government is wrong in its efforts to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. And this error is particularly serious because of the deaths it is causing, but also because of the damage it is causing to the productive sectors. It is possible, as demonstrated in other autonomous communities, to combat the pandemic with more selective measures both geographically and sectorally. It is possible and necessary for measures to be taken by neighbourhoods or towns, even taking into account a certain timetable, but in any case what cannot be done is to condemn, to an entire sector or to several, inactivity throughout Catalonia and without any restriction in the local or geographical sense. And the Government cannot avoid the responsibility of these decisions by relying on the views of some experts, for there are opinions, as you know, quite different among the experts. Success in these decisions and measures, or acting quickly and agilely to modify them, is vital for the present and future viability of self-employed and small businesses. Without being able to open the business and regain its activity, any aid will be insufficient and above all will be fruitless. Secondly, I would like to point out that the Government of the Generalitat is taking measures of a fat brush, but it is applying aid and compensation with a brush. In this respect, the Government decrees the closure of bars, restaurants and centres, but in no way accompanies these measures with minimally fair compensatory aid; I insist: minimally fair. How can a sector such as hospitality be compensated for losses of around 800_million, with aid of 90? That's just like treating a hemorrhage with tirites – that's just it. This at best, because at worst there are sectors with which no aid has yet been approved. Some sectors, on the other hand, complain that the government does not have them at all and that they have been forced to make a huge investment in many cases in security measures in order to finally have to be closed – to have to be closed. I mean, I force them to invest in security and then I force them to close. Well, obviously that's not going anywhere. Finally, we want to highlight, we want to state our regret that our amendment calling for the Catalan Parliament to condemn the vote against Mr Carles Puigdemont, former President of the Generalitat, Mr Antoni Comín and Mrs Clara Ponsatí, former members of the Government of the Generalitat, in the European Parliament, on the agreement of the European Union with China, precisely an agreement intended to protect the designation of origin of the Catalan quarry in the Chinese market. It's amazing – and that's where the connection is, if they didn't see it – that, with the economic difficulties we are going through, MEPs representing Catalans and their interests vote against supporting the Catalan quarry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.58.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man has one of the concerns that in the debate yesterday of one of the decrees, concretely in the decree of fiscal measures presented yesterday by the vice president, we also transferred it, which is our misunderstanding – that I believe is also the misunderstanding of many economic sectors: from culture, sport, taxi, restoration – about which is the economic orientation of the government of the Generality's economic policy, isn't it? First of all, we also said yesterday, that is to say, he chose to make a policy based on a multiplicity of decrees that we believe do not have a relationship between them, that there is no clear strategy, that there is no economic plan at the back, but that they have much to see with their electoral battle, with their promotion of the different departments, that they have neither tone nor are. And, in short, they also take economic measures that are very short due to the real possibilities that the Generalitat has today. And this one I think is the phone book, right? So, I think it's obvious – and we've discussed it many times – that Catalonia needs a better funding system, but it's also true that today Catalonia has the resources to deal with the health crisis and the economic crisis, or at least much more resources than you want to believe, or at least much more resources than you're mobilizing. And what I don't understand – and it's a phone element – is, or is, this obsession with keeping the deficit level at the same level, for example, as we did in 2019. That is to say, how can the decision of the Department of Economics be that 2020 makes a deficit around 0.6_per_cent, when for example 2019, without the economic crisis or also the health crisis, did we do the same level of deficit? And how this can be when, for example, the deficit targets are no longer needed. I mean, there's no deficit targets, they're recommendations. And there is also the State's commitment to finance – because Catalonia cannot finance through markets – all the deficit that has been generated. He told us yesterday the Republican Left Carrier that this did not end in September, but the measures you are taking now know that this is not..., or so they know that there is no such restriction at the moment. That is to say, why in accounts of 20_million euros for the autonomous, which has a very important impact, for example, also in the world of restoration, is not 100_million? Why don't we go to measures that wander beyond the announcements? We also had, for example, the..., suspended the inn in order to help the world of culture. But we were talking about €3.5 million. So, I think it's time to spend, and spend at levels not of symbolic measures that allow us to tell the sector that we've done something, but drawings and hundreds of millions of euros. I want to remember one thing that I think everyone knows: every tenth of a deficit is 210_million euros. But it's that, besides, it's not just a deficit or a spending rule – and he also said yesterday – that they are certainly insufficient; but, unlike the crisis of 2011, there was a Covid fund of €3,200_million, not conditioned – not conditioned – and a lost fund, as it couldn't be in any other way. That is to say, the same as we are claiming from the European Union we are also claiming from the Government of the State. But of course, that's to say, with the issue of disability you don't do the same. Because they say to the State, "spent, spent, spent, which is what the State is doing, and therefore I believe that at the level of the Spanish State we are going to a deficit of over 10_per_cent, surely, but you want to control the deficit in Catalonia. You don't feel it. That is to say, today Catalonia has the capacity to finance itself through the State because the State has the capacity to finance itself through the policies being made by the European Central Bank, which is basically buying from the states. So, then, it's incomprehensible. There is a new Covid fund, for example, also for 2021: 13,400_million euros in assumptions, if they are approved – I hope they will not do the same as they did in 2019– and, therefore... Well, no, no. 2019 brought the assumptions down with a goal to the totality of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, which, among other things, for example, there were things that you claim and that we also claim. For example, I return from the third additional arrangement, also from the Deut de Mossos d'Esquadra. If that's real, if that's true. But is there more resources now than there was, for example, at the time of the PP? I'm saying, for example, investment issues. I'm not the one who says it's an ‘unpublished investment in Catalonia'. Gabriel Rufián said, huh? So, I say, in any case... I only carry the money, which is probably never enough, but most of all they have to want to spend it and most of all they have to be able to spend it and they have to know how to spend it. If they stop stalling, maybe we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.60.0	Thank you, President. Where to start? Because actually in this window today we've heard a bunch of concepts, and above all economics. I think you did yesterday, don't you? , both from the group of commons or Can – I would not know how to differentiate sometimes where the limit is – or PSC or PSOE, we are barging according to five concepts. And there's a basic mistake that leads to confusion. We want to think that his intention is not to lie or confuse. We'd like to think that in these critical moments we don't play into these concepts. We're talking or you're talking about this 891-million surplus, which everyone knows right now isn't there. Its purpose is to calculate the government's balance as of September 2020, in the sum of operations financed and not financed, sweeping these two concepts at the time of calculating the balance of public accounts. And you know it's wrong. And if not, I asked the State General Intervention. This balance is conjunctural – we know – and generalized to all autonomous commissions for the arrival of Covid funds between July and September. That's like saying when we're on the payroll at the end of the month, and if more than that month has had the extra pay..., it's taking the balance that day, but without thinking that from here you'll have to pay the loggers, the administrative expenses and everything you've planned to do your own. So, you know that, and more so, because we talk mainly here with the economic spokespersons. So we don't cheat on the lonely. Deficit... So much! Talk to us, too. We know that the European Union approved it, approved it on March or April. What happens to the government that you co-chair? That he didn't get approved until this last month. Six months later. What do we do next? How do you act, with what you know you may not have, on those limitations you know you won't approve? From here, from this 0,2 approved by 2020, the Generality will eventually execute a 0,7. I think she'll remember, too, because I think she'll be scrupulous with her explanations, that she was getting a 1_per_cent, and here her doorman flagged her: "The government has approved a deficit of 1_per_cent. Ah! But they neglected to say that this deficit was by 2021. Do you know what a difference there is? That if it had been applied now Catalonia would have had 2,000_million more euros. He's talking about a forty - or - a - hundred help to us. Go ahead, make it a hundred. With these 2,000_million euros that you have regathered for us, probably this help could already be. And as you also know, the presuppostary exercises are tanked in disembarkation and are tanked looking at all the execution parties and all the planned parties, so that from the Spanish government they have so obvious or fan so often, to the propaganda. And today it comes out that probably the Spanish State is the state that will have the figures of shame, that will not spend nor the half of the aid that it will receive, 14,000_million euros – 14,000_million. We're not talking about the hemlocks, we're not talking about what the Government of Catalonia can manage, which makes it all possible and tries to unlock the euros from there where we can get to direct measures, more uncertain or not so uncertain, and probably the IT system failed and we said we'd rethink it. But, ladies and gentlemen, how many direct measures have reached the small autonomous state? What have the last few months done? They've pushed their share of autonomes where you can, because you pick up, you have the money, you have the information to do auto aids, to press a button and say that all these people are backward. Why don't they? Why do they just come here to give us ideas about this? Another example: mascaretes. Yesterday it is ugly public that the VAT of masks became reduced, 4_per_cent. Attention, too, huh? Surgical masks. If we look at this hemisphere, there are very few surgical masks, because they protect more. Do you know from March to November how much money the State has collected for this tax, a tax that we all pay? Because this is an essential good and we all need to protect ourselves, and so far it was 21_per_cent. And yes, we also have to feel as we ask in the apartment that we internationalize the 061, the commons – the commons –, that until recently the Government of Mrs. Colau has awarded the SAD to DomusVi and various awards also to Florentine companies. What's wrong, what's only here where these public policies are required? Do we all make the banner of feminist policies that say 'co-government'? We cover all the spaces we need because we need them. We need a government of the Generality with municipal governments and with governments of the State because this is a pandemic, people suffer and demand this from us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.61.0	Congresswoman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.62.0	...collaborative policies, not another type of policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.63.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, she has the word Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.64.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Before entering concretely into the inquiry and the motion presented by the Socialist Party, with the deputy Romero in the lead, I wanted to answer to the deputy of Citizens, because I refer to the vote in the European Parliament, first of all, which I like to be in your position in favour of the Catalan cave. We have always positioned ourselves and the names of origin of Catalonia. But when you refer to the vote in the European Parliament, it turns out that we defend trade agreements whenever we do not violate fundamental rights. And in this case, we, therefore... Xina is repressed because she has been exiled, she has undertaken, there are dissidents, and, therefore, Juntes for Catalonia in the European Parliament acted in coherence, that we want a democratic Europe where trade agreements are possible, but there is no violation of rights and freedoms. Therefore, Member of Parliament for Citizens, I defend here also Catalan products and designations of origin and understand better what the position of Junts for Catalonia was in the European Parliament. In relation to the young man, so, well, Member Romero, more than the last intervention, that I think we should look to be focused and adapt to the moment he sees the country, that it is not easy, you ask not to speculate, and I think that the government, with all the difficulties, the self-criticism that is possible, I think it does not speculate, huh? , but it works on the basis of epidemiological data and on the basis of these, so plan and execute the descalation. So, at this point of view, I don't think it's right to talk about speculating. As you refer to the dialect – I think that yesterday some of us, some of us, were in the lobby –, we are open to listening and improving and getting to the government, as the group that supports it, so the conditions that ask us for different sectors, because I think it is a representative function that we have. And, therefore, from here I feel proud if these months we have been able to help listen to the different sectors of society, because it is our responsibility. And so did the Department of Culture and the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge. And when we talk about planting the aids, so surely the error is planting. We can set up two-thousand computer servers, but if there's anything we've seen fail, then maybe there's not so much a computer error here. And, Mrs Romero, you – and I have a week and a half asking for data – are referring to this surplus of EUR 891 million, but I have been a student. And you... these data aren't real, because they make up for the financial expenses. And when you make reference to the covid fund of €3,225_million, it is true that the State has to make this contribution, but it is not true that it has done it all; it has not done a part, it has not done 2,200_million euros and the Government of the Generality... missing a part, eh? – missing a part. And, therefore, the Government of the Generality is losing and approving the aid. Nor can we vote in favour of it – and we have come to some conclusions – in the sense that you claim, that the Government of the Generality has not given all aid to all sectors. I agree that we have enjoyed being able to help the sectors more. Here there is no margin of doubt on the part of our positioning. But we deny it to the Major, who has not acted and has not helped, and is trying to approve many more. And what's true is that we accept the self-criticism, but you will also accept it, because the Madrid government with the payment of ERTOS, with the SEPE's functioning, with all the lack of measures..., explained it before Deputy Munell. Surely what we agree with is that the citizens of Catalonia are asking for measures and state aid, asking for direct help, asking for measures for real and effective self-government. And then, when you talk to him, they know perfectly well that the Spanish government has the skills. And, therefore, listen to state measures, measures that the Spanish Government must approve because it is not possible here. And also, in the framework of this position, so we will vote for what we share, but they cannot ask the Government of the Generality to exercise those powers, for example in matters of self-government, which we do not have. Because what we are seeing in Catalonia, Member of Parliament Romero, is that the autonomous system is exhausted; the current model is exhausted. The citizens of Catalonia ask for state aid and this autonomous system does not give them an answer. That's why we've been defending independence for Catalonia ever since, and we want an independent Catalonia in the framework of this Europe of rights and freedoms, an independent Catalonia that can live and survive autonomous and autonomous people, because Catalonia has the capacity to respond to their demands. You can and won't and we'll fight so we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.66.0	Thank you very much, President. To intervene from the escó. There has been a very interesting discussion, where Mr. Cid quoted us Rufian and Mr. Caula seemed to imply a certain Rufianism of Mr. Cid, with the term that he establishes in Spanish language as to honor, is not wrong. Therefore, this Member does not control the Catalan language, but the Spanish language and we would not want to be wrong. Look, we're going to vote for all the points and agreements that this young lady makes, but we think they're going to take two very deep thoughts. The first, on how the measures apply. And we in the government have moved him one and a thousand times: everything that can be used to reduce the Covid's crow, we are in favour. That's right, I don't count on us if, suddenly, bars, restaurants or culture leave them out of business and don't make up for them economically, because they fuck them up. So clear. And worse sectors, as always. According to a reflection that for us it is more necessary: they act on those sectors that are really..., we spread the Covid in an expansive way: teaching, work centers and residences of great people. And there wasn't the intensive action that required the moment, but there were actions. And the last question of funds, so much more important. Look, it's gonna sound weird to you, but we're not here to manage the system's wreaths. We're coming to make wreaths of this system. If there are no deep structural reforms, this crisis will continue to be paid by the popular classes with their sweat, with their work and with their patience for lack of social conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia and the deputy Manuel Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.68.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a pandemic that has caused a health crisis, and that health crisis has also resulted in an economic crisis and a social crisis that is particularly rife in this second wave. Health measures had to be taken by the Government to alleviate the pandemic. But these health measures have been accompanied by a forced stoppage of the productive sectors; a forced stoppage, unconsensused, not spoken to either the self-employed, nor the enterprises, nor the economic and social actors. It seems that the Government of the Government of Catalonia wants to criminalize certain productive sectors. It punishes them after the investments and efforts they have made. Sectors such as catering, bars, restaurants... ; sectors such as tourism, sectors such as night entertainment; sectors such as beauty centers, aesthetic centers; diverse sectors; autonomous sectors and sports entities – gyms, clubs... Sport is health, and sport is now closed. Sport is closed, after the efforts they have made, to investments. They also have it taken with the out-of-school activities centers, with the trade fairs. They force them to close, but they do not, however, take the accompanying measures to save the companies, so that these companies do not send to unemployment, so that they do not send the ERTEs to their workers. Because if they send them to unemployment, if they send them to ERT, what are these families going to live on? What are you going to live on? We, from the People's Party, ask the Government..., very simple: a rescue plan, a plan to help companies to continue to operate; a plan to help create jobs, essential to recover jobs, to recover dynamism; and, finally, a tax plan to help, to provide tax incentives to families, to companies to entrepreneurs. But, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, not all the blame lies with the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. What has the Government of Spain done, or what is the Government of Spain doing? The Government of Spain wants to increase VAT on sugary drinks. The Spanish Government has taken advantage of all the Spaniards with the VAT on masks, saying that we could not because the European Union was not leaving, and now limiting only one type of masks to that reduction. They also want to increase taxes on diesel, income tax, property tax, limit corporation tax... In short, you are the government of waste, unemployment and the government of the ruin of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers, the Member of Parliament, Romero, has a turn now. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.70.0	Thank you, President. I'll be gone very quickly, because I only have two minutes. I don't want to go into debates about what you say or don't say the state of execution of the Generality's premise, but you go to the web and there's a stupendous square that you say: "Financing and not financing, end of September 30, 891. Survive, 1049, if it's the whole public sector. It's here. In September 2019, if we compare it – which I did, because I was asked by Vice President Aragonès –..., on September of last year we were in deficit. What's wrong with that? On an income, a brutal transfer from the State into Covid funds because the Generality dedicates them to what it touches. We only said: "If they have not been spent, let them explain to us why. And the problem is that the government doesn't explain, it doesn't report. That's the big problem the government has, which doesn't explain things; they haven't explained to the journalists that they were asking them, nor have they explained it to the government groups. Miri, the other day there was a press release that I liked very much – the Tuesday – of the government, which was talking about an increase in creed that there was in front of the Covid fund that came from the state. In these moments 2,799_million euros, between Covid funds and the flexibility of 0.2. But it's that you say the press note – which is very good to read things –, you say: « 0.2 is a reference fee. It's not a fixed and locked deficit target, it's a reference rate, which means we can pass it on. You say, "Six, six, and we say, why don't we do one, which the state will allow and finance the debt, as Europe says? They could do it! And listen to me, two tenths. I repeat: 500_million euros direct to the economic sectors – bars, restaurants, aesthetics, firaries, walkers, night oci premises, taxis... Miri, 500_millions, that's it. Two-tenths, two-tenths that the State will finance. I really don't understand why they don't! It's that you ask the companies you're in debt via ICF, and then you don't! And, of course, the ICO has already extended the loan and has already made two years of care. The ICF still has to do, that Vice President Aragones is very fast demanding and very slow performing. So let's see if, taking into account that we have the skills and resources, we do the favor of compensating the economic sectors, which you are closing in on the health measures they take. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finish the debate, let's go to the... yeah, tell me, Mr. Spiny, why ask me the word? [[Antonio Espinosa Cerrato intervenes without using the microphone.]] Thirty seconds. But I should turn on the microphone, otherwise we won't hear it. [[Pause.]] Contradiction, anyway, whose?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.72.0	In relation to Congresswoman Geis' statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.73.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.74.0	Well, just tell him that the government of Catalonia, through Action, is trying to penetrate the Chinese market in a brutal way, is to say that enterprises and products penetrate the Chinese market. It is therefore paradoxical that at this time the President of the Generality has voted against, precisely, this policy of penetration and promotion of Catalan products to the Xina, and this has not pleased us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.75.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into coordination with the local world during the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[302-00259/12]] All right. We said that, after the debate, we would move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government about coordination with the local world during the Covid-19 pandemic; presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Marta Moreta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.76.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, mirin, ahead of a health, social and economic pandemic of large dimensions, today I would like to start my intervention having a record to the figure of the socialist minister of Sanitat Ernest Lluch, murdered today– a couple of days ago– for the terrorist band ETA. Lluch made public sanitation universal and highlighted above all for his dialogue, which allowed him to reach great agreements and great pacts. I'm starting with this to say that this young man has been negotiated, agreed and dialogued with everyone who has had an interest in agreeing. I am still surprised when some representatives of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra say that the problem of municipalism is of the Government of Spain, because, according to them, lacks financing from the State. Look, I'll prove to them that what they're explaining is not true. The proposal of the State's own general assumptions clearly sets out the reinforcement of municipalism, so that they will provide the local world with more than 19,000_million direct euros. These resources will enable us to cope with the difficult crisis of the Covid and to carry out other investments; for example, in the areas of housing, infrastructure, rail transport. It's unheard of that Mrs. Madrenas came out last week at this cliff and she's still able to say that we need more resources, more funding, and that the Government of Spain has a low commitment to locals. And it will be precisely yours, Mrs Madrenas, that will be yours to vote against the proposal of the state's own general assumptions, which foresee, no more or less, to the province of Girona, a reversal that goes from EUR 110_million to EUR 172_million, a bid, no more or less, of 56,4_per_cent. And you won't give him the favorable vote; it's really unusual. That's why I was talking, at the heart of my intervention, about the need and the ability to reach agreements. But you've already shown that this enabler doesn't have it. These general assumptions of the State are good and need them Spanish, but they also need Catalonia. And remember that the suspension of the fiscal rules is already approved, which will allow the use of the Romans of the previous accumulated exercises and, more importantly, without failing to comply with the rule of expense and presuppositional stability. And I will repeat myself, because my company has already said so, but we are still clear: by the end of the year – from now on, one and a half months and a half – Catalonia will have received about EUR 3,225 million – at these times, EUR 2,700 million – and this without taking into account this Romanesque who has, this surplus, forgiveness, of EUR 900 million that are not being spent. Look, I'll stop telling the state government that it's got a fever compromised with the gatherings, stop saying it because it's not true. Because what it is necessary for the Government of Catalonia to devote these resources to families, businesses, self-government and, obviously, joint ventures. Stop looking for culprits outside. Your management has a lot to wish for. Councilwoman Budó explained that they had already recovered the Feder fund match, that they had been destined for Covid's themes, and we claim to the Government of the Generalitat that if they have already recovered them that the return, these Feder funds, to the joints. How much longer will the gatherings and search centers have to wait? How long do they have to wait? There is a lack of increased cooperation, approval of the social and economic reconstruction plan, provision of the resources needed to continue bringing education services from zero to three years of assembly. And will they actually complete the agreement that they reached with municipal authorities and revert to local administrations 85_percent of the recapitulation of penalties applied to local police? And speaking of this subject, I would like to make it clear: it seems that this agreement had been reached with Councillor Buch and the municipalist entities, and when they changed counsel..., that is, Mr. Sámper decides that this agreement is not valid. But what's going on here? The government is the same, the agreement doesn't change, and now it turns out that a person wants to pull a consensus agreement back? Do me a favor. There are announcements, promises, and we need them to execute what they say. They remain clear, transparent and, above all, stop stalling at once.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, to defend the papers, has the word Mr Manuel Reyes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.78.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long time since the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia ruled citizens' backs – a long time ago. You are more in your internal battles, in your power disputes, in leaking information, in being influenced from outside the government – which seems to have a lot of ancestry on some councillors outside the government. In those battles are you. If you don't need Catalan NASA! If you are already on Mars! You don't need Catalan NASA, you already live on another planet, outside the needs of Catalans. Moreover, its priorities cannot be other than to promote separatism, division and confrontation between Catalans. For that you have money, for that you have priorities and time. Not for other things. Municipalism is of no interest to you at all. Except for one thing – for one thing they are interested in –: to set up chiringuitos. To set up chiringuitos as the local councils of the fantasy republic of Mr Puigdemont. That's what they're interested in. Or to build associations like the AMI. Associations in favour of independence. And why do you want to ride those little chiringuitos? Very easy, to make cash. To pay the fee. For your local fees to pay the fee or for the municipalities to pay the fee. For that they are interested in municipalism – for that. But for other things you have never cared about the municipalities, the municipalities and the local interests that our towns and cities have in Catalonia. But on the part of the Socialist Party..., it does not have much interest in municipalism, in all the municipalities, in the more than eight_ thousand municipalities that exist in the whole country, in the whole of Spain. It is also not a priority for the government of Pedro Sánchez – nor is it a priority. You guys are kidding us. We used to talk, for example, about the VAT on masks, how they want to raise income tax, company tax, property tax. To tighten the fiscal pressure on citizens, that is why the Spanish Government is working very well. And the Government of Spain, moreover, has taken charge of municipalism, when there was a consensus to speak, to build among all, among all political formations, to equip a fund of reconstruction of 5,000_million_de_euro. For that, the Government of Spain is not interested in the municipalities. Or the rescue fund. The 1,725_million we had agreed on all the political forces, all the municipal forces to cover that deficit we have in public transport throughout the country. For that reason, the Sánchez government is also not interested in the municipalities. Or the reconstruction funds that come from Europe, those 140,000_million_of_euro; 140,000_million_of_euro and that for Sánchez the municipalities are not important. Do you intend to take our hair, and only 1_per_cent, 1_per_cent of those funds, of those 140,000_million, want to allocate it to the municipalities? The Socialist Party has little concern. Moreover, the Minister of Finance wanted to rob the municipalities 15,000_million of their savings. 15,000_million of all, of all the neighbors, of all the citizens. And thanks to all political formations, except the Socialist Party, we have agreed to avoid that troupe, socialist gentlemen, of stealing 15,000_million_euros in exchange for returning 5,000_millions to the municipalities. Hair takeout. And now, in those budgets that you want to show, those budgets continue to ignore those endowments that we have been asking for. Of the 5,000_million of the reconstruction fund, you only propose 3,000; of the 1,725_million for the transport deficit, you just want to contribute 400. Is that how you take the municipalism of all Spaniards seriously? We believe that there are other alternatives, which must be provided with those funds that we have demanded from all political parties. Of those 140,000_million_of_euros, what less than 14_per_cent goes to the municipalities. Because 14_per_cent is municipal public spending. It's what belongs to the city halls. It is enough to withdraw resources to who is the nearest administration, socialist gentlemen. It is very good that they tighten the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, but look also at the shames, their shames. Get the money to the city halls. And, for example – and to conclude – the issue of minimum living income, which is being a disaster. 60_per_cent of requests are being rejected. Let the municipalities manage them. Put money, put resources in the municipalities, which are well aware of the needs of citizens, so that we can help those vulnerable people who need that resource. Do that favor to the municipalities, because it is doing a favor to all Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards. It is good that you press the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, but you from Madrid also worry about all the municipalities, for those of Catalonia and for those of the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.79.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Munia Fernández-Jordan has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.80.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Members, Members, people who are with us today in Parliament. Whenever we discuss the local world in this forum, many of us or the same all end up saying that the municipalities are the closest administration to the individual, to the people. This is a reality that has never materialized as much as in this pandemic era. For the municipalities, and since March 2020, there has been an avalanche of petitions, an avalanche of questions from people living in cities and towns. A tsunami in its management and a test of fatigue of its material and human means. That was it. Since this March 2020, there are questions of all kinds: women who suffer violence call the city council, elders who asked how they had to manage their medicines, even elders who called asking how they could do to get the garbage out. New services that have had to be created from scratch, such as food service, within many municipalities, or material, provide PPEs, masks. And I say this from my knowledge as councillor of Sant Cugat del Vallès. Added: we were able to agree – it is of how little good the pandemic has brought – in answers that on many occasions exceeded the competence of the municipalities. And here's the question: that this is Catalonia. And above the city halls, what do we have? The generality. He doesn't do what he has to do, he doesn't manage and he owes a lot of money, he owes a fortune. Always with your deficit mantra. But the biggest deficit here is that of the municipalities with the Generalitat. They owe hundreds of millions of euros. They're hurting the city halls. Look, in April 2020, the Generalitat announced that it would advance the payment of 61_million_euros that it owed. And, according to our data, this amounted to an average of 3.99 euros per inhabitant in the sixty-six cities of more than twenty thousand people in the autonomous community. Sabadell earned 1.69 euros per inhabitant. Most populated cities like Terrassa, 1.67; Hospitalet, 1.37 euros per inhabitant. It sounds like the autonomous raffle of 2,000 euros for 10,000 autonomous of the 550,000 that there are; to see who comes before, right? It sounds like that, because that's his way of ruling. You will be able to move this motion forward with promises of rain of euros, but you never pay what you have to pay. So, actually, what we're doing here is an act of faith. Look, in April, the Department of Economics was charging the debt at 140_million_of_euro, and we, from Citizens, are presenting almost the same proposals: liquidating the amount due to the municipalities, enabling funding lines, releasing resources, extra aid, investing in vulnerable areas – an issue that we thought was essential – we even proposed to create the territorial vulnerability index. There is room for this, but what is not there is political will. Now we're immersed in the second wave, but what we have is the perfect storm. Sánchez e Iglesias in the government of the nation, and nationalism here in Catalonia, the one that dedicates 240_million_de_euros to TV3, budgets like the one that can be the budget of Badalona or a provincial capital like Lleida. Or almost 600_million_de_euros to CTTI, but in the end it is the municipalities that have to supply a tablet through an NGO to children who do not have it to go to class online. But it is also that the current economy is drowned by its management of the pandemic, let us be clear. Wealth is open business, and here are thousands of closed businesses. The hotel industry is going down, and you don't administer surgical measures by sector according to the real risk. They manage the pandemic as in the Middle Ages. A lot of CTTI and space racing, but we go back to the Middle Ages. They need to put the wooden boards and the handkerchief out of business. Raising this we are living requires courage and effectiveness on all fronts – on all – but this government prefers to spend 20_million_of_euro on institutional advertising, and in Europe denouncing the Catalan quarry. So we can't go on. It is clear that in order to begin to emerge from this tremendous crisis the first, most important, one of the most important things we have to do shortly is that this Government leaves the Palau de la Generalitat. That's urgent. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Marc Sanglas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.82.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Moreta, she missed me; she missed me with her intervention a lot, because, in any case, she didn't make a single point of reference about the young man, and that cost us a lot of negotiation and many hours. And in any case, I would like to thank him for his predisposition and that of the rest of the Members who have had to use it, because with this young man who has touched so many themes, let us say, we have devoted efforts, but in any case they have been worth it. But you have made a propaganda speech here – it is noted that you are in pre-electoral period – about the assumptions of the State, these wonderful assumptions of the State that, in any case, I just want to remind you that, let's say, of the assumptions above, the average execution of the State's investments in Catalonia is of a 13_per_cent. That's why you don't vaggle promising a rain of millions that don't work out afterwards. In any case, we'd like it if, sometimes, less than millions, but the execution of investments was safe, right? And he pointed to the 3,000_millions of euros issue, which is very important for them to come and so much good to come, but I don't want to be reminded, even though after you tell us that this is a mantra, the 16,000_millions of euros of deficit found academically. It is not that data, let's say, of the independenceists, are academic data in which it is said that there are these 16,000_million euros of deficit. And so let's just say, it's hard... or, in any case, these 3,000_million euros that you bring in little of this difference. The Government of the Generality, since the beginning of the crisis, has been well placed at the expense of the local world. I think this is the first point that we need to take into account, and we also wanted to manifest it in this young man. A clear compromise with the local world, not only from the economic point of view. And I want to put in value the 120_million euros that were announced by a few days of providing an extraordinary source of local cooperation, which will allow us..., an indiscriminate source, let us say, without need to justify, in order to deal with these external expenses that have been incurred by the local administrations in order to deal with the pandemic. Therefore, they are resources that with a migrated situation of Catalan finances we believe is an important effort. Not only that, we also believe that in other areas there have also been various contributions. We have made contributions in the field..., let's say, of the most social field, we have an input of 11_million for programs of better employment and local development, we have 40_million euros for the financing of locals, 9_million for the care of people without learning, 5_million for the help of the social emergency, 3.7 for the hiring of civic dynamotizers for the social inclusion of young people, 22_million for the home care service, and we can continue with others..., a set of help that has arrived at the meetings. Therefore, the will is there. And of the twenty-three points with which this young man has remained, we will give support to everyone, but there are some that we cannot give support to. You ask us for two extraordinary contributions. A grant of 200_million euros. We, uh... it's 120. It's more modest, but we can still get here. And another $500-million reconstruction fund. I, Mrs. Moreta..., would like to remind you there: you are the governor of government, with a good mayor – basically because you are republican. In any case, you know what it means to manage, you know that public administrations have migrated resources. When a contribution of so much money is required, somewhere or something else we need to retail. How about you, Mrs. Moreta? What kind of presupposition do you think you're going to retaliate? Because, in any case, if the Government of the Generality, which has certain assumptions, has to provide more resources, it means we have to retail some band. It is true that more resources can come from Europe. And, in this sense, what we are asking is that they support the papers that the Republican Left Parliamentary Group will present to the assumptions of the State. Four thousand million euros from an extraordinary fund. You promised us a 5,000-million-euro fund that has disappeared, we don't know where it is anymore. There's a lot to talk about, this 5,000-million-euro fund that's disappeared. An extraordinary fund of €4,000_million for joint ventures. A fund for public transport of EUR 1 million for extraordinary expenses. And then, that's how you treat the joints like the correspondents. We want and we will support and give support to the gatherings – you also ask for it in this young man. And we will give our full support to the fact that local administrations directly, possibly rebre, account for 15 % of the contributions of the European funds, which correspond to their own as the public administration. We treat the joints as you say it's done. So now they have the opportunity. We'll present these items to the assumptions of the State, since you haven't made any of us. We will not support the issue of liquidation. Yes, we're happy that the generality is liquid, obviously we want it to be liquid, and it's liquidating. And this is where we have to put the effort. You, in your young lady, say that the generality is very slow with the gatherings. There's a degree of morosity, but it's better than there was before, we've overcome it. So you can't tell us what kind of things this young man is. Therefore, at this point we will abstain. And I take this opportunity, President, to ask for a separate vote on points 1, 2, 4 and 18, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.83.0	All right. Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs Anna Erra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.84.0	Thank you, President. Today we find ourselves with a young man who presents us with the PSC that highlights two questions: the first would put in doubt, somehow, the relationship and coordination between the local world and the Generality, and the other, above all, which is a need for more resources and funding throughout this local world and in the complicated situation that we live as a country. We are all very aware of the situation we are living in, the complicated situation, but we also know the role that the gatherings have played at this time. We all know that we have been – and we know that because there are many governors, mayors and mayors here –... that we have seven administrations that we have been more alongside and that we have more face in these complicated situations. And obviously, from a few blocks, from the territory, we all know that we need more resources and more funding to get much better out of this situation. That is why we can agree with this young man's point of view; hence, in most points, as Mr Sanglas commented, we will vote in favour, and we must thank him for having accepted many of the points that we have accepted. Now, in these two questions raised by the young man, I'd like to make a few specifics. First, on the coordination of the local world, one of the premises that this government has demonstrated is that it has a municipalist's visit, and that it takes into account, since from the first moment it made channels of communication, from the first day we had a constant channel of the mayors and mayors with the government. The other, who have allowed us to be in the workplace to listen to our eyes and our needs, as they have always brought us the study, the epidemiological analysis of our municipalities. That is to say, a clear demonstration that the relationship that has – always is normal –... that the government has had with the municipalities, obviously, at this time of the pandemic has still become more accentuated. And on the subject, or on the second point, which would be about financing, the government has to say that it has done all it can, among its few..., shortcomings or little predisposition that it can have of economic possibility. First, that we have been confirmed and reached the definitive resolution of PUOSC; also, as I was commenting, this co-operation fund of 120_millions; also it has guaranteed us the continuity of all Feder projects. And, as you also asked in the motion, and that we have not been accepted, we have secured the liquidity for 2021 of all the debts that still exist, that it should be said that, in this sense, the government this year, in which we carry 2020, has already paid 21_percent more than in the same period of 2019, above all to give this liquidity to the joints. And, besides, he tried to pay with all speed what the Local Cooperation Fund is. Now, is that all we want? Is that all we need? So, of course not, we all know that; but we need to be aware of the possibilities we have with the country. We all know that Catalonia does not answer the money that comes close to it, and this is where we would like to find the claim on the part of all parties from all this constituent... or from all parliamentary groups. If we all really want the best for Catalonia, we all have to claim the best financing. And it must be said that the Government of Catalonia has tried to mobilise, from now on, EUR 300 million from abroad to deal with the consequences caused by this second wave of the Covid-19, while the Government of the PSOE and Podemos has not earmarked a single euro. And let me remind you that the worst decision..., and that here comes out of the revolt that all the gatherings of all of Spain held when the money of our Romans and our survivors were left. With all this, obviously, we share the need of the local world, but we have to value – we have to value – the effort that this government has made to lie down the needs that we find ourselves in each of our towns and cities. And, like Juntes per Catalunya, we are clear that we lack decision-making capacity, that we lack money, and that this affects us totally on the day-to-day of our country and on the day-to-day of our towns and cities, and even more so in this situation of this pandemic that has overcome the situation. For this reason, we will not stop fighting and working for the well-being and the better life of each of our citizens, but we will not stop fighting because this country is an independent state. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, he has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Susanna Segovia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.86.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... so we find ourselves in front of the first of two motions that we could say are inversely proportional, right? , because they are directly related, but all two just do an absolutely contrary approach to each other. In this case, the Socialist Party is responsible for all the infra-financing of the municipalities of the Government of Catalonia and following that we debate Together for Catalonia does the opposite, responsibility for all the infra-financing of the Government of the State. What is certain is that the people and cities of Catalonia have been, as always, those who have led the response to the emergency, the response to the pandemic; it is not a novelty, it happened also during the 2008 crisis and it has happened again now. Locals have had a proactive, creative attitude: looking for resources that were not there – it has been said –, implementing services that are very much above their skills, looking for resources, relocating people, reorganizing, opening bell hospitals, opening care centers for people without hearing. They've done a lot more than you could expect from a couple of meetings that were already funded by a lot of people and a lot of people. The measures adopted by both the Government of the State and the Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia had to be implemented; measures which had been approved without the transfer of necessary resources and, moreover, measures which in many cases had resulted in avalanche in the entrances of the same groups, with which more had to be done with less resources. But this... what we believe is that they see the two motions, every one of them from their perspective, is the difficult financial problem that the assemblies have. And the hard financing problem they have so that they don't get enough transfers of resources, both on the part of the Government of Catalonia and on the part of the Government of the State, to deal with everything that is their competence and everything that they have taken on more. This overeffort must be compensated with extraordinary transfers of resources from the two main levels of government, the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State, and we will not tire of saying so. But not just that. Also through direct access to management and enforcement of resources from European funds to tackle the social, economic and health crisis. It is necessary to demand and achieve that there is a direct allocation of European foundations to the assemblies, which allows a local landing of the strategic objectives of these European plans with small scale recovery projects, centred on the local, working from the local to the global. In fact, various large European cities, including Paris, Lisbon, Barcelona, Milà, have already asked by letter to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission, which is intended at least 10_percent of these foundations at the local level. We, in general, quite agree with the Socialist Party's motion. We see that he takes a pretty sure picture of the economic situation of local authorities and liquidity difficulties, and that's why we believe– and, yes, we give support, we agree– that the Generality should be able to make up for these actual expenses; a fact that goes far beyond what has been announced, that they are basically weeds for which they have actually paid and spent the joints throughout this pandemic. At the same time, we want to point out as a fundamental step the fact of the liberation of the Romans of the secret of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, and remember who approved the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, that they are those who are now very much talking about the need to just remove it, and they are the People's Party and it was also in their moment Democratic Convergence. Therefore, we believe that it is a fundamental step that has been taken in this step forward, that we can use the romans of the assemblies, but that is not enough. This is why we also support the different initiatives, both from the Spanish Federation of Municipalities, as well as from the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and also the Catalan Association of Municipalities, because the Ministry of Heritage creates foundations and external resources for the assemblies, such as the foundation for supporting public transport urban collection of 400_million euros, which has to cover the deficit generated for this service during the pandemic, but above all also the creation of this unconditional foundation of 3,000_million euros of extraordinary transfers for the assemblies. And as we believe that this is a proposal that generates the consensus and support of most groups and of the majority of assemblies throughout the Spanish State, we ask the Government to be quick to approve the decree that must regulate this foundation that has been demanded and created; a foundation that must be able to extend the margin of manoeuvre to finance, basically to the assemblies that are now found in problems and situations of risk to finance, and that will allow them to care for people with more vulnerability. We believe and defend that the local world, in an emergency scene, what it claims and needs is a shared commitment to get out of the crisis without leaving anyone behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.88.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, first of all, it is worth this debate to make a merit and necessary praise and recognition to the local world, the first administration with which the citizenry and the citizenry find themselves, and the one that responds in the first instance to all their needs. The gatherings are making a huge effort to cope with the crisis and help people meet all their needs, and most of the time, much above their skills and possibilities, especially from the local government. And they do it by giving their faces, they do it without loving themselves, without taking responsibility, unlike the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State. And they do so with participation, with dialogue and concertation with the social and economic agents of the territory, unlike the Government of the Generality, which is a government that neither dialogues nor agrees with social reality, with the social agents of our country. On the other hand, as a general view, we also need to see how, in this motion and what we will see later, the Socialist Party is demanding responsibilities from the Generality and Juntes for Catalonia is demanding responsibilities from the State. What we ask of you is that, please, you assume your responsibilities in those governments in which you are, in which you participate and do so now also in relation to the local world. Finally, we shall vote in favour of this motion, except in point 5, which we shall abstain from, in so far as it refers to sanctioning measures which, from our point of view, have been used for the purpose of recaptancy and practice, from our point of view, discretionary repression. We also have to say that we liked the young woman better than after the exams. The presupposition for municipal clean-up and disinfection to schools has fallen; the economic endowment has fallen to inspect the empty habitats, which seems to us to make the motion respect its initial layout. We also have to recognize that with the papers it has improved, asking to force the electrical companies to sign the agreement to fight against the poor energy. In any case, we also want to point out, and above all, the need for more money to be made available to local authorities and for a significant part of these European funds to be transferred directly to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, in later term and to pronounce on the papers presented, has a new turn to Congresswoman Moreta. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.90.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Bloods, I don't know the government of Republican Esquerra in my municipality. I'm in opposition. I'm not part of the Republican Left government, just to make it clear, huh? And then you come out here and say I didn't talk about the lady. I talked about the Feds, I talked about the co-operation fund, I talked about the school board, I talked about zero-three education, I talked about sanctions to local cops, and you told me I didn't talk about anything. Maybe what I'm talking about is that he doesn't care that I'm talking about it, because that's what you don't accept. We'd have to be a little more careful, too. On the other hand, it is true that we have agreed, but always with such absurd discussions, right? , that we want to demand that the Generality pay to the gatherings that surrounds them, and you, every time we talk about demanding, say to us: "Home no, do not demand, we guarantee... Home, is that the Aragonese comes out here and always says: "We demand the Government of Spain... Home..., is that the truth is that we are not doing well, eh? Of all manners, Mrs. Error, is it true or not that the Generality is late? Is there such a morosity, yes or no, toward the gatherings? Yeah, right? It exists. So that's what we're asking, huh? And Mr. Manu Reyes. Look, we've accepted the papers. Do you know why? Because the government of Spain is already doing this. You've already laid a foundation for reconstruction, which you've never – ever – done in all the years you've ruled, and you're able to come here and say we don't and don't stop. Well, anyway, I think we've come to terms with this young man. It's true, Mr. Riera, that we liked each other better before, but when we talk about dialogue and sometimes pacts, we have to give up a little, and so what we've done is try to give up because municipalism, locals have what they deserve and that this government, once, huh? You do the work you have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the impact of the Covid-19 on the local world]] [[302-00264/12]] After the debate, let's go to the next point, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the impact of the Covid-19 on the local world; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. In order to expose her, has the parable of Mrs Marta Madrenas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.92.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Benvolut Counsellor, Members and Members, Companies, Companies, Today we are debating a lot and we are legally debating a lot about what we are living in this country. It's logical. We are experiencing a dramatic situation, a very difficult situation in which all administrations must manage with them surely new and diverse, because it is a huge and unknown complexity, never surely experienced by many people who have responsibilities to manage it. And so, so, well, it's logical that today we talked a lot, maybe giving a few turns about it. And it's true, as it is now, therefore, that there are various formulas to face the debate about the needs of the local world, right? I just have a little reflection on what Mrs. Moreta said before. That I know it hard, because I think I was so passionate the other day defending, so, the stage in which they wanted to get us together with the theme of the surplus – that I understand, huh? And they didn't like the passage I put in, did they? – that today has also been very vehemently, direct to some of the statements. But, of course, I'm back to posing like a little hard not to say what I'm going to say now. And I was still studying – and I looked like I was, like, years ago, huh? , I mean, a few decades – that Minister Borrell said they would do the unfolding of National II. Listen, a few decades. I'm not going to explain any of the investments that we're going to be put in the presupposition right now, if they're going to be put in, because what we need is to be done. Thirty years for the unfolding of the national II. Therefore, to gironine comarques do not come to explain to us the plugs of millions that will put us in the presuppositions of the Socialist Party. And, as he said so directly to me, so I only set this one example, which is an example of a country. Here it is true that what we intend to do together for Catalonia – and I am very pleased that many have done so in their previous interventions – is to make a recognition on the part of Parliament – and that was very important – of the efforts, the commitment of the local world in its conjunction. And it's true, and it's very repeated, they're the most city-friendly administrations. And they are the ones who have suffered most, too, precisely because of this, because of this proximity, to be touching, every day to be close to the canon of every difficulty, of every citizen with names and surnames. And in this sense, therefore, it was the one we intended in the first place, to make this recognition to the compromise, to the strength and to how unthinkable it is, the local world has been in managing this crisis. And in the second place and without any..., which could also be dealt with as previously done, so, what are the resources, help and collaboration with the Government of Catalonia, we also want to make contributions respect how from the Spanish State... Because, listen, we would not want to, because we have said it sometimes that we want to have a similar state, but for the time being the State that is here is Spanish, and it is logical, therefore, that we are referring to it. And I don't think I can go into comparison, because the imbalance is brutal, that vagina comparing every time the possibilities the Catalonian Government has with the Spanish State, right? And I think it's important to diagnose well, to speak rigorously, and sometimes, so I think the tree doesn't let them see the woods. And the forest here is able to define how this lack of compromises of the Socialist Party in the Spanish government respects the assemblies. And I'm going to go to the grass, because it's very explicit here in this young man. But, listen, now the joints are very worried because they still don't know what the Spanish government's liquidation is. And that's vital to be able to face all these days that are coming. They don't know what direct help they're coming, who don't come yet. They don't know they're going to take them to public transport, which they haven't determined yet. And, listen, the main difficulties that Spanish citizenship is experiencing, all of them are born in relation to their competitions: tax increases, reduction of the quotas of the autonomous, that they do not only reduce them but increase them, that they pay the ERTOS at once. All the most important difficulties that citizens are currently facing are the competitions of the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.93.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.94.0	In this sense, therefore, we ask that you make this recognition to the local world for the compromise you have and, at the same time, that you recognize the funding deficit that effectively applies the Spanish State to the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Manuel Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.96.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, a moment ago we saw a motion from the Socialist Party criticizing the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, criticizing the government's little commitment, drawing out a whole list of outstanding issues – and we share – and doing so in the previous motion. And now we are faced with a motion that does exactly the same thing, but on the contrary: Junts per Catalunya presents a whole series of recriminations of issues that remain pending by the Spanish government towards the Socialist Party. It is clear and we share the PSC motion criticizing the Government, and we also share the Junts per Catalunya motion criticizing the Socialist Party and Podemos government. That is, the two motions are right: both incompetent and incompetent, of course; neither have lived up to the circumstances – either one or the other – nor the Government of Spain has been at the side of the municipalities. You have been alone, orphans; you have not helped municipalism at all, neither Catalan nor Spanish – at all, have you not? Therefore, yes, we share both reflections, both motions, because they have not done the duties either. Speaking of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, there are many criticisms made by the municipalities: the lack of coordination with the local world has been evident for many months, for many weeks; the lack of trackers, they were lacking to be able to follow up well and to prevent new outbreaks. That has not been done well by the Generalitat of Catalonia. Lack of indicators, sharing information. Nor have they been recriminated from the municipalities, from the local governments to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, because it did not share information. Moreover, where was the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia when Catalan children had no computers or internet connections to follow the academic course remotely? Where was that government? There have been the municipalities putting resources that they didn't have to use to help their neighbors, their citizens, their children. But the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia was neither expected nor expected. Where was the Government of Catalonia to make the PCRs, to give EPIs? It was the municipalities that helped the geriatric residences by supplying material because it did not arrive from the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Where was the Government and where has it been for a very long time, denying the municipalities resources, for example, on such an important issue as education between zero and three years, financing the Bressol schools? It has been the municipalities, it has been the families who have financed the Bressol schools because the Generalitat of Catalonia did not do so, because they have had to go to the courts to do so. Where was the Generalitat of Catalonia? And where was he also in primary care centers, closing primary care centers, not providing our doctors, our nurses, our hospitals, our outpatient clinics with the necessary resources? You closed out outpatient clinics instead of putting more resources, more means – economic and human –, more personal. It's what the municipalities claimed, it's what the citizens claimed. But they have not had much help from the Spanish Government either. A government in Spain worried about closing its budget, about settling the budget. And a moment ago the deputy of the Socialist Party reminded us of the Minister of Health, Mr Ernest Lluch, who will now, in a few days' time, make twenty years of his murder by ETA – the murder by ETA – how do you, the Socialist Party, want to agree the general budget of the state with Bildu, with the heirs of ETA? How do you negotiate and blood-stain the general budget of the state? We can't share that, we can't share it. We cannot share that they try to raise resources for the municipalities in the reconstruction fund by cutting resources, in the transport fund by limiting those much-needed resources to the municipalities. Look, you don't have any complexes in a settlement with Bildu or in a settlement with the independenceists in the Barcelona City Council, in many municipalities, in the metropolitan area, in the district council. Therefore, start to really worry about the concerns that the whole citizenry has, the Catalans, the rest of the Spaniards, and not divide us – and not divide us – as they are doing now also with the Celaá law that is being debated today in the Congress of Deputies. Regrettably the attitude of the Socialist Party, regrettably. That is why we are going to continue to defend municipalism proposals here in the Parliament of Catalonia and in all the forums where the People's Party is present, because it is really the municipalities that are giving the size now at such difficult times, when our citizens are having a bad time, when so many companies, when so many self-employed do not arrive at the end of the month, when so many people enlarge the lists of ERTEs without charging – without charging, socialist gentlemen – when you raise the quotas to the self-employed at the worst moment in the history of Spain. That's what that government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias is doing, and we don't share it. And we will continue to criticize what until there is a change here in Catalonia and also at the head of the Government of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.97.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francesc Viaplana has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.98.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, counselor, I want to start thanking MP Madrenas for her willingness to accept our papers and for the transaction we have made. And I'm going to go ahead and vote in favour of all the points. Also, thank you for bringing this young man here, for the recognition of the gatherings for all the work we do. And that's what I'm saying, the gatherings are on the front line, taking them all, far beyond our competitions. Also for the denunciation of the chronic infra-finance that we skate. And that's exactly the problem, that in order to answer the citizen we need resources, and these do not arrive. I can assure you that the nicest thing there is when you're in a meeting is when you can help people. On the other hand, the most frustrating thing is when you have so many people who need help and you have no resources and no way to help them. In the same way, the motion notes the State's incompliments towards the Generality, which end up aggravating the lack of financing of the local world: the non-execution of assumptions, the non-payment of the third additional provision, the 50_per_cent default of the payment of the Law of Dependence, etc. And what is claimed in this young man? So the government of the state announcements are black on white, which is materializin. That aid should come for temporary Gloria and Dana, that transfers to local authorities should increase, that the percentage of management of the joints, of the European foundations, for the struggle against the Covid-19 is increased. That's what he does to the State. But the opposition cannot say that this young man is not asked for anything from the Generality, because there is no one here for everyone. Let me start... no, in fact, Congressman Reyes, in the intervention you made, I had nice words for your thought, but I don't want to devote a minute to you. The first item that we have presented by the Republican Group and that we have traded is because it is flexible the PUOSC, both in terms of the part that we have to bring together. Right now we're facing some Covid-derived emergencies, and it can't be that we're bringing the language to run projects in terms, or that we're not making the part that we need to bring together a couple of times we have the definite projects that we'll end up running. The second point that we have presented, referring to the preparation of everything so that in the next parliamentary term the Generalitat functioned in a vegatorial way since the minute, is that someone may think that they do not get into this young man's room. As far as I'm concerned, he's wrong. The assemblies need a proper administration, which understands the different territorial realities of the country and gives us a response to our casuistics. And that, with the Covid-19, is more necessary than ever. Finally, the message presented for the commons is that local administrations are to be taken into account in the strategy of descalation and in the measures to be applied in the face of the health, economic and social crisis. At this point it would not be fair for you not to say that we meet together every week electronically with representatives of different departments, if you are informed and if you expose our doubts and our requests. Today is perhaps the last day I will speak from this Faristol, since I will not again present myself to the next elections to Parliament. The year that I'm taking over the mayor of Your Ladyship and I want to devote all my efforts to the assembly. I think it's the one that plays in such complicated times that we're living. There are a lot of people who are going through it very badly, and I want to be at a hundred per cent for them. It has been an authentic honor to be part of this chamber, and an experience that will always accompany me. Finally, allow me to express an opinion. And I want to make it clear that it's just an opinion, in case I want to give lessons, because I don't know who to do it. To my understanding, here we are to confront ideas, to debate, to reach agreement. But if we go to the essence, I understand that we are serving citizenship and helping people. I recommend that every day, when you leave Parliament, when you cross the door, you ask how you served and how you helped people. Because many times it seemed to me that, in view of worrying about helping people, many Members and Members of Parliament were concerned about cameras, photographs or the evil Twitter. And I don't think that's what we're expecting. Right now. Thank you very much. It was a pleasure. Visca Catalunya and visca Pirineu! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Héctor Amello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.100.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... A moment ago, my colleague Munia Fernández said, and I'm going to ask her in question: do you know which administration holds the largest debt to the municipalities? Yes, the one you're thinking: the Government of the Generalitat, who pays late, pays badly, or never. And now they come here to do what they know best and what they have done many times, which is to centrifuge precisely their responsibility and create a smokescreen to hide the chaos of their management, the uncertainty and the entanglements that you generate and are suffering the citizens of all Catalonia during all these days and during all these months. I think everyone knows them and it's obvious that we've all seen them. The financing of municipalities by the State must, of course, be improved. It will have to be flexible, and it will have to be done. It is clear that we will have to do that. Even more so in this context of the health, economic and social crisis that is affecting all municipalities so much and that it has had a very negative impact on the local arks and a very negative impact on all citizens. But this Government of the Generalitat is the one that mainly neglects the needs of the municipalities. Do you know how much money per capita, through local recovery funds, is used to deal with the Covid Government of the Generalitat? For it barely allocates fifteen euros per citizen, at best, to deal with the worst crisis we are experiencing. TV3 is almost double, more than double. We have proposed an amendment to create a line of economic aid and co-financed projects for the attention of the Covid emergency, but they have refused to accept it. In fact, they have not accepted any of the amendments that we have tabled. They also demonstrate your commitment and the priorities you have with the local world. You've been wrapping yourself in the flag and forgetting about the city halls for a decade. They do not pay their dues, they do not assume the competences they have to assume, they do not co-finance the projects they have to undertake. An obvious example is the accumulated debts, known to all, and outstanding to finance education from zero to three years, that despite the court rulings that force them to pay the debt, you are sent letters to the municipalities telling them to pay them to ten years. That is, a debt they acquired as of 2012 will end up paying it in 2029. It seems to us serious that they do not want to accept an amendment on the commitment to the immediate payment of accumulated debts for the financing of education from zero to three years. What the Government cannot do either is that, because of its cowardice and its refusal to assume its powers, it is the municipalities that bear certain burdens that limit the budgetary capacity of the municipalities. You must bear the costs of your health policies, of your social policies, of home care, and not leave the municipalities alone and turn your back on the citizens, as you are doing. Nor can this Government stop co-financing slum upgrading projects. They started with the process, stopped making departures for the Neighbourhood Act, and while the Government was diverting money to swell the processist souffle, became many of our insecure cities, could not face comprehensive rehabilitation, the neighbors lost quality of life. And what were you doing in the meantime? Well, go ahead and go ahead. And today, too, they refuse to accept another amendment that we have put before them to draw up, precisely, a new neighbourhood law and provide the budget. Nor do they want to accept our proposal for a new call for the Single Plan for Works and Services, with an economic envelope in the coming budgets. In the current budget you continue to waste millions of euros in doubles, in chiringuitos, in embassies, in party associations, but when it comes to co-financing projects, eliminating barracks, improving neighborhoods or fighting insecurity, for which you absolutely find no resources, you have never found them. It is clear that the municipalities have made a great effort. But that lewdness of duties that you have also carried out has been done with the approval of many mayors who have come to this Parliament to shake the rod and to set sail with the process, but have kept silent in demanding the Government to comply with its obligations and not to set aside the municipalities or to set aside the citizens. And, at the same time, these mayors and these mayors financed separatist entities such as the ANC with public money. That is why we have also demanded that the Government exercise its powers of financial guardianship to ensure that citizens' money does not end up in the hands of separatist entities and that political neutrality, political pluralism and local competences are violated. But they did not want to accept this amendment either. We – and I tell you this – both from here and from the municipalities, where there is a representative of Citizens, will demand the payment of the accumulated debt that the Generalitat maintains with the municipalities, that they assume their powers and that they comply with the agreed payment commitments. And although none of the amendments that we have tabled have been accepted, the majority of the proposals that you put to us will be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.102.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... so let's go to the second part of the debate about the local world's motions in a time of pandemic. The truth is that the first time we read the initial motion – the initial one, not the one that has finally remained – of Junts per Catalunya on the repercussions of the Covid on the local world, so man, it seemed to us, a little, a joke, more quickly, huh? Because barging in on one single motion recognition to the local monsoon, with the debt pending, with the theme of the Mossos, seemed to us to be talking about one thing but after voting some other things. We believe that the young man has now improved considerably, I mean, we believe that an effort has been made to accept items that he actually sees with the local world, and that greatly improves the young man, while, for our part, he was only one of the items that he accepted and the rest have not been taken into consideration. I believe that what this young man was looking for, somehow, with the initial requests there, was a new smokescreen to preserve the indifference and insensitivity of the Government of the Generality to the local world, and especially throughout the pandemic. I think we can sum it up in two things that do not have much to do with what the representative of the Republic Group has commented. He must have a direct way because there is so much discussion with the Government of the Generality, because basically there was no dialogue or consensus or dialogue, more so than some meetings with representatives of the Catalan Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities. Coordination spaces, few, with the so-called counts. And we can make a full list of the disasters that we experienced throughout the first state of alarm and then: the collapse of the food business; the disinterest in front of the proposals of the campanile hospitals, which many assemblies proposed proactively and had no response on the part of the Generality; the refusal to open the CAPs; the refusal to intervene residents, despite the alert criteria and alert tricks of the assemblies; insecurity in front of the school staff; the nullity of the planning of the descalation and of the new measures before the contagion wave, which, in the event that they have consented to the meetings, until they fail to inform decisions on restrictions or participation in the definition of these measures, which they have formally left behind. The joint ventures have not rejected the transfer of 3,400_million euros from the Government of the State. Meanwhile, what the Government of the Generality was doing during the pandemic was leading to the opposition of the Government of the State. There was no economic appeal that came from the Government of the Generality – we have already talked about this – despite the number of statements by municipal authorities, with the fall of the reconstruction of the month of April, which called for the recovery that has not just arrived, the assembly motions or the unanimous agreement of the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, where Together for Catalonia voted in favour, more than two vice-presidents, and the Republican Left two more, in the band of the Presidency. And, even if it is a statement from the same Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, we vote in favour, this is not concrete. The call for this agreement was to increase the Local Cooperation Fund by EUR 200 million, but there was no response. In fact, it is that even the whole announcement of an extraordinary local cooperation fund of 120_million euros in two years, so up late and insufficient. And it's not that we just say it, it's that the president of the Catalan Association of Municipalities, Lluís Soler, of Juntes per Catalunya, also says it's not enough and it's more resource intensive. That's why we've proposed this to you all along, but well, it's from those that you didn't consider relevant to your young man, because his obsession was basically to say that it's all the State's fault, that everything that is State resources. But when they get their resources, they don't spend them! If they're going with the warden! They go with the guard and the calculator. And we already have many ways to go: "Gastin! If they're in debt! Gastin and he's in debt! They have now rejected 3,200_million euros, more than 20_percent of the total state, and do not spend; they have debt capacity, and do not spend. The expense rule has been suspended. You ask that the announcement of the suspension is made that the assemblies can use the Romans. If it's ever happened! And they're still asking for more resources. It's that they're asking for more resources to deal with the impacts of Dana and Gloria and they had to make 4_million_i_mig because they weren't able to execute the money they had. If they get more money now, what will they do with it? I think it would be good for this Parliament, indeed, to do this gesture of thanksgiving to the assemblies, but what they want the assemblies, above all, is facts, resources, compromises, real coordination; no rhetorical statements, which seem to me to already have a few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix her position, she has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs.Alícia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.104.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. MPs and MPs, hello again. Well, I don't know what congressman said that this was a young man who, listen, was calling everybody's responsibilities. Well, you have to be after accepting statements, because before accepting statements, this Juntes resolution proposal for Catalonia was still critical of the State: "We note the failure and ask Parliament to urge the Government to urge the State to do not know how many things. I said before my companion Marta Moreta, we are in the Parliament of Catalonia, here what we do is control the government and propose to the government that you do things. Obviously, we can also urge the government to work with the state government to get more resources. But, of course, it seems that here what we do is opposition to opposition. It's pretty surreal. I would obviously like to recognize the work and dedication that the gatherings are doing. I think my company Marta Moreta has been doing so many things. There has been a disaster in the coordination with the assemblies, there has been a lack of dialogue, there has been a lack of information and, obviously, we have not coordinated with the food vessels, nor with the opening of the schools, nor even with the expansion of the CAPs, that the assemblies have been available to everything. They have even opened aid for self-government and the business sector. They have also purchased tablets with connection for their students, which the Generalitat has not done, because this connection has only reached, for the time being, 30_percent of the students. And, therefore, it seemed that the Government of the Generality had not just come out. You ask for things in the State and, obviously, you also have to demand it in the State. But I would like to say that apart from the Romans who have already made themselves available to the gatherings, the general assumptions of the State for the coming year lay 19,000_million foundations for the gatherings– 19,000. Do you know how many of them you have in the joints after this management disaster you've done to them? So look, he came for this – came, came, came, two zeros, came for this – and cents for the coming year. One hundred and twenty. Okay. All right, then. I believe that joint gatherings have been spent much more resources – and you, Mrs. Madrenas, have known, that you are mayor – to deal with the pandemic – much more. And the generality decides that it's come, and a hundred for the year that's coming, it's got to be enough. Home, so we don't seem to. Talk about PUOSC through an Esquerra theme. Well, the PUOSC, which you presented 250_million euros in the next four years. Just say that the Montilla government, in set, spent 850. I mean, who believes in gatherings? Who believes in gatherings? Oh, sorry, the PP. It's true, isn't it? Mr. Reyes. Now it turns out that the great defender of the assemblies is the People's Party, which approved the LRSAL, which offered the assemblies. The great defender of the municipalities: the People's Party. That's the one we can't listen to. Miri, I'm also not giving lessons to anyone, but obviously the Socialist Party, as it is close to it, so the celebration of the assassination or the commemoration of the assassination of Ernest Lluch, affects us very much. I was listening to Ernest Lluch's daughter, Eulàlia Lluch, who said, "I don't want anyone to use my father's name to make party politics. [[Greetings.]] Ernest Lluch's daughter said: "I don't want anyone using my father's name to make party politics. And that's what the People's Party does. Stop using names of victims murdered by ETA. ETA doesn't exist. It's been nine years. Thanks to democracy and thanks to the work of so many people. So, I left you, I left you to mess with it and put it all away. Thanks to the people, ETA disappeared. And it's been nine years since we've had her and she's not murdering. Unfortunately, he murdered Ernest Lluch, that's true. But don't use the names of people, especially when they don't have permission, because your daughter gave us that yesterday. And it's not you, neither, the defenders of the gatherings, who have suffocated them enough in the years that you were in the Government of Spain. Look, you also say the reason that... well, there's been so many economic failures on the part of the State. I'd like to tell Junts for Catalonia that many of these incompliments were in the presupposition of 2019, that you and Esquerra Republicana went through the whole thing and caused it not to be processed. But both the payment of the VAT, as deute de Mossos, as part of the third additional provision, all this was in the assumptions of 2019 and you presented the issue to the totality. Now they've also presented the totality. Clearly, it's easier than not to do things because you can keep complaining about everything. If it is very easy, the position of "in the complaint, in the complaint, in the complaint, in the accounts of doing or in the accounts of letting do; it is much easier and much more comfortable. Well, we'd like more responsible policies that when they claim things and put them on the table, they pick them up. Not like you guys. Therefore, we will claim to the Government of the State everything you need. Now, man, not Dana and Gloria, huh? , that you will have to make 4_million_i_mig euros. And with Gloria, which was now at the beginning of the year, the State has already finished the Malgrat Bridge, for example; a bridge that cost them a lot of resources, which made the train route cut for a while. So the State has already finished this work. I mean, a lot of lessons don't work. But in any case, we demand ourselves and we demand the others too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.105.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.106.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we'll vote in favour of this young man, too. Actually, we agree, the joints are the first front, as you say. The state's debt with the joints is obvious, it can't be denied. In relation to the temporary Gloria and Dana, much agrees that it is more than a year ago and to put the money in it. And in relation to the Romans. In relation to the Romans, what we always claim: the solution is the repeal of the LRSAL. That's obvious. And, on the other hand, also the repeal of all the presuppositional stability regulations that have governed all these years of the return of public services and retail. We also have to tell them that, again, we find ourselves in front of a young man who governs the Generality, who pushes the chips to hold the State accountable. Listen, we're also asking you to assume your responsibility from the Generality. Why, do you know what's going on? That the gatherings are found every day face to face – they are found every day face to face – and they must give emergency answers to everyone you leave for the street: the autonomes and autonomes, the workers of culture, the workers of the restoration and of the bars, workers and workers precarious or at the dawn, people without habitation, etc. That is to say, the gatherings are found and we find each and every day who you leave behind with your policies. And another time we'll talk about participation, concertation. I think it's also important for you to govern, unlike how you're doing now at a time of decree and without a dialogue, without consultation with social workers, with the assemblies. Please, dialogue, something you're not doing at these times. Participation is essential at these times. In these moments of a great challenge for public policies, participation is fundamental, which you are not applying to your policies with the assemblies. And look, lastly, do you want to help the gatherings? Do you really want to help them? Apart from transferring money, which is a priority, they enforce closed CAPs. They don't tank and reverse what they've closed, P3 classrooms, P4 classrooms; they take responsibility for the bressol schools; they actually dowry, with real needs, the district hospitals, many of which at these times are saturated. Please, answer the residences, answer the residences of great people, which is a very difficult problem; take public responsibility in the management of these residences with all the consequences. They guarantee a housing plan so that people are not left without housing and have to go to seek support after emergency situations, etc. So they want to make local policies? You assume your responsibilities in the territory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.107.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has a turn of new Congresswoman Madrenas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.108.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. We have accepted various points, various additions, above all some which precisely show that we have not come to centrifuge anything, because, for example, therefore, it is about the government's outstanding debt with the joints, and we also ask that it be paid, or how, for example, to take decisions collaboratively with the joints. And, therefore, we have not come to centrifuge absolutely anything, and it shows the same acceptance of these items. We thank all the parliamentary groups that support us in this young man, as well as all the contributions that have been made, especially to Congressman Viaplana. I hope that you have, therefore, a long political life of all kinds, long and fruitful, and that you have many, many successes. What we didn't accept, that's true, is the 'and you' more. So we didn't accept these, did we? And now there's been a few of them. So these aren't, huh? We haven't talked to the generality before, but "and you haven't found what you've been feeling here. I would like to know, Mrs Romero, what your mayors and mayors think of whether or not they will vote for this young man as drafted. I don't know if... maybe he'd be surprised if they'd get angry with a mike. Respect, too, this attitude of..., that we must feel that they have not paid the debts and the infra-financing to the Generality and that it is our fault..., or else, sincerely, what they have just said, so it is hard, and it sounds a little bit like the position of these rich new people, talking about millions of millions, and degrading those who... So yes, as if they have under-financing, they can allocate few resources to people and to help people, which is what the Generality does. Yes, but you can't act like we're rich. They have the tools, they have the resources to transfer, please; to the Generality who surrounds them and to the joints what they need, because we only want to protect people and we need these resources that they refuse to give us. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.109.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finish this... tell me, Mr. Reyes, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.110.0	President, for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.111.0	Exactly what contradiction?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.112.0	From Congresswoman Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.113.0	No, no, there's no contradiction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.114.0	When he talked about LRSAL...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.115.0	No, no, they're not contradictions. In any case, we would enter into a debate between you; they are not contradictions. Keep going. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into mental salvation]] [[302-00260/12]] The next point is the motion following the question to the Government about mental salvation; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mrs. White Victoria Navarro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.116.0	Thank you, President. Article 43 of the Spanish Constitution recognizes the right to health and the mandate of the public authorities to organize public health through preventive measures and health benefits. However, despite the fact that the text is clear as water, in the area of mental health the concept of protection shines through its absence, and mostly what is offered are health care and without guaranteeing access to all citizens. Article 49 goes further, because it proposes a new mandate to protect people with some kind of disability through policies in the health, social, labour, housing... And Catalonia, being an autonomous community of Spain, has an obligation to comply, also in this case, with the Constitution. And not just for some health problems yes and for others no, because if you attend to some yes and others no, it's discriminating. Too bad the counselor isn't here. The truth is that the proposals we have been making from our group have not been listened to. Neither have the motions been implemented..., the resolutions that we Members of this Parliament have adopted, and we already see that, although the control exercised by this House over the Government is one of the pillars of democracy, we see that this control does not interest it, and we already see that it is more, perhaps, to close dessert contracts. Anyway... and to discriminate. Because, indeed, what is happening with the families of people with mental health problems is discrimination. The Department of Salut is hiring suppliers the resources to care for them, but as they are insufficient families have to organize themselves to self-proportionate whatever the Administration does not give them. And for this they receive subsidies from the Department of Social Afers, with rates much lower than those of the Department of Salut, which are also not enough to cover the cost of therapies; so families have to look for life doing activities, such as selling roses in Sant Jordi and these things, in order to be able to look for funds to cover the expenses of therapies. If, moreover, the providers derive more families from them, instead of asking the Administration to provide them with more resources to care for them, which would be their obligation, what we have is a low cost financing system, which also involves a great effort for families, that if, above all, in the health crisis we have for the pandemic, they cannot do these activities, they are left without funding the therapies and they are left without treatment. But, hey, it's that protecting the right to health is an obligation of the Administration, it's not an obligation of families, who have enough to care for their family members who are affected. And what they have done is, in this case, stop publishing the information, so that... they don't make it public, and they already play like children in hiding, covering their eyes. The other day I was listening in the park to some people talking about how worried they were that they were not being treated for their illnesses in the public health system. They did not talk about mental health issues, but, among other things, because people affected enough have to bear the discriminatory scourge of stigma and usually do not talk about these problems openly, but when asked what we are told is that they need a change in the model of mental health care, they need a model of community care, based on prevention, that exercises an effective and effective integration of the health system and the social system, that is based on psychotherapy, psychoeducation, that promotes empowerment and that accompanies social and labour integration. None of this is what characterizes the mental health care system right now. What they are offered, in many cases, does not serve them. And this is not only the opinion of families and users, because a lot of professionals agree that this change of model is necessary. However, CatSalut is deaf to his requests. Just as in the 1970s and 1980s there was a revolution in mental health care, with the deinstitutionalization and closure of the frenopathics, it is now necessary to take a step further towards the community approach, because the hospital leaves only when prevention has failed or when the means that are not being put in place are lacking. Forty years later, mental care is inevitably engaged in a new revolution, in which patients and families are treated and made decisions are made with them, not by them, and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is complied with once and for all. I ask the groups for their support to be facilitators and not resistances in this change of model and in this revolution. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament, Assumpta Escarp, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.118.0	President, thank you. Good afternoon, yeah. Today at this plenary session we will see two motions, one on salvation, on mental salvation, and one on primary care. And preparing a little motion and seeing the papers presented, so and in general, are two aspects that we have been dealing with repeatedly – repeatedly – throughout this legislature; I mean, we have barely resolved if we continue to insist on it. And, above all, we have also repeatedly not spoken during Covid-19; among other things..., and I believe that we have not spoken many times here, and we have also approved agreements for what he has supposed and for what Covid-19 is supposed to be about the aggravation of existing pathologies, but above all with the increase of people with affections, many times leu, but who need a more immediate appeal, fruit many times of uncertainty, anguish, insecurity or the same closure, which is difficult to recognize as mental illness, but which is actually a manifestation; who has not been sadder during this whole period? And, therefore, these things are there. And it is true that primary care – and here the relationship also with mental salvation – is not able to answer many of these needs; among other things, because of the lacks they have, because it is obvious that resources have diminished. And, above all, in the attention to mental salvation, what is obvious is that private recourse is very easy. "It is very easy to say that there is not a public offer either in the primary resources or in the most specialized resources, that the public basically ends up in concert with the private, but there are enough private resources, with which we always end up generating this double rod or double shave between who can and can't pay for it, especially when we talk about childhood and adolescence, and especially if we talk about programs of need, as defined by this motion, of specific attention programs on the driver's spectrum, food disorders or disorders related to youth and adolescence; it's a lot of the recourse that comes from the private. I have had my more and my less with the deputy Blanca Navarro, he knows that always with « dear, about..., because I have presented him with a note, because..., that in the end I think that..., they make reference to point 1 and point 2. Because it seemed like they were giving by fact and by reason of the fact that there wasn't enough public coverage in mental health, so... the concert system was already good for us, and I didn't hear it. I see that with the transactions and contributions of the rest of the parliamentary groups, and the honourable Member's good predisposition, we have basically come to an agreement to hear that it is what she wanted to set up. Because, look, I'm shocked when I see myself, in the province of Tarragona, for example, with an index of high benefits, and the one that has the most benefits is Pere Mata; because it seems very strong to me. Because Father Mata, who is a center of important mental salvation, specialized mental salvation, therefore, very... most of his financing is public. So, this was, a little, confusing. But I think we've handled it enough by giving the strength we want to public attention; also in the second part, on the subject of support for family members, attentive to the paper they have, phonative, in these things. I would not like to expand, because in principle we will give support to the movement, also to the transactions that have been carried out, but I would like to make two comments. One is with reference to risk, the suicide risk code, which we share. I took a little part in the inn on the way, too, in the territorial area, and what I think we have to achieve is territorial equity, which is not there; that is, in Barcelona we can have some resources that other places are not. And suicide is a preventable death. And we've always said, "Suicide is a death, but it's a death of two more people who are behind and who are alive behind a suicide. And since I'm here and I don't know if we're going to talk about mental health again, I appreciate the presentation they made to us the other day about mental health and affected by great complexity, because I think that, in this sense– and I know that I'm very critical of the Health Department, but when things are good, I also say –, a very important effort has been made to attend to great complexity and it costs a lot of social understanding, but I think it's worth it. Thank you very much. And, like I said, we'll give support to the lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.120.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, counselor, the Covid has caused another pandemic that was already latent in our society: a much bigger mental health crisis, as already before the pandemic there was an increase in the levels of anxiety and depression. In the city of Barcelona, 48,9_per_cent of the citizenry lived very hard home confinement, 15_per_cent lived it alone and 60_per_cent of the young people believe that the virus will harm their lives more, and more than half claimed that it has affected them psychologically. They are data from Barcelona, but they can be extrapolated to the whole of Catalonia. The families of the more than 15,200 people killed by the Covid have not been able to live normally the process of mourning, not to mention the increase in suffering caused in people with psychological diseases. In the first hour of the virus, we experience situations of fear, of fear towards a totally unknown disease. In this second wave, the uncertainty caused by the disease is compounded by the anguish and indignation caused by the economic and social crisis. We know that the economic situation is one of the conditions of health and mental health. Unemployment, low wages, not reaching the end of the month, not being able to pay the mortgage, rent or supplies, being able to lose the house or employment cause stress and anguish. The worsening living conditions and inequalities have a negative impact on mental health. We have a health system that does not adequately incorporate mental health care, as is done with the treatment of biological diseases. Historically, given the lack of public mental health care, civil society, the third sector and families have promoted mental health care services, leading to a concerted system of provision, with limited direct public management assistance resources. We must recognize the efforts made by families and the third sector, but it must be the public sector – if we really believe in a public and universal system – that assumes the responsibility of ensuring quality care, with the same opportunities for all people with mental health problems, regardless of income. More and more people are reaching primary care centres with symptoms of emotional distress and without adequate tools. A fragmented view of health continues to be applied without taking into account emotional, social and cultural constraints. It is not just a question of putting psychologists in primary care, as Councillor Comín promised at the time, of adding a specialty without any connection to the rest, but of promoting a collaborative model between primary care teams and mental health teams, in order to respond to emotional suffering. It is necessary to take measures to enable professionals to carry out their work well, with sufficient resources, training and decent working conditions. Investment in virtually non-existent public day centres in comprehensive care centres for children and adolescents is needed, rather than hiring places from private entities with abusive prices and mechanisms for prevention and care for young people. Today we are faced with a proliferation of foundations and macro-entities that obtain bids for services. Such tenders should take into account criteria such as proximity, integration into the territory or transparency and not just economic criteria. Families cannot be forced to make endless journeys, ending up in private institutions, without adequate therapeutic options and without being able to bear the economic cost that is required of them and with few assistance resources that allow attention other than pharmacological care. One of our amendments proposes a new specialized model, that is, one of our amendments proposes a new model. Specialized mental health care, which prioritizes direct management, which fully integrates mental health into primary and community care, is essential. We have reached an agreement with Citizens which assumes the need to prioritise the creation of new resources for direct management. The other two amendments we have tabled put forward a shock plan to deal with the mental health emergency caused by the pandemic, ensuring psychological accompaniment of mourning and emotional support. And the third amendment proposes that the figure of the patient expert in mental health be promoted and recognized, so that he/she is an active part of the different multidisciplinary professional teams. Thank Congresswoman Navarro for her willingness to reach agreements. In Catalonia, we are still far from realizing that the health system incorporates a psychological vision that is not just pharmacological treatment. We are the second country in the world with the most drugs consumed per inhabitant – the first is the United States – and one of the main reasons is the abuse of pharmacological treatments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.121.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.122.0	...in illnesses and mental treatments. I'm done. As WHO says, health depends on the complete state of physical and emotional well-being of a person, not just the absence of disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Najat Driuech has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.124.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, deputies and deputies. Well, mental health disorders are still taboo today, and I can break with stigma. As Mrs Vergés has already indicated, the Department of Health in the field of mental health has very clear priorities. He wants a change in mental health that is fundamentally oriented towards the community and the community, because only from this point of view can we really accompany people and families in their life cycle. He also wants to bet and bet on a structural change: it is not only a matter of salvation, it has to be done in a network to bring about integral and integrated mental salvation; it is to say, to treat people throughout their conjunction, a model of salvation that works with a community vision. And to emphasize that the mental salvation of our country is now more than ever a priority. And we believe that this statement could be demonstrated in the last assumptions, with a reversal of €458_million; that is, an increase of €28_million compared to 2017. We will never tire of saying that, for the Government and for the Parliamentary Group Republic, a community that promotes mental health and attention to the population with special risk and vulnerability is essential to ensure social inclusion, equity and equal opportunities. And following these parameters, to say that the last few years a great deal of work has been done, but, as I said, a very important task of destigmatizing mental illness continues at the social level. For this reason, it is good that the Ciutadans Group presents a motion on this issue and that we are talking about it in its parliamentary office, as it also did, as Mrs Magda Casamitjana said, last week, in her appearance, the director of the Comprehensive Approach to High Complexity Mental Health Program, Mrs Magda Casamitjana, said, so that we continue to see it. So, there's a lot of work done in this area and it's moving forward very positively, and I think that Constable Vergés explained in great detail all the work that had been done from her department in the area of mental health in the pandemic. In fact, he gave concrete data, concrete figures, concrete programmes that showed us here to the Members and Members of Parliament the task that had been done. In fact, she herself announced the new Plan of Action of mental salvation, totally necessary, framed in the strategic lines of the director of Mental Health and Additions. Still, the City Group with this young man seems to want to prove that nothing has been done. Since our group, together with the Group of Together for Catalonia, we have presented different ideas, always respecting the ideas put forward by the group proposing, with the will to adjust them to the reality, to the work that is being done from the different lines already existing, as you know, but we have not been able to reach an agreement at these points, and unfortunately the advance that will not have our support at these points. Because we can't vote points that send an unreal message, it's to say, not recognize the work done. Now, if you have to do a lot of work, it doesn't mean you don't recognize the work done, neither the professionals, nor the entities, nor the task that the department is doing. To finish, therefore, I want to highlight the task of the Health Department, highlighting the challenges we have as a society to normalize mental illness, and more so at a pandemic time like the present, in which it has been shown that this type of pathology has increased and that all of us could go through one of these situations. In any case, I would like to thank the willingness to negotiate the three transactions to MP Blanca Navarro, and we are reaching out to them to continue working as always so that we can get to trading more points. And I would like to end with a sentence – and I finish, President – that it is always with the aim of improving the lives of all people who at some point in their life suffer or suffer some mental illness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.125.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Xavier Quinquilla has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.126.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members of Parliament, I say that we obviously share the need to place mental health as a health and country priority. And in this context comes this young man, with a battery of proposals, to whom, modestly, I will try to put a little order. We have some initial points that raise issues of governance, transparency and accountability. The counselor was quite explicit at the inquiry. The department follows the criteria and legal framework in terms of transparency and accountability. It is true that evaluation processes are essential in any project and organisation, that they must be part of the processes of improvement and that in the field of public administration we still have a lot of scope. This does not mean, in any case, that the department is incomplete with its obligations, nor much less discriminating, as you say in points 3, 4, 5 and 6. Points, all of them, to which we could give support and which entailed better commitments in the attention to collections that deserve all of our recognition and protection, but which we would abstain from because they do not deserve to be used to make unnecessary demagogic and political confrontation. Here we are to build solutions and no problems. Let's solve how to give a better answer to the problem, drama, tragedy of suicide. That is why we will vote in favour of defining a suicide risk plan, as also in point 10, to promote the figure of the patient expert in mental health. At point 9, you propose to push a plate of rock; a plate of rock on which we will abstain, because we share what, but not how. We believe that the best response to the consequences of the pandemic is with policies that look beyond the crisis and that continue in time. Finally, we arrive at point 8, to which we will give support. And I want to thank Mrs. Navarro for the acceptance of the papers presented and also for the willingness to get to transactions in points 1, 2 and 7. One point, the 8th, which is, in fact, on the platform of strategy and priorities with a global look. Because, as I said to the principle, I want to place mental salvation in a first order of priorities, and do so on the mark of a paradigm shift centered on people and with a 360 view. His motion is based above all on the approach, in giving answer to the problems. It's not a toilet, is it? But when at point 8 he talks about prevention and promotion of mental salvation, to which he is calling is the need to anticipate us to the problems. Let focus be placed on two foundational pillars in the anticipatory strategy: prevention and detection, where we certainly have a better margin. For example, in the early detection of neurodevelopmental disorders; a problem that affects between 18 and 20_percent of infants and that if we detect it and approach it early, with a good coordination between Health and school– the Covid pandemic is a great opportunity to strengthen the bonds–, we can generate, we can generate, a great positive impact not only in the field of health, but also in education, since they have a direct relationship with endemic problems such as school dropout, such as school failure and early school dropout; problems that are well resolved can also prevent them from being harder, especially during adolescence, and that also have an impact on social and work environments. And for what it does to prevention, we need a greater awareness of the impact of mental illness on people and the importance of prevention of salvation, both physical and mental and emotional. Physics is socially incorporated, we all have clear habits of healthy nutrition, physical exercise... But what about mental salvation? What about emotional salvation? What good habits do we have incorporated into it? Perhaps – and here I am launching the proposal – it is time to place the promotion of mental and emotional salvation as a priority in public salvation, to enhance the socialization of emotional education and the development of the emotional skills of the citizenry, starting – starting – for school and also, why not? For this house. I'm saying this because we're living in very complicated and turbulent times, and I'm sure people wouldn't be bad for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.128.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was listening right now to the government's press wheel, which explained the descalation. They bring the separation of powers to an extremely incredible, because we are in their parliament now Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament and are making a press wheel explaining the descalation. That's how they keep going. It's just like what we say in the plethora, let's keep it the same. Yes, we would like to thank Mrs Navarro, the distinguished MEP Navarro, the present Member, her contents. We'll just abstain in one point, and then I'll explain it to you. But we want to get into the debate about a question that she raised in her intervention, which is that the Spanish Constitution goes backwards in relation to guarantees of health and guarantees of health care. So, miri, I'm not backing up a real guarantee. We have fundamental rights, 14 and 28; those that are not there are not payable, and therefore depend on a later normal development. We have never believed in this type of constitution and, therefore, we believe that it is also important to place everyone who does not put in a literal Constitution means that it is a guaranteed right. About the young lady's conjunction, which is what we have to pronounce on. Look, we're voting in favour of all points, but we're abstaining from paragraph 2, and we want to explain why. Paragraph 1 makes it clear that the financing of public administration must be given priority. He made this clear; he said this: "prioritising public management. The second apartment makes a reference to how we should equip the entities and the association of family members. For us this can be a way of escape for private management, and therefore we will abstain. That's right, we want to make all the recognition of associations and entities, especially family members, who do an endless job, of terrible human generosity, and that, obviously, what they're doing is covering up where the Administration isn't up. For us politically, the approach was not acceptable, but we will abstain. I, then, two affegid reflections. A first in class claus: suicide and class. We'll see the data, please. We're killing ourselves; that's what it means in terms of class. And a later reflection more complex for the future: mirin, the one who assumed the work in the transformation of the myco into man, the one we would now say of the simi in person, was phonenal. If we don't start seeing complementary measures for what teletreball means, which essentially means keyboards and means working in a winged way, in the future we will pay for it. And, therefore, today we are still in a very low xifra– 8_per_cent, we have just been informed; with data, certainly, not official, but it is what is said from the government –, but it is also important that we see how this affects the human psyche and also pose measures, because teletreball, which can be a very good way of liberation, is not converted to the contrary, into a way of isolation and repression.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.129.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.130.0	Thank you, President. Our group will give full support to the whole movement. The motion addresses, as we have already done or have been doing repeatedly at the length of this legislature, the precariousness or weakness in what mental salvation is found in the mark of primary attention. And, therefore, the need to integrate the attention of mental salvation between what is primary, in order to make it more accessible to people who need this service and who need it with the necessary periodicity, which is not now given at these times, but also with territorial fairness, is to say, that there are people who require a certain attention who can receive this attention independently of the territory in which they are located. The second point we also believe is important, because in mental illness and addiction, families play a very important role. First of all, because they suffer from the evils, they suffer from the circumstances that suffer from the evils, on one side. But, on the other hand, they are also agents that generate knowledge and benefit, both for the treatment of the malalts and for the treatment, also, of other families. And in this sense, the role they make with associations and entities is important. The motion also deals with different aspects that are more specific in relation to the disorder of autistic spectrum, or food conduct, and finally also addresses the effects that the pandemic has on mental health services; in many ways, from the point of view of MP Escarp, the closure or confinement in the first wave, but also in this second wave, has affected a lot of people, people who have lost someone with illness have also required attention and require a follow-up that requires that there be some short-term measures that allow them to attend to all of these people. Therefore, overall, our group will give support to this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.131.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, has a turn, again, the deputy White Victoria Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.132.0	Thank you, President. Yes, I too would like to thank the groups that have tabled amendments for their interest in improving the motion. And well, a little in response to the comments you have made, because, indeed, at no time have we said that absolutely nothing is being done. Things are being done, of course, doing the department is full of functional plans and strategic plans with very good intentions, as are the words of the members of the groups supporting the Government, who are full of good intentions, but since they are in the Government they begin to implement it. Start applying it, because a year ago we approved a motion that has not been applied, four months ago we approved another motion to attend to mental health in the Covid and absolutely nothing has been applied. Then, of course, apply it. If that's what we want. If we continue to insist precisely because we are full of good words, and what is needed is that the Government, in addition to good words, and come to take pictures with entities, apply and really provide resources with equity. There is discrimination, indeed, not because I say so. To discriminate is to treat one situation less favourably than another without objective justification. And, in fact, when families have to look for life to look for therapies and, above all, to co-opt them, they are discriminating against other groups who have access to treatments. No one would think of giving an antibiotic or a dose that has not been shown to be effective, and psychotherapeutic treatments are being given at much more spacious frequencies than they have been shown to be effective. We are all clear that if we break a leg we are going to put a plaster and we are going to do a rehabilitation, but there are many families that, as the groups have commented, end up in the private because the public health system does not care for them. And that is discrimination, because, why should people who have first-person mental health experiences and their families end up in private if they can afford it, and, if not, receive treatment at ineffective doses? So I insist on thanking the amendments for their content, but I believe that much further progress is still needed in ensuring that the rights of people with mental health experiences are effective. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.133.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As I understand it has already been warned, the point I was planning to do now will be done at the first hour of late, point 23. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.134.0	Well, deputies, deputies, let's resume the session... [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into primary care]] [[302-00263/12]] ...with the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on primary care, motion presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To defend her, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.135.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the department let us know that the councillor could not attend, so we apologize, because you have to cover leaks. It's a couple of weeks ago we're discussing in relation to primary care. And with the inquiry we started with an idea, which I think is quite shared, and it is that we arrived at the beginning of this year, before the pandemic, with a fairly weakened primary care. We also found the inability to recover and strengthen primary care after six years of continuous economic growth, in which something must be seen that only the Generality was able to make assumptions during two exercises. There were four exercises of this recovery without any presupposition, and this, without any doubt, is a weak starting situation, it is a delicate starting situation. All of this, up the Covid pandemic. Above the health crisis, and to give just one example, we knew that only during this last month of October the primary care had received two million more visits than it had received in October of last year. And, at the same time, taking into account that the ordinary primary care activity had been reduced, also in relation to the October of last year. And, therefore, all this is actually generated by the pandemic. Undoubtedly, since the beginning of the pandemic, the pressure that has been exerted on the caregiver has fallen on the professionals. And, therefore, it is necessary to manifest that it is already necessary, it is essential to strengthen primary care, but to do so with two visions. A reform and a structural reinforcement, which ensures the resolution capacity of the primary care, but also a short-term reinforcement, a point-by-point reinforcement, so that all the additional tasks that have been entrusted to the primary care resulting from this pandemic can be exercised with the maximum possible effectiveness. Remember-ho: from attendance to school centers, residences, rehearsals, ratrajos, Covid managers, etc., right? And before this scener, the government is putting in a plan of reinforcement and transformation, which I brought in, because it's a full-fledged one. [[the orator shows the chamber a full]] ; the primary care reinforcement and transformation plan is a full, which we consider to be – not because it is only a full, but for the same content – insufficient; it is absolutely insufficient. And from this point of view, we plant it in the plenary, which we consider to be insufficient. And it serves, like a lot, to give out to the situation we're living in right now, but not to strengthen primary care. And that's why we're asking the government for a repositioning of this plan of reinforcement and transformation of primary care. To give just one example: this plan envisages the contracting, in three years, of 3,800 professionals, which is very good, we can all be very satisfied, "come forward, do this, but do not address what is the real problem. And the real problem is that, or else, we have to make primary care attractive to professionals. Because, if not, the professionals do not want to go to primary care, especially the doctors; they prefer to go to hospitals, they prefer to go to other communities or they prefer to go to foreign countries. And who says doctors, says also, for example, infirmary, right? And, therefore, the first thing that needs to be done is to create favourable conditions, create positive conditions for health professionals to develop their professional career in the framework of primary care. And, therefore, we continue to recover – in words that have just been expressed – from retaining talent, yes; but also, that we continue to recover that talent that has left Catalonia and left primary care during these years, has left Spain, because I return to primary care. Needless to make primary care more resolute. We say that more than half of the emergencies in hospitals could be perfectly treated in primary care centres. The use of telematic tools, which seems necessary, appropriate, positive. Not exclusively, not for everyone, but in certain areas. And then, two considerations. A first [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] - and I'll be done right away, huh? – the proof of the pressure is that it is committed to the secondary school students who are doing Covid PCR cars, and we say: « Listen'm, if there are already discussions about whether they can do it or not, we do not charge them to the students who do it. Take him to the drugstores. We don't think there's any problem. And, finally, we put all the resources in for the benefit of public salvation, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.136.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.137.0	...the public toilets, but also the private toilets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.138.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and in defence of the papers presented, the honourable Member Assumpta Escarp has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.139.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, president, deputies, deputies. This morning, when we see the motion on mental salvation, we give it a little, don't we? Everything we've been talking about... And so as I did a rest – and I liked to do it, but in the end I didn't – to all the initiatives that we have presented in this plenary and in committee around primary, pre- and post-Covid, huh? ... I also somehow liked it or I'd like to do it – and I think we're still in time to do it – a certain rest from the national strategy on primary, which Councillor Comín had presented, up to this reinforcement and transformation plan of everything that was produced and that, in reality, did not complement itself. Because the resolutions of this House have not been completed, neither have these plans that have been set in motion; nor do we have clear the plan of reinforcement and transformation, that of a full, that says the deputy Santi Rodríguez. But, in fact, they don't tell us which calendars, which contributions, or how it was done. On this subject... And, if we're talking about primary care, it's also based on the agreement that was made with the government, with the commons, on the subject of assumptions, it was also there. Therefore, there are many things and few things we know. And few realities we know which is the change or which strengthens or which action is taking primary care. We know, for example, that from what is proposed for the reinforcement and transformation plan, therefore, it plays 0.68 metge per EAP. Or 0.58 nurse, which somehow gives us an image of what's there. I'd like to, somehow, be able to make this balance. And I tell them, because, if not, the feeling of opacity, incompleteness and confusion around primary care is very present. The deputy Santi Rodríguez said when he presents this young man – a long man, who I think practically shares all the points; we will only abstain from one, and now I will make a comment – who, somehow, has been one of the care workers who has suffered the most from the retailing, lost more than a thousand professionals, and who, in the years of goodness, has not reversed the retailing, especially in the primary care. Therefore, it is impossible – and I am taking one of his last words – when we are dedicating primary attention. But it is that, of all the MIRs that end their residence, every year, in primary care, in family and community care, less than 50_per_cent is left in public centres and in the centres here. Or else, people don't want to pay attention to primary school. It's too late for me to take over the MIR, not tell them what's there. And more, when we give them: it would be very good if they joined the rural area, taking into account that the community of the cost pays a thousand euros more per month to attend rural consultants and to do, too, primary medicine. It's been a long time since the professionals asked us to actually attend to primary care. It's been a long time since the Covid fell in this state and, therefore, it has made the situation much worse for them. He said before, these two million more visits, but above all, that during the second wave that he has most rejected he was the primary attention. The first time the hospital pressure was very quick, huh? And, therefore, I believe that we will never thank them enough to make a wall of containment, to avoid col·lapse to emergencies, to serve chronicity, and, above all, to make managers in the follow-up of schools and residences. The young person sets up and finds out what the situation of the primary school is. Also note that the plan was born short, insufficient and we have very little information, nor any assessment capacity. It brings together a set of measures, which I believe will be approved, and finally, we will get back some approved measures repeatedly in this Parliament that are not complete. And, therefore, I think we're going to add a little bit to all the incompliments that are planted. I've told you, and above all there's a subject that I've always been very obsessed with, that it's these forty-eight hours because I'm giving you a doctor's hour, that I think I've approved it many times and there hasn't been... And you don't mean we deny telemedicine, do you? In other words, in this case, telemedicine has to be used to cover holes, it has to be a complementary tool. I told him that we would vote in favour of the entire House. We'll abstain at the last point. And we agree with the decision of the Government of the State to reduce the VAT on masks and fix a price from what is the pharmacy agency, and therefore with a fixed price. We do not share it with gloves, which, in fact, the WHO does not recommend in absolute terms its use, nor the hydroalcoholic gels. In any case, the motion's layout is to put it on the interterritorial board, but only in this sense will we abstain at this point in the motion. The rest will be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Marta Ribas' deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.141.0	Good afternoon. If anything has manifested this pandemic, it is that the neoliberally logical detail of girls to emerge from the previous economic and financial crisis had affected – and hardly – our system of salvation, and especially primary care. Today, with this motion from the People's Party, we propose that Parliament, among others, see that when it began to recover the economy, it did not take advantage of it to reverse those details. We're in full agreement. But they are curiously oblivious that the details were approved and urged by you. Courts for you, from the Government of the State, and approvals for you on the first premises of the first Government of Mr.Artur Mas and of the Councillor Boi Ruiz bearing Greeting, which were approved and agreed with the People's Party. And that it was those first assumptions of the Arthur government but the ones that made the wreckage, which was not detailed, to the primary attention. And it started here, especially with political will. It started here, because hurting the primary care is the public system where it hurts the most. And it made it easier for those who have an interest in negotiating with our salvation, so much through mutual means, because the people distrust the system in the resolution of the day by day, right? , of the problems of day-to-day salvation, which is what solves you the primary, and it is a mutual, as converting the public system into a more hospital-centric system, more centered in hospitals. Therefore, more medicalized, and therefore also more dependent on specialized services that are more easily outsourced than primary care. He gave it to me. Mr. Boi Ruiz knew what he was doing, he knew why he was doing it. He gave it to me. That's what happened to our health care system the past few years. But it has those origins. Certain assumptions, with a derailed primary attention, approved with the People's Party. We do have memory, and because we have memory, because it's important to have memory to learn and not repeat mistakes, we've made them a single thought in this sense. To incorporate, also, this observation to the motion of the Parliament of Catalonia. They didn't want to accept it. Well, let's leave it here, but reality is reality. The details affected the quality of our health system and the primary attention details came from the assumptions that were agreed between Convergence and Union and the People's Party. And especially they affected primary care, which is where 80_per_cent of the population is reached and which is a good part of medical care needs. In an efficient health system, basically, the core should be primary care. Not a door, but the center of the system. Scientific evidence, robust evidence, is that health systems that rotate over primary care as central care are more effective, achieve better health outcomes at a lower cost. Therefore, they are more effective. And also more equitably, because, more importantly, it's better and better to get to the whole territory with the same conditions. That is why our political space defends a system of primarist base, now, to face the pandemic, and always: in the moments when some of them were retailing, in the moments when we have claimed that it is reverse in the retailing and now, that more than ever, also, a primary attention, and the pandemic weekend we will continue to do so. But, above all, because it is the guarantee that we have a system centered on people, on the patient, on his circumstances, on his health and not on the disease, and what we want is a system centered on salvation. This, obviously, cannot be done with saturated consultations, cremated professionals, insufficient supplies, precarious conditions or loss, as is happening now, the reference of a medical team of headmasters, because longitudinality is a fundamental and essential feature of primary care. There's a lot to do. We will approve almost all of the proposals of this People's Party movement, but they are much longer, because the problem is more of a problem, not just of this moment. And as for the problem at this time, we are also calling for transparency on what reinforcements have been made and what not in the primary attention. We also went to the government to ask for alternatives to the car test plan for secondary school students with supervision of teaching staff. And I also explain to them and the announcements that we will abstain at the end of the day. It was done an elimination of VAT until the end of July for the whole social and health system of all these products that you claim. They know that the proposal to reduce VAT for all these products in a definitive way is not allowed for European Community legislation on VAT. Once there was approval by the European Union to make this download, it was done in the case of masks, which is also being done to other European countries. So, we'll abstain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.142.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.143.0	...on this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.144.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.145.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members, Members, I begin by thanking Deputy Rodriguez that he has accepted any of the papers, and also the transactions we have made. In fact, we started this legislature with Councilwoman Vergés talking about the importance of primary care and the import of professionals, and today practically we won't approve anything that we haven't said the last few months, and that we've been repeating. So, and that, moreover, they are aligned with many of the actions that the Government is already doing; some of them should still be more equipped, with more staff, with more resources, than not all of them are available. Therefore, in this sense, we will give support to most points. I start with those who may be playing more or making me more dismayed, and Congresswoman Ribas reminded me of who gave support to those assumptions that cut public health and left it to the bone. So, when you find that you haven't recovered the levels of reversal, I understand that you're making my fault, you're making the mistake, and you're making the policies of the People's Party and the Catalan right of all these years, where both the Spanish governments and the Catalan governments have sunk public health at levels that for a lot of years we've been trying to pay, so we haven't reached the levels that would be good enough to face a health crisis like we have with a strong public health system like we needed. Therefore, in this sense, I buy you the message that you are making to your policies and I celebrate that from then on we can work with a pact, with an alliance to strengthen the public health system, and that we translate the social consensus that there is in this sense, and that we have not spoken many times, in political consensus. Three concrete points of some of the motions. In this reversal of Salut we had in the last approved assumptions, which is already the highest second of history, practically 10_million and which, even so, is pre-Covid, and therefore it will take more resources and it will take these changes, which are facing structural things, the pandemic has accelerated them and makes them still more needed. The second, on the strength course of primary care: 300_million euros, 44 for this same year, 120 for the year that it goes and 133 for 2022, to face four great areas: the first, the Covid, which is obvious, we cannot keep it on the margin with everything that is going on and with the great work that the primary care does with everything that the pandemic entails, but also for public salvation, for chronicity, for residential and for the technical and administrative environment, because it is obvious that the exponential growth that they have made with My Health, to put an example, therefore, is very great. And it seems to me especially important the chronicity part, because we are talking a lot about mortality and the comparison of Covid mortality data between different countries, but if we don't do those measures that we're making we're still talking about associated mortality for many years, and not directly to Covid, it's just about all the pathology that's adding to it. And the third major area is the area of professionals, and that's not just what 84_million euros have been announced to strengthen it, more than two_ thousand contracts, but many of them have already been incorporated into this system; not just nurses and midwives, who are essential, just Covid managers and all the redefinition of the roles we need. And the PSC deputy said that when you split up, that means 0.58 per nurse for EAP. Yes, Mrs. Escarp, and what do you prefer? Because perhaps you in the metropolitan area 0.58 nurses sounds like nothing, but there are many municipalities – and I look at the deputy of the Pyrenees – that 0.58 nurses is much more than zero nurses, and therefore allows him to keep an eye on the chronicity that is essential. So, we end up seeing a lot of things that we already do, that the PP and the PSOE agree to abstain in the only point that refers to the State doing the work and in all the rest we do demand. So maybe now that we have the re-opening plan, that some of us have to start, that we also help to do all this teaching because the primary attention, although it doesn't come so far on the news, will be the first one to notice all this attention, and that, besides, we do it by giving all the explanations and appearing here in Parliament every time. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , and not – and with this I finish, President – as Minister Illa has done today again, missing Parliament, not announcing that he will not come to the committee of residences, and therefore stop copying the PP by taking part in the Council of State and doing the favor of coming...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.146.0	Congresswoman, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.147.0	...and donating explanations. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.148.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr Josep Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.149.0	Thank you, President. This debate begins well, because at the first point it talks about the importance of primary care in the health care system, which is obvious. From this first point there are a few more types of declared, very generic– about resources, about the crisis of the Covid-19, a grace to the efforts of the health professionals–, and a finding: that the plan of reinforcement and transformation of the primary care that the department has initiated, according to you, is insufficient. And then we have the proposed part of the motion, but what we find is little concreteness about primary care and more generic things, and, in change, a sequence of headlines that could be pressurized, and that is transferred, with a political opposition varnish, obviously, in this paper, to the motion. This young man is left in this, in a generic list that he could have done any chatter that the first one they say is 'I'm not an epidemiologist, but... We've made transactions in a few points, which we appreciate, because they make these points more realistic, more real, and they've accepted a theme, precisely, in the point that was more concrete, which is the emergency response. We have found more precision in the specific motion on primary care and go further, as it carries this title. For example, in the question of the needs of professionals, there could have been better work here. There could have been various ways of doing this, for example, as Mr Lluís Guinó put it yesterday, who explained to us that he asked a doctor and a nurse of primary care to list all the jobs they were doing and the situations they were in, and talked to them so much about those who are conjunctural in the pandemic as some of the structural ones that could be addressed for the better and stronger part of the primary – many of them, of course, planted in the specific plenary. And if that's not what Congressman Guinó did, he could have gone to the 30+ Expert Report Measures to strengthen the health system, which they presented to the Health Commission the same ones they did, and then there might have been important questions that affect the professionals. Not to mention some: providing primary care teams with autonomy in managing human and economic resources and promoting participatory organizational models for professionals; coordinating primary care and other health and social resources, enhancing the role of family and community infirmary; implementing throughout the health system the continuous professional development as a social guarantee element of professional competence; matching professional endowments to European standards in order to respond to the lack of professionals in certain areas and introduce new professional roles, or giving professionals the ability to manage and organise their own work respond to criteria of professional and ethical responsibility, fairness and sustainability. It is clear to us, in this sense, that taking care of professionals is taking care of users. But, said that, I want to end up with a question that is truncated, that it's instrumental, and that opposition parties can't make it look like it doesn't exist. It is not possible for the entire legislature to be asking for more doctors, more nurses, more health personnel of all ages, more hospitals, more CAPs, more good salaries, more investments in medical technology or management technology, more than anything else without really addressing this issue, which is the resources. Or, in other words, it is not possible to demand a system of state salvation and treat Catalonia as a misguided and poorly financed autonomy. I have heard here groups more than once that we have to be able to compare ourselves with systems of salvation of equivalent European countries: Denmark, Holland... Totally agree– totally agree. That's why we want Catalonia to be a state, because managing all the resources that Catalonia generates, we can, we can, demand all this. I know they're not going to be independent, but they know that it's the most viable way to manage all the resources, but it's that they're dedicated to systematically hoarding Catalonia's chronic fiscal deficit. It is not only that they demand that in the assumptions of the State as at least Catalonia is treated for the economic or demography that it has, nor that insufficient investments are executed, nor that the State pays what it owes to what it is buying in the State. There is no laying of foundations on the system of salvation if this question is not addressed. That is why we will continue in our independence. And the disqualification didn't tell us to say that with independence, everything would be arranged in a magical way. Magical, nothing, but it would be in a fair way, not like now. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr David Mejía. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.151.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, first of all, I don't want to start my intervention without thanking again all health workers for the effort, patience and dedication they are showing to the extent of this pandemic that we are living. Catalonia's health care system, and especially primary care, has affected the largest retail outlets in all of Spain's autonomous communities in terms of investment and personnel – and it is true, it dates back to the time of Mr. But and Mr. Boi Ruiz. Financed worse communities than ours, which is not, have reversed much better the detail, Mr Riera, not to compare with Denmark, but with the other autonomous communities. And by way of example, we can say that we are the only community that has not yet returned all the external payments to the public officials, among them also health workers. With these conditions of chronic inversion precariousness and ill-treatment of the staff we arrived at the pandemic. I think that as public representatives we have to ask forgiveness, all folds, since it seems that our rulers in Catalonia have not after all been far from all these months that the Covid gave us a little air. Still, we cannot sufficiently appreciate the delivery of all of them, all of the health professionals, as well as having some bad security conditions, for example, with the lack of PPE in their day-to-day lives, and who have been at the edge of the dog. And when the staff is still recovering from the attention and effort of the first wave, we find ourselves already in this second and the primary is collapsing again. As the government fills its mouth saying that the primary is its priority and that they work on it, the reality is that the primary reinforcement plan is a full one, as Mr. Rodriguez said. The reality is that the people are coming to the streets to be aware, that the phones are collapsing and answering questions of salvation that would require face-to-face attention. And actions like analytics or questions of chronicity, among others, that were left in a cove on the first wave, are still tangled. Or local consultants, such as Santa Coloma de Cervello or Sant Climent de Llobregat, among others. We also find ourselves with primary care centers with retaliated services, such as pediatrics at the Hospital of Llobregat. And to finish cremating the health professionals, the Health Instruction 7/2020 determines that by force majeure the working hours and rest periods may be suspended. The department and the councillor assume that they are working, but the reality is that there was a wave of the MIR, and that the councillor did not receive them until seven days after the wave's beginning, and when they were protesting here before the Parliament. The reality is that there is an indefinite wave of concerted health transportation, as the councilwoman has incomplete the promises made the past year. A monographic plenary was held a few weeks ago, on Ciutadans' proposal, to talk about the health situation, and we saw how a series of proposals, a series of proposals, were approved by the joint parliamentary groups. But what do we see? That the government does not implement these proposals, even though its groups have voted in favour of them. And an example of this is the use of all health workers to use their resources to cope with this pandemic. It was approved to involve the pharmacies in order to take advantage of their capillary status in the territory. We agreed, precisely, to relieve the pressure of primary care. We still don't have any news of respect, we don't know what the council will do about it. We don't understand – honestly, we don't understand – how it's safe to think that Covid's car plans are made among high school students and that he doesn't want to use a health area like community pharmacies, and that he can get to the people's side. They don't seem to believe in their health professionals. In short, this government does not manage correctly, nor does it fulfill its promises, nor does it reverse the details; nor does it fulfil the mandates of this Parliament. In accounts of assuming responsibilities, do not assume them. You should do self-criticism, self-criticism, and I didn't feel it here. And pose once and for all the real priorities of the citizens in their day-to-day lives. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Mr Vidal Aragonese has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.153.0	Bona tarda, president, to speak from the escó. Mirin, since we have a presence in this Parliament, we have carried out three very essential questions at the time of talking about Catalan sanitation. The first and most fundamental: he managed it. And, therefore, essential managed public cent_per_cent, just as it provided. And, look, giving it to a multinational – I was going to say Spanish, but I think that multinationals don't have a country – is obviously the clearest antagonism that we may have national independence and health independence – we want to remind them of. According to the phone book question: financing. And financing, obviously, goes through a reality that is already managed directly or indirectly – we are in direct –, there is the possibility that the workers have good conditions and, for another band, that the servants, the health care workers, can donate at the time they are needed, and, therefore, end up with these lists of hope that what it means is to deny the right to healthcare. And the third question that we always raise: the primary as an essential element in order to be able to give a close, next answer, and sometimes also escape from the hospital center, which, curiously, is more than just the private management of Catalan sanitation. And, about that, we want to remember one thing, because today there's been a lot of talk about the details of the last few years. So, look, we're talking about the details of the past few years, but we're also making another comparison. There were 200,000 fewer people in this country who had health care. Pressupost of 2010 and pressupost of 2020, ICS, public management: it is lower than that of 2020 to which we have held 2010. And, therefore, it is very good that we are all looking for a way to explain why this is not a good thing, but we also need to look at a reflection of what is the reality of our primary attention. And, therefore, go look for solutions where we find them, which is in nearby sanitation and not through privatization or hospital loading processes, even though they are from the public sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, Congressman Rodriguez has a new turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.155.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Ribas, it will be that I myself have not recognized on many occasions that, indeed, in 2011 and 2012, with our abstention, we made possible some assumptions of the Generality that contained details to the sanitation and details in many other aspects. Do you want us to keep talking about why those flaps were produced? So, look, I'll remember, I'll give you two figures: because there was a tripartite 2.0 of which you were a part in the government that the year 2010 ceased to be a deficit – a deficit – all a assumption of the Department of Health, more than 8,000_million euros of deficit only in the year 2010. And debts until the year 2108. I'm saying, debts until the year 2108. That's why there was someone who had to stay and look to support the health system – support the health system. You don't know if you've heard this morning when the vice president was told by this Faristol: "Spent, spent, spent. And I thought, "What will he do to ask that there be no detail? Because what's spent, what's spent, what's spent now, tomorrow will have to pay, pay and pay. Well, it looks like we might prefer not to pay our debts. There you go! On the issues, we have come to three transactions and to the acceptance of an issue with Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left. Thanks to the professionals, professional development, the forty-eight hours of the visit, which as it is not complete, not now, before the pandemic, we will ask again. And we didn't accept the reviews in relation to the mask VAT, because some of them were asking to remove the masks, others were asking to remove the gloves and the gels. Well, the masks have not been completely covered either, but only the surgical ones; there have not been the FFP2, which are the most effective. Therefore, we are in favour of maintaining demand [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that the three elements lower VAT. I'm done. Mr. Riera, I have no doubt that you know more than we do, but ask them one thing: do not explain it to us, because you are government, apply it. But it's his years ago that they're in the government. It's not a tax deficit problem, it's a competition deficit problem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.156.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.157.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.158.0	Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into corruption in the Administration of the Generality]] [[302-00261/12]] After the debate, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into corruption in the General Administration. And it is presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, by Mr Ignacio Martín. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.159.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We bring here this motion following last week's inquiry, well, from the previous plenary session, about corruption, about what we have known, the information we have known, the audios, the conversations we have known about the Voloh case. It is a rather unique case, the Voloh case, for the investigation of various leaders of the separatist parties, including Mr Xavier Vendrell, of Esquerra Republicana, Mr David Madí, of Convergence, and also Mr Oriol Soler. It is singular because this kind of conversation..., which, by the way, contrary to what Mrs. Budó said, are not part of a secret summary, but quite the contrary, are conversations that we have met through the media, like others, by the way, and which, however, you want to silence. It is quite symptomatic, because in this Parliament we have had commissions of inquiry, for example, about the phone calls or the calls that were known to Mr Daniel de Alfonso and Minister Fernández Díaz talking about, well, a number of things that, in fact, were nauseating conversations, so nauseating, so much or more; in any case, absolutely unacceptable between a person who was the director of the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia and a minister. And in this case we are talking about talks of leaders of the two governing parties, of the Republican Left and Convergence, which, moreover, point out, also point to the responsibility of several of the advisers, of the advisers of this government. That is why it is so important for us to present this motion, precisely for Parliament to commit itself to the fight against corruption. I remember..., in the warmth of the knowledge of these conversations between Mr Vendrell and Mr Madí and Mr Soler and various leaders of the separatist parties, I recalled, we recalled, several members of our group, the episode that took place in this Parliament, one of the episodes, I would say, more sleek than we have seen in this chamber, which was when Mr Maragall told Mr Mas in full debate about the Statute of autonomy, about the reform of the Statute..., he said to him: « Gentlemen of Convergence, you have a problem called 3%, which is called 3%. Well, that day Mr. Mas rose up angry and told Mr. Maragall to withdraw those words, because, if not, he would stop supporting Mr. Maragall and his parliamentary or governing partners, in this case Esquerra Republicana, in the reform of the Statute. That is the way separatist parties function. Unfortunately, in Catalonia it is the only autonomous community that has not alternated in the successive governments of the Generalitat; always nationalism, always separatism has had an absolutely decisive impact on the governments of the Generalitat. And as Lord Acton said: power tends to corrupt and absolute power absolutely corrupts. And that's exactly what happened in Catalonia with separatist governments. Here the omertà is the norm, precisely because you have been governing the Generalitat continuously for forty years. I spoke to you before the huge difference between what you have every week..., because every time we have a plenary in this Parliament one of the members of the separatist bench recalls Mr De Alfonso's sentences on Catalan health, an unacceptable phrase, by the way, and that, moreover, it is usually attributed apocryphally to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz. But it is curious that, instead, about Voloh you do not want to talk, and what is said in the conversations, in Voloh's audios is absolutely intolerable, absolutely immoral. Things Mr Vendrell says about how this government is managing the pandemic and the separatist parties are unacceptable. Among other things, how residences are being managed. By the way, there are especially bloody comments about what Mr Vendrell says. Does the way you refer to Colombians, for example, seem normal to you? Indeed, may he say, Mr Vendrell, in an absolutely mafia attitude, that those who are trying to question the contract that the Generalitat assigned to him, fraudulently awarded to Mr Vendrell, those who try to question him, he will do what he is going to do is..., I will not reproduce his words, because they are short, but if they bother him too much he will have to call a Colombian to give them two cakes, to say the least. Do you think these are ways to talk about the Colombian collective? Do you believe that this supremeist, racist, absolutely unacceptable way is tolerable in a person who has responsibilities in one of the governing parties? Well, I tell you that the Voloh talks, which you want to silence, because here in Catalonia reigns what was called Ferdinand Mount "the asymmetry of tolerance..., you intend to load the inks on certain issues, but you do not want to talk at all about their corruption, about the corruption of the omertà that you have imposed in Catalonia. And precisely because of this, Catalonia needs once and for all an alternation of power in the Government of the Generalitat, if not, the omertà will continue to prevail and nationalism will continue to camp for its respect. Thank you, Members. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.160.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.161.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, counselor, there's a report about corruption in Catalonia that would be something like this: there was a time, a long time ago, a Catalonia where there were many corrupts, they all disappeared and, you see here a cat, you see here a dog, this account has gone. Because of everything that happened not so many years ago at our house, everything that the generality hasn't clarified, there's nothing. And if you explain a story like that to a little boy or a big boy with a minimum of curiosity, then you always come after the business questions: and what happened after that? And what's going on with the characters? And how did life go with them? And the truth is, nothing happened after that. After everyone hung up, everyone refounded it. Caresses, more or less, some are the same and some are not, but there has never been an audit of what happened in this country. There have never been any explanations from any political party about what happened in this country and what we've been knowing is what went on publishing in court. And the problem with corruption is that corruption doesn't work like an account that you explain to a six-year-old child, because corruption doesn't explain why there are very bad people doing things that they can't do and when they attack them, so the problem is over. Corruption is structural and has to do with the public-private relationships that have developed in this country over the last forty years. And I think this is where we need to put the magnifying glass. I'll do it on a very recent case, and I think it's very central, on the situation we're living in Catalonia: Palau case. The judgement of the Palau case is very clear: there is a company that is said to be Ferrovial that paid 6,6_million euros to a party that is said to be Convergence and Union to change that you assigned to public services and public works in this country. The sentence came out of the generation of 2018. The same year 2018 the Government of the Generality handed him over to Ferrovial on 061, the medical emergence phone of this country; the same year a sentence came out that showed that he had bought public contests at the governing party of this country. The same 2018, the CatSalut. The contract was renewed to CatSalut. And a few months ago, he was given the Covid-19 tracking system in this country. And no one here has explained anything. No one has come out to say why a Republican Esquerra councillor, the Salut councillor, has given the public tracking contract to a company that comes out of the Palau case as a company that pays commissions to a government party to award you public services. And there's no re, in this country. And today we have to say that the phone number of health emergencies that thousands of citizens have called in this country's Pandemic Friend is not free because it is in the hands of a private company that has been sentenced to finance government parties in this country. And no one has explained anything to us about this public contest. And I think it's obvious that public explanations about corruption and public-private relations are lacking in this country. Second question from the young man. The leaks of summary secrets and the leaks about police investigations. We are opposed to public debate on investigations that are leaking, for various reasons. I will sum them up in three: because they violate the right to defence, they violate the right to summary secrecy and they obviously violate the right to presumption of innocence. We've all seen recent cases where between what leaked from one side, and we've made public debate, and what ended up being demonstrated in your courthouse, there were miles. And that brings us to a second question for which we don't get comfortable and don't like to discuss illegal filtering. And that's why they place us all in an illegitimate position, which is that they force us all to discuss things that we won't know if we end up giving up here six months, about whether such a person was making explosives, about himself or herself, about which one. And we find that this puts us all in a shameful position. And, therefore, the first thing we should ask is that all parties to judicial proceedings are obliged to defend and preserve the secrecy of summary and of investigations that are confidential. And that's obvious. For another band, we're aware they've leaked. And we are aware that in these conversations it is said things that attack the institutional dignity of the Government of the Government of Catalonia and of the public institutions of this country. And, therefore, we here demand two things. The first is the requirement that I think we need to do to all governments so that they are transparent, because at a time when there is a media battle and leaks there are ways to compare and get white over black over what they plan about our country's institutions. And second, you have to see with all the cycle of corruption that we've lived in this country. It is that we ask and demand an audit of all public services privatized and outsourced in this country. It is not just because it can be the result of corruption, but because we believe that it is obvious that this country deserves to know whether the privatization and outsourcing of public services in this country is in general interest or not, and we believe that it is a task that is to be done and that would enable us to close the darkest stage of this country in terms of institutionalised corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.162.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.163.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, mirins, my parliamentary group is not in favour of interfering in court proceedings, is it? The state of law has the adjutant and sufficient mechanisms – always better – to pursue those irregular or illegal conducts. Justice has the mechanisms – you have also guaranteed, for sure, for the persons investigated – to spare conduits and resolve and condemn, if that is the case, or to absolve these persons or conduits that can produce irregular or illegal character. We want to express, because it seemed to us..., that is, we would not agree with this statement so restrictive that it says the motion, because it seems that it already wants to cast the shadow of doubt over the joint public and private sector of this country, and that's not it, is it? I believe that the Public Administration, which is the Government of the Generality, is the Assembly, so let's just say, most of the officials and most of the public officials and public officials, so they don't get into this type of games, trypijocs. Now, you said that, and you saw the last known information – certainly scandalous, huh? And it is true, through a leak that has occurred, also denouncing, but what we have listened to and which has listened to the whole country, certainly scandalous, from our point of view... It seems that some and some do not learn, they continue to install in the drift – if they allow me, because everyone will understand it – of 3_per_cent. I think that in some political formation school of some political formation there was a seminar that was called 3_per_cent, huh? , because it seems that we are still installed in this..., or some are installed in this position. Rejuvenate suspicions of how they intend to manage contracts in the Catalan Government, of how they want to interfere in urban processes, of how they seem to seek benefits at the expense of the suffering of many people, of many people, of many collectors in the pandemic that we are living. We have listened, I believe – I repeat: the whole country has listened to it – how it is intended to interfere, as it is intended to control, even more, the Catalan public communication media, or, as a minimum, to remove 'economic income, from the Catalan public communication media, eh? Scandals that we know – and it has nothing to do with the leaks that have happened, here we have known it through the Transparency channel of the Government of Catalonia – as an entity that organized a website to congratulate President Pujol..., it is to say, when I congratulate someone on their anniversary I take the phone, the expense, trick or send them a WhatsApp. Here he set up a website to congratulate President Pujol, and it turns out that he was given a grant of fifty and a thousand euros. Somebody's gonna have to clarify these practices, right? It's things my parliamentary group doesn't understand, right? For conclosure. They keep thinking, some and some, that the country is theirs, and escorts, deputies and deputies, the country is not theirs, it is of all and of all the citizens of this country, even though some have not finished believing; it is of all and of all. TV3 is not the private channel of production head or tertulian head, to see if we know. We won't go into a sequence, I repeat, from toilets to those – and neither will we, eh? – that they have the constitutional and statutory right and right to control, to investigate irregular conducts to administrations. We haven't done it any other time, we won't do it now. I am referring to the courts of justice, indeed, to the people who must also investigate all the security bodies that act as the judicial police in various cases. Because, deputies and deputies, no one – no one – is at the margin of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.165.0	Thank you, President. Well, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group presents us with a motion, a parliamentary proposal with which the political process of social and national liberation is closely related to corruption, and therefore the Volhov operation is used to criminalize the independence movement. We – I don't think anyone can doubt it, of what you are today in this hemicicle and the person who knows our organization – have had a firm commitment to the fight against corruption, but we will also always stand against the use of the fight against corruption party. In fact, the person responsible for this operation, such a Tacitus, does not give us any type of confidence that what you do does, precisely, to fight corruption in our country. Only the name of this operation is already an absolute shame. In fact, our parliamentary group, with four Members, we have been present to the whole investigation of the case of 3_per_cent as a popular accusation, and we have done so alone, without the attendance of any other parliamentary groups. We have also been present at the trial of the reliefs of Caixa Catalunya, we have uncovered cases of corruption like Innova, Mercuri, or we are now working also in a lawsuit in the Hard Rock procedure, and, therefore, it should be said that, although it is intended to explain that the independence process is related to corruption, I think that they did not achieve this objective with a proposal of the characteristics they present today. In fact, these diligences, the diligences of the Volhov case, begin, precisely, with a complaint made by our people to the Barcelona City Council. Now, therefore, we want to condemn the political use that is being made and the way in which we can put into question the political process of national and social liberation of our people relating corruption to independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr Santi Rodríguez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has now returned.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.167.0	Thank you, President. This is a case of corruption, but it is obviously closely linked to the case that we learned a few weeks ago and to the leaks that have occurred in relation to this case. Some other spokesman said: the state of law has tools to pursue criminal activities. And I think, in this sense, we have nothing to say. Following the procedures to be followed, it is therefore important that there be separation of powers, and that the powers that are conducting these investigations be independent of the political power, as is the case with the judiciary. Now, from what we've known, I think it's worth distinguishing two aspects. One is the investigations that can be subservient to opinion, and therefore, all the presumption of innocence, obviously, would just be missing. Now, as we already know each other, one can end up making the idea of where the crap goes. But then there are the facts – then there are the facts. More than fets, the words. And I think they're unequivocal. And the words are that there are, therefore, a series of people who claim to use their influence, their influence in political power. And it's true that they don't have a sense of political responsibility, because they don't have it. Someone even had it all, but he also lost it to misuse public tools, such as those paid for by the same Generality. The problem was that during a good time they were camping with complete freedom for the Palau of the Generality giving instructions and giving orders. And that's the real problem. I do not believe that the problem is so much that there are public services managed by private businesses, but there are people who, apart from having a sense of power, are empowered by those who do have power. And these are the ones who do wrong – these are the ones who do wrong. Therefore, we will give support to this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.169.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Look, this isn't an anti-corruption movement. It's not. It's a misrepresentation. Or, better said, it's playing the game at the State Keyboards. And I'm sorry to say it like that, but today Ciutans is a fool to make use of the state's keyposts, the Spanish injustice. What Ciutadans does is play, which is the missing piece in this gear between repression and the general cause because it works, because it works this general cause. It's this play. You have this function: to play the game – thank you very much – in the state's skyscrapers and in the brutal war. With this young man, what they're doing is anti-politics. They do everything they're reporting. They take advantage of the state's keyposts, they take advantage of the brutal war, instead of having exemplary behavior like political and public leaders that we are. They give for good the constructions of the filtrations, even those that contain personal questions. They also call for the failure of a government, in this young man, to give in fact all the criminal constructions that appear to them without even respecting the presumption of innocence. And, in addition, they do the same practice as the few democratic rules – to say the least – that they do is attack and pursue political opposition. That's what you do to this young man. But this is not a motion against corruption or that will eliminate political corruption. So, from the start, quite a shame ago, this proposal. In fact, it's a shame, not to mention, that they can be as irresponsible as they are to play the State Keyboards instead of strengthening the right state and the political and democratic channels. And we remember, and we'll remember the times you need. Operation Volhov is a new mountain of Civil Guard endorsed for Spanish justice, a new operation led by Lieutenant Colonel Baena – otherwise known as Tacitus –, the inventor of all the farce of the process, the inventor, among others, of the 20-S sedition, which is behind the cause against the dome of the Mossos d'Esquadra – certainly, absolved – which is behind the cause against the Tamara Carrasco – certainly, absolved. Operation Volhov is the Civil Guard doing politics. And here's Ciutadans to play the game. And, by the way, the PSC is also playing them, because we've been listening today to the deputy also playing this brutal war that exists in the State. Many thanks also to the Socialist Members. Operation Volhov is political espionage, and here it is again Citizens and those who also play the game to bleach it. The Volhov operation has no purpose in clarifying supposed economic crimes, but in dividing, scaring, fearing independence or discrediting the independence project, which is precisely governing the country and helping people in this situation and context of complexity. And, therefore, we reiterate that we will disassemble all and every one of these police mountains – all – with the compromise, as always, of being relentless against any suspected corruption. Now, we must also be resistant and persistent before any repressive action. And beyond the Volhov operation, what you do in this young man is also very dangerous, because at some points what they want is that everyone is quiet. They want to eliminate press freedom, freedom of expression, that there are no media, that there is no pluralism in the media, that they want censorship. And that, again, is very dangerous, because it just goes to dictatorial rules. And that's not about corruption, because if we want to talk about what can be done against corruption, we'll talk about the anti-corruption strategy that the government approved this July, we'll talk about the many initiatives, the deployment of ethical bans, we'll talk about the law of alarms that is going on in this Parliament – and, of course, that your group, Ciutadans, won't clarify whether we need to go fast or we need to go slow, they'll have contradictions; they'll tell us when they're coming back – or we can talk about the compromise also of the parliamentary group that you represent, from Esquerra Republicana, with eighty-nine years of history, without meaning a case of corruption in the past. The sound, the story story, the bidding plot of public contests said? El Molar case, a convicted registrar? Case Cazorla, of Almeria, misappropriation and documental falsification? Case Logronyo, do you condemn her to a Ciutadans ex-treasurer? Cas Soler, Murcia, fraud charge? And, besides, all the pacts with the People's Party, in Andalusia or Madrid, a party that, moreover, has been qualified, for the Punica case, of criminal organization. Man, those of us who come here today to teach each other and play the game to the State; man, they're the ones who might first have to look at yourselves. Therefore, we reject all false accusations, denounce police and judicial persecution and, of course, condemn all corruption and commit ourselves, as we have always done, to fighting it and working for a system of public integrity in our country. This is the Republican values that we preach and exercise. But this young man didn't get away with it, and that's why we're voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.170.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Aurora Madaula has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.171.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members, parliamentary workers, one more day we attend a new debate on corruption promoted by the Ciutadans Group ; we have not already made a few, of corruption debates, of motions. I myself, on July 2019, said to them: "Corruption is part of the 78's regime; that is also why some of us want to make up for this regime, to end it, and for this reason they clearly condemn and round off all types of corruption. But you, on the whole, face a debate on a big issue like corruption, make proposals, use a police and judicial operation that blows up the limits of privacy and individual rights in a democratic society, an investigation that spies on the free, to attack institutions and make populism with this young man, getting closer every time to the speeches of the extreme right. As the extreme right is the name of the police operation from which you extend the information to make this young man: Operation Volhov; it's the name of the Second World War battle where the Spanish Blue Division fascists fought alongside Hitler's tropes. It is unheard of that in a country that is said, which is boastful, of being a representative democracy, the Civil Guard has fascist names on its operations. But even more unheard of is that no unionist party, so-called democrats, and some of them are part of the Spanish government, has denounced this use of a fascist name for a police thing. That is why we cannot recognize, as you say in point 6, "the tireless work done against corruption by all the state's security forces and bodies, the oversight bodies, judges, prosecutors.... Because this is another example of politicization of justice, of violation of civil and political rights and, for what it seems, of the fundamental right to secrecy of communications. Because that's what corrupt institutions do, as I said on another occasion: we suffer from a corrupt, politicized justice system, tendencies and more like dictatorships than no democracies. We will not use external information fraudulently in a police investigation with a fascist name against free people, whatever their political colour is; as we have not done with the accusations about corruption that the Spanish vice president constantly reprimands on behalf of the extreme Spanish right, Mr. Pablo Iglesias. We will not be part of the denigration of politics and institutions that you have played since you were born. And, please, stop pursuing press freedom and media, a very common strategy of the extreme right. Stop accusing Catalan public media of being agents of government. The "body counts with professional authenticity and is subject to the control of the Parliament by means of the control committee. They serve the channels and make parliamentarianism. The movement denounced Catalonia "a structural, institutionalized, systemic political corruption capable of adopting forms and characteristics of organized crime. Do you know which party is considered, with a sentence, organized crime? The People's Party, with which you govern: govern in Madrid, govern in Andalusia and govern many other governments of which you are a party – the few governments of which you are a party – of which you have already been told that they have cases of corruption. The Catalan Government, in change, is part of the Transparent Government Network since 2015. A few weeks ago the Generality was accepted as a member of the international network of the Open Government Partnership. This fact places Catalonia at the first international level in the field of transparency, which you cannot say, for which you have commented, in your cases of corruption, as young as they are and as much corruption as they have. And when they talk about forty years of nationalist governments, they say democracy. When we talk about forty years of fascism, we call it "phasism and dictatorship; but it is forty years of democracy in Catalonia". And they want to talk about corruption? So we are talking about corruption: about the corrupt Spanish monarchy, about the corrupt monarch fled, to whom you refused to investigate in a commission of inquiry on March 2019, or when you voted against the monarchy's reprobation on October 2018, or voting against all motions to investigate and denounce the monarchy in the extraordinary plenary of August 2020. That does represent a scam for the people and a shame not to denounce it. If you have evidence of endemic corruption of the Catalan political system, vacate the prosecution and report it. While in Parliament, they take advantage of the debates, make proposals, build, negotiate and vote, and stop making extreme right-wing populism that only attacks our institutions. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To pronounce on the papers, has the word now again the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.173.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Madaula, although you are also very young, you have reminded me a lot of Mr Pujol when, despite being a tax evader, he came out before all the Catalan public opinion to say that now, from now on, the lessons of morality and ethics will be given by us, that is, the nationalists. Pujol himself, who turned out to be a confessed tax evader. He's reminded me a lot of him. I say this, above all, because there is one issue that I find particularly worrying, and I would really like to put it here to debate among all the Members of this House, because Mrs Madaula has accused all those who say nothing of what you call Operation « Volhov, because it is a Nazi name and I don't know how many more things, that you see fascists and Nazis in every corner, but I want to tell you one thing. Look, TV3, 12 of 11 of 2019: « Voloh's trial – which does not« Volhov – « thinks that Fandos and another one does chant at PDECAT, a game that you also have to play to you, Mrs Madaula. Clearly, the name of the operation is "Voloh," so what you can't do is get out here and say that we're all lying, because we're talking about "Voloh and no Volhov." The lie is his, not the Civil Guard's, nor the media that does anything about the Voloh operation, and a lot less of those parties that we give him things for his name. We have to call things by their name. I know you don't like to call things by their name, but you can't, on top of that, say that the others lie. Madam Madaula, that you speak of corruption of other parties, in this case, you cannot speak of that of ours, but, in any case, you refer to corruption or what justice says about the People's Party. I remind you that the Pujol family is considered by justice a criminal organization, and the Pujol family will also not tell me that it has nothing to do with you, because I believe you are the founders of your party. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.174.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.175.0	It's very uncomfortable to have her... she's been from the very first moment rebutting all my arguments. I think... a little respect for the orator that from this Faristol tries to make his argument. But well, I insist, I think it's very important about Operation Voloh. Make it clear. Look, it's you who's lying, not the others. They're assuaging it and that's it. What happens is that your lie is so systematic when you go up to this atrium, that I find it troubling that it gives you lessons from it. I think it is important for the Catalan public to know how you spend it in this respect. You lie practically more than you talk, and with the issue of corruption you have a real problem. Yeah, it's been forty years of nationalist governments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.176.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.177.0	...that nationalism has made corruption its raison d'être. Indeed. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.178.0	This debate is over. Let's move on to the next one. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the management of prison services during the situation generated by Covid-19]] [[302-00262/12]] That it is the Movement subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the management of the prison services during the situation generated by the Covid-19, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.179.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members of Parliament, we bring this motion following the question we asked 15 days ago to the Councillor about the management of prison services during the situation created by the Covid and with the will, let us say, of what was exposed, then we asked the Government about the management of prison centres, about what had been done by the same Government, the managements that had worked to make possible the deployment of prison centres, and we also saw how, on the part of the judiciary and the prosecution, there was no awareness of these issues. This is the will of this young man, that this House clearly manifests this little trace or this little will or this feeling of this candy from the judicial organs and the prosecution respect their relationship, that they have with the country or that they have with the pandemic situation. We believe that... and, in any case, the intention is that this first point of the motion finds that the prosecution and the TSJ are involved, we ask that they be involved in the management of the crisis. We believe that, as you all know, every one of us at the individual level, but also for each of the institutions in this country needs to put their grit in the solution as well. And it's obvious that there are some elements that we believe, on the other hand, let's say, of the judicial bodies, whether it's for the same prosecution or for the same TSJ, we believe that they can make decisions, that they can help, and, in any case, beyond the same situation or the same plans of the judicial bodies we believe that the prison environment is sure that they can take some measures that will also facilitate what is called for by the council. Therefore, work in the area of which they had proposed, with a follow-up of measures with a greater extension of those mechanisms of freedom. And we believe that what the judicial bodies, both from the prosecutor's office and the TSJ, have to do is to work with the Government of the Generality through the Council of Justice, in this case, to seek the greatest extension of these mechanisms of supervised freedom or alternative measures, which we believe will enable the people arrested to complete in the best way and to promote the conditions of salvation of the same prisons for those internal ones who continue to complete prison sentences and, above all, also for you to function. And, in any case, what it seems to us, that these areas that we have proposed..., it is important that these areas are maintained; they are already areas, per se, closed, and, therefore, that any mechanism that can favor this situation of prison spousalization is welcome. So, that's what we do. We believe that the mechanisms for applying this type of alternative penis have a double virtuality. First, the element of prison spending, as required by the same advice, and then we believe that there is a very important element that should not only be the object of this pandemic, but also in the future. We believe that penalties or criminal punishment must be accompanied by a follow-up of measures that allow maximum reintegration of prisoners into society. We believe that this is what is important in the compliment of any deprivation of liberty penalty, and this must be the objective, that these people can reintegrate. We have already pointed out in our question that the Catalan centres are not over-occupied, as can happen in other countries, but it seems to us that any measure is good. For what it does..., and let's say about the papers, we will accept all the papers that have been presented to us, both for Catalonia and for the commons, in the sense that we believe, and we have also made it clear in our presentation of the inquiry..., we understand that the prosecution's attitude towards political prisoners is an attitude that does not respond, let's say, to a normal judicial process, but that, in any case, it is clearly seeking revenge on these people, and, therefore, any attitude or anything else..., and we can see in the treatment of the third degrees of political prisoners, and we see, unfortunately, the coming week, when we are at the very beginning of the ruling, that the prosecution's principle of lawfulness is that it corresponds to the prosecution's principle of lawfulness. Therefore, it seemed interesting to us also to include this demand that we had made publicly; to incorporate it as well. And from, too, a follow-up of the commons, we believe that what makes the text richer, while some relate more to the setting up of the motion and the inquiry, but it seems to us that they enrich the text. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Yolanda López. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.181.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Esquerra has brought us a motion on prison matters in which we expected a deepening on the subject and a proposal to improve those things that must be improved in Catalonia in prison policy. The reality is that this motion came to be part of the framework of the Government and its parties of not wanting to accept failures and its shortcomings, and this is a problem, because it moves away from the responsibility that a government must have over existing realities. It is not very responsible, nor does it show a great deal of commitment to Catalans and Catalans, to present a motion with only two points in which there is no statement of any kind of commitment to action by the Government or the Department of Justice. We talk about that, from an expert visit in September 2018 in the prisons of Brians 2, Mas d'Enric, Wad-Ras and Ponent, several recurring complaints were collected by inmates. Among others, and to give just one example, the use of the sandwich technique was manifested, according to which the detainee is immobilized between two mattresses connected with a tape. Despite being ad hoc cases, the committee made recommendations in the form of a warning, including the request to the Generalitat de Catalunya to take letters on the matter. Also the same report, from the Council of Europe, opens a specific chapter for women prisoners, where it recommends that Catalan prisons take active measures to develop a gender approach to respond to the specific needs of women, differentiated from male prisoners. In addition, a number of human rights entities and the Greuges Syndic have also reported on the application of the prison solitary confinement regime to prisoners and prisoners. This sanction, even though it is expected to be less than fourteen days, is often applied cumulatively, so that this time becomes longer, that is, it is expected that a maximum of three consecutive sanctions can be met, which means that inmates can meet up to forty days in isolation. Specialists claim that this regime can cause irreversible psychological damage from the fourteenth day, and the UN prohibits prolonged application of this regime. Still, some people are held for long periods of time in serious harm to their physical and mental health. In Catalonia, the suicide rate under these special closed-regime departments is three times higher than in the ordinary regime and twelve times higher than outside the prison. On the other hand, it should be noted that last November 2, module 4 of the Ponent Prison Center had to be isolated by giving positive by Covid thirty-six of the eighty-eight inmates, as well as fourteen officials. The union representatives of the officials complained about the lack of mass screening of officials and inmates, as well as the lack of protective material, such as PPEs, and the absence of clear protocols to know how to act in the event of outbreaks. Even so, a large number of positives have been reported this November in the prison in Mas d'Enric or in the Brians Women's Module 1. Workers' representatives reported a few days ago that the Generalitat de Catalunya has neither taken nor taken effective measures to stop the entry of the Covid-19 into Catalan prisons, and has only reacted insufficiently and late when they already have the disease within the centers. In this regard, they stated that the Secretariat for Criminal Measures, Reintegration and Victim Care has been holding them for months, and despite having made a complaint to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, in the most absolute lack of protection of basic protective material, and give to workers and to internal and non-approved fabric masks. These are some of the problems that we have observed and detected in prison matters, and there are certainly many other problems that we have missed and that would have been important to bring to the debate in this plenary. That is why we, from Catalonia in Comú Puermes, wanted to have them picked up in this motion, because we understand that it is urgent for the Government to address them. We are pleased that Esquerra Republicana has accepted the amendments, and we are grateful for the good understanding we have had in this regard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel Buch has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.183.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, it is obvious that the Covid has made the voids of all folds in the family, in the work area, in the educational, health, cultural, the parliamentarian – and the photo of this very place, therefore, is not a great example – and also in the prison area. The motion presented to us by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left allows us to address two questions. Two questions, for one, and the management of the Covid in the prisons of this country, in the prisons of Catalonia, right? , which, somehow, we can hear, we can interpret that, conceptually, the prisoners, the people deprived of liberty have suffered two confinements: the confinement that is the penalty of deprivation of liberty, obviously, and a_second, that is the isolation in the prison for the pandemic. And that does not stop looking for a balance between the protection of salvation and the preservation of the fundamental rights. And my previous stage in the Government of the Generality at the head of the Department of the Interior makes me say today, in fact, that with the Councillor of Justice we were working intensively for this balance, for the protection of health and the preservation of the fundamental rights. We know that the community that was closed down was complicated because it stopped having, therefore, a series of vis-à-vis, visits, etcetera, to protect them. But the government took the initiative, followed the recommendations of the WHO, followed the recommendations of the United Nations, as so many other states at the European level, went beyond the measures, they drained. At the inquiry the councilwoman explained how many third degrees were donated, the situation of 86.4, which was going to expand. And, unfortunately, the councilwoman detailed to us that this was done without the cooperation of the prosecutor, the judicial system, and that is what, in some way, this young man also helps us to denounce, because the deputy company Sanglas said that he was involved. So much for getting involved, but it's more than just not putting more weight on the wheels, because the situation the counselor explained to us was that the third degree was the third degree that they found was a prosecution appeal. But this young man told them that we could address her from two points of view. There is one theme that also helps us to explain that we have met with a prosecutor with resources and demonstrations that he has made, rattled demonstrations, incomplete demonstrations, tendentious demonstrations, interested demonstrations. They seem to rest, these manifestations, in prevailing principles such as guilt and chastisement. Closer than the last century. Closer to the time or pre-season than we had to the Spanish Constitution. A prosecutor who has defended and defended that the inmates cannot express their ideology. A prosecutor's office that says prisoners have to silence their ideology. And that's not what I'm saying. I am not saying this from the perspective of Junts per Catalunya or from an independentist from this country. That's what the same justice system says. The same justices and justices of prison vigilance have made the statements that I have just said to you. We have a prosecutor who has even been warned because she poses a question or can pose a question about the rights of people, of prisoners – who are also people. And the question, in view of all this, the question we have to ask ourselves is: why has the prosecution not collaborated with the Government of the Government in the fight against the Covid pandemic? Why has the judicial system not contributed, has not collaborated in the fight against the Covid in the rape prison centres with the Government of the Generality, thinking that prisoners, that inmates who are in prison are also citizens of this country? But we also have to ask a second question. Seeing the allegations made by the courts of prison vigilance to the prosecutor's office, the question we have to ask the prosecutor's office is whether it is all going to fight against a democratic ideology that the people of Catalonia could vote and decide and could give the majority to the representatives of these political formations, which defended the freedom and democracy of this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.184.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Lord Lorraine Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.185.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, that Republican Esquerra brought us here today this motion to me seems to me, at least, paradoxical, and no longer because of the series of barbarities that are said in the text, that I will not enter or comment on, because I have only five_minutes, and, moreover, because they are the usual mantras..., but you do try to establish a sort of link between the prosecution's action and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and the situation regarding the Covid within the prisons. And why do I say it's paradoxical? Well, because it's Republican Left who runs the prisons, with Mrs. Capella here at the head. And this management, let me tell you, counsel, leaves much to be desired – leaves much to be desired. But he left much to be desired during the pandemic, of course, but also before the pandemic. This is not a thing now derived from the Covid. These are structural problems that we have been dragging for a long time, and the irresponsibility that you have shown at the head of the Council has been increasing. So much so that we have reached a point where the health and life of inmates and officials in those prisons are even being put at risk. And instead of self-criticizing, meeting, sitting down with the agents involved and seeking solutions, no, you, as always, seek guilty. You guys have to go out there and find someone to blame. And in this case, then, it can be seen that it was the prosecution and the TSJ, which must be like the prison version of « the fault is Madrid. But, of course, since the skills here are yours, then they have had to change a little bit, right? be creative and point to someone else. And I'm really telling you that I think this is worth studying. Look, according to you, there are contagions inside prisons because the D.A. and the TSJ send too many people to pre-trial detention or because not enough third-degrees are granted, huh? , that the latter is courtesy of the amendment by Junts per Catalunya that Esquerra has accepted, in case we no longer have enough with the original text. But, look, the prison officials don't have, they don't have the material to protect themselves from the Covid-19, that's not the fault of the TSJ or the prosecution; that's your responsibility, the department. Is it because you may have caught them off guard and for lack of material, as you said yourself, Mrs. Capella, a few days ago on TV3? No, that's not why. Because, then, how do you explain that, for example, prison officials do not have the necessary PPEs in case there is a fire in a module? I mean, it has nothing to do with the Covid-19, it's you who have the problem here. That, for example, officials and inmates are not made PCRs, this is also their responsibility; it is not the responsibility of the TSJ. For example, when there's an outbreak like the one that happened a few days ago at the Ponent Prison Center, you have to do a massive screening of officials and inmates. Why? Because the prison population is very sensitive. You know very well that many of the inmates have previous pathologies that could aggravate a diagnosis of Covid. And, in addition, there is also a very high percentage of older people within the staff of civil servants themselves, that is another of the structural problems that we have been dragging forward and that you do not want to face. I mean, they have the perfect cocktail so you can unleash the chaos. But the fault here is with the prosecution or the TSJ, according to you. They also complain that too many preventive prisons, which I thought you were Members of Parliament, did not know that you were also judges to decide when one measure is being taken or when the other is being taken. What you are responsible for closing the Model, closing the Model and not having opened the new prevention centre you promised. That's the problem, they closed the Model, they didn't build that center and now they have no space. And then I imagine some thinking head that will have said: "Hey, of course, we have no room, what do we do? Nothing, let's put the blame again on those who dictate too many pre-trial prisons. Man, no, that's like, for example, not enough schools now, huh? , and an enlightened one came to say that it is that too many children are schooled. What you have to do is take and build that prevention center that you promised, instead of acting as a patch or, worse still, as Mr. Mundó did with the Model. What has also happened, for example, with the special communications that have remained outside the Procicat? What you have to do is create or design a strategy; this is not opening or closing the communications faucet and it is already, a strategy, which is also your responsibility. For example, also, what about telework, Mrs. Capella? , that you from the government itself recommend telework, but then prison officials do not let you develop that telework. Look, really, instead of coming here today to try to look guilty, to make excuses, what they should have done is to come here to thank the work to the officials, who have literally left their skins and health, who have worked in deplorable conditions, afraid of contagious officials, of contagious themselves, interns or their relatives, and who have been there at the foot of the cannon preventing very complicated situations from occurring...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.186.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.187.0	...and they could have been very dangerous. I'm done, President. I think they have another turn, so take advantage of it and thank the officials, who have been giving everything from day one of this crisis. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra spoke. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.189.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, Members and Members, when we saw that Esquerra Republicana was asking himself about prison services for a moment we had hopes that I would announce a change in the policies of this Government on the subject of prison centers, we thought that it would be announced that all that we have asked the opposition groups to approach the inter-internship or the enveloping of the staff, therefore, it would be a compromise to strengthen the treatment and rehabilitation area, or the construction, lastly, of the prison centers that were announced when the Model was closed, and from which no more has been known. Finally, they saw that they were talking about the Covid, we thought they would explain to us what measures they had taken or what they wanted to take in order to improve the discontrol that initially existed at the prisons or, at last, the situation that has occurred, so lately. But no, we read the motion and, oh, surprise: they don't talk about anything like that. They do what they are so accustomed to: they pose in question what does another, in this case, the judiciary. In concrete terms, you return to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia who act as aliens to the health crisis fleeing any involvement to protect the salvation of persons deprived of liberty. The judiciary, according to you, has dictated the same proportion of preventive arrests and alternative criminal measures as if we were not living in a pandemic. Or revoke the third degree that had been granted. Before that, we wanted to consult the data – always, the data, are objective and cold – given that you yourself are public fans: internal population on October 2019, 8,510 people; internal population on October 2020, 7,959 people, therefore, 432 internal penalties less; prevent October 2019, 1,615; prevent October 2020, 1,553, therefore, there has been a decrease of the preventive internal population in sixty-two. Listen, this does not relate to the claim that you have continued to apply preventive pressures and other measures without consideration for the pandemic situation. We follow with data, classifications in third degree: October 2019, 1,711; October 2020, 1,594. The competence to classify the prison population has the secretary, perhaps it is you who have to explain the decrease in percentage, which is one tenth from October 2019 to October 2020, because they have incomplete their own objectives. Certainly, in 2020, the percentage of sentences classified in third grade was 24,3_per_cent, without pandemic and without the supposed judicial obstacles that they now claim to pose as an excuse. But we follow the data, we analyze the rule of life of article 86.4: October 2019, 290, almost 17_percent of the third grade; October 2020, 674, 42,3_percent of the sentence. Therefore, this indicator also contradicts the data and statements about the tax and court interbanks, and it could be that, indeed, there was some sensitivity to the pandemic situation. The table of descriptors on the life rules of Article 86.4 is illustrative. In the punching moments of the first phase of the pandemic it was applied without any problems to a much higher percentage of the population. The situation was exceptional, and it was maintained for a few months. It also seems consistent that the trend cannot be continuously uphill: in the same way that it returned to a certain normality on the street, this also has its reflection in the prison environment. So your arguments don't stand up for themselves. Their data, the same ones you make public, they deny them. They do not escape from their responsibilities at the time of managing the prison services and the Administration of Justice, which is certainly in a degree of affection for the high Covid, much above the first wave, but obviously they do not talk about this either. This young man, in addition, brought her in a few days ago that we have known that the four most represented unions in the prison community have joined together to demand the resignation of all the prison services for their poor management of the pandemic in the centres and, above all, for the loss of workers and workers. I think you should think about this. It can't be that you always aim at others; when it's not because you get few resources, it's because the courts condemn too much. There's enough, excuses for a bad payer: govern, manage and do it well. Old for the safety and salvation of the imprisoned population, and also for the workers with effective measures, and stop looking for hard ones that are not true, because the numbers deny them and do not lead to re. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.191.0	Thank you very much, President, for speaking from the escho. Mirin, to us, when we did the first reading of this young man, gave us the feeling that we were in front of a car, that is, that the Republican Group, which holds the title of the Department of Justice through the Honourable Councillor Capella, was doing what could be done directly through the Councillor's department. But, certainly, if they read the first and third accords of this motion, they see that they are questions that refer to another area, that is not the prop of the department, but that it refers not to sharing the criteria of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and of the prosecution, both for what it does to its necessary involvement in the salvation of internal people – I think I will not have a positive answer, but it is good that we ask it – as to the treatment that they give to political pressure. And to our respect what we want to do is another reflection, which is: it is so clear the condition of political prisoners that they have, for the behavior of the prosecution and the TSJ, that, obviously, internal or internal has limited their right to ideological freedom and freedom of expression, and derived from this they are given a different prison treatment on the part of the High Court of Justice and on the part of the prosecution. And this is a new plasma, a new plasma, because they're political people. Also, on the second part, there is a time that makes reference to putting in value the dialog as a necessary mechanism. We say so: we will vote for it because we also believe that the dialog is a necessary mechanism to make the right to self-determination, for one band, and, for another band, for amnesty, but that no one wants to find the UPC in the dialog as a mechanism in itself to give the government of the Spanish State an enabling status. And, secondly, for what is the second large content of the present young man, look, at us he has called our attention, but it seems very positive to us that it is about eradicating any type of physical or psychological abuse, because it means that they are aware that this exists. And this is a positive exercise of transparency, too, which has to be approached from the logic of human rights and with a feminist look. But we'd like to do this recon. On item 4, we will vote in favour of all points, except for item d, and we want to explain why. It seems to us that what is proposed in relation to the winging rule is something better than the daily practice of the Catalan penitentiary centres, but, as you know, our position on the winging rule is another, which must disappear. And, therefore, the better, we will abstain, but we will not vote in favour. And the last one, the one missing from this young man, but neither has this sub-group made it through exams: presuppositional endowment for the working conditions of the officials and prison staff and the rest of the staff of Catalan prison centres. If we don't address this issue, we can hardly give a global answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Manuel Reyes has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.193.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor, today Esquerra Republicana brings us a motion to talk about prison services during the pandemic, during the coronavirus. It is a motion that they bring us to congratulate themselves, to hang themselves with medals. Do you remember that comic wizard who hung his medals? The same thing, the same thing in this motion, the exact same thing. Look, they take the opportunity to charge against all those who do not follow the current, with the prosecution, with the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, against all – against all –: « others make it fatal. Well, it seems that you have a lot of concern, a lot, especially for the prisoners, especially with some prisoners, but, yes, for the officials, for the justice workers, it seems that you don't have that much sensitivity. And I tell you that they do not have as much sensitivity according to what nine days ago the representative unions as they are UGT, as they are Workers Commissions, as it is CSIF or as it is CATAC, so they published: they promote a collection of signatures to request the cessation of the entire prison dome. One, two, three, four unions, Madam Counsellor, four unions calling for the cessation of the entire dome. More headlines– more headlines–, this one from the first wave. During the first wave, precisely, there was a very strong holder of incompetence: "Disappeared councillor and manipulative secretary. Workers' Commissions, during the first wave. It means that you, who come here to hang your medals, would first have to win them, because you're not doing it. And we have seen it, precisely, also with those positive inmates in the prison of Mas d'Enric, how the workers of that prison complained of expired masks – expired masks –, which was what the Government gave them. They claim the masks, the FFP2, precisely those of their governing partner, those of the Socialist Party and those of Podemos, those who do not want to lower VAT, that of their partners, that, the workers demand. Give me those masks. We can make that economic effort, sure, counselor, we can make it. So, less medals, more work. They also ask Lleida PCRs workers, who have to pay them, the PCRs. Madam Councillor, gentlemen of the Republican Left, before bringing these motions to us, please worry about the workers and worry about the prisoners as well. Because the prisoners themselves are asking them to guarantee communications, they are asking for improvements, they are even asking for the video call, they are asking that displacements be an exception to perimeter confinement. And this is being asked by the Institute of Human Rights of Catalonia, the defense commission of the Barcelona Bar Association, the association of relatives of prisoners of Catalonia and the association Justice and Peace. They don't even do it well with the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.194.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.195.0	They don't even do it right with the prisoners. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.196.0	Thank you. Finally, he has the word, in a twist to pronounce himself on the papers, the deputy Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.197.0	Thank you, President. Look, after I've heard a lot of speeches here, I'd recommend a first thing to you: they're coming in next time. Next time, they're presenting exams. If all that you say is that it's so bad and that we're auto-bombing and I don't know what stories of whether you're medalling and not medalling. Look, better these medals than some, let's just say, to promote the repression we've suffered in this country, okay? And, in any case, if there are some things you don't like – which is possible, and in any case, we have a debate – they make a proposal and we debate it. We're not going out here... because, look, Mrs. Ibarra, we're talking about data. You've done a data reflection, but I'm missing an initial data that you haven't given me: the crime name has dropped. If the name of crimes is lower, the name of prisoners must be lower and the name of preventius must be lower. Clearly, you give me partial data. So, while you don't give them all to me and I miss this first one, it creates a deception for us. I, therefore, cannot compare the same magnitudes. And you didn't do it with that. They talk to us, you and Mrs. Roldán, that if the Model, that if the Model, that if the Model, that if there is no... Escort, knows who is the occupation index of the prisons of Catalonia? A 87_per_cent. Do you know what the percentage in Europe is? A 87_per_cent. In any case, there are countries where there is an overoccupation of prisons, but that is not the problem, in this country. So... And there is a plan. Ms. Roldán said: "There is no planning. Yes, there's a plan. Some questions... Some prison centers are pending operations, let's just say, of ceasing lands to be able to build these prison centers. But we're not talking about prison overload. In any case, what we're asking for in this young man is that we all apply, that we all cooperate. It is not a free criticism of the judicial system, but it is asking the judicial system to be permeable to the political reality and the social and epidemiological reality that we have. Therefore, from this point of view, what we are asking is for participation, just as all sectors in this country are involved. So, nothing more. Anyway, I think... I invite them, I insist, to participate in improving these motions, as other parliamentary groups have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.198.0	Thank you, Congressman. After this point and the motions, let's move on to the interrogations. [[Question to the Government on renewable energies and opportunities for the territory]] [[300-00331/12]] And the first one is about renewable energies as opportunities for the territory, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Puig. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.199.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, allow me to make this inquiry to put on the table the problem of the social acceptability of the technologies that are used to capture the energy involved and transform it into useful energy for society. It is a fact that in some of our country's right-wings there has been reluctance to take advantage of the wind and the sun. We also need to be aware that our country has not done its dues to make way for the capgirament of energy. I'd like to make a history. At the beginning of the 1980s, Catalonia pioneered the introduction of technology to take advantage of the wind to produce electricity. It was the March of 84 when the first wind turbine designed and built in Catalonia was connected to the electric grid. It was a 15 quilowatt machine, six-metre blades on a deu_metre tower. There were times when modern wind technology, especially in Denmark, was born, the result of a popular movement of opposition to nuclear energy, which caused the Danish Parliament to vote that they would not make nuclear power stations. It was the '80s. But it wasn't until almost twenty years ago, the April of 2005, when Catalonia was over 100 megawatts, we actually arrived at 144. Then, this power was only 1.75 of all wind power installed in the Spanish State. Six years later, arriving in 2011, the wind turbine in Catalonia exceeded 1,000 megawatts of installed power, while in the Spanish State there were no more than 21,500. I mean, Since 2011, it's been nine years. And today we are in 2020 and we continue in an atzucac, since the installed power not above 1,270 megawatts, which represents only a 5.6_per_cent of all the wind power installed in the Spanish State. For what it does to the technology to convert the light of the sun into electricity, in Catalonia we only have 342 megawatts installed in solar photovoltaic systems, a 3.35_per_cent of all the power installed in the Spanish State. And the challenge ahead of us is enormous if we want to be consistent with climate and environmental commitments to radically transform energy systems, which force us to stop cremating fossils and force us to shut down nuclear weapons, because they are old and obsolete. And in order to be able to have energy we have to do this from the capture and transformation of the energy contained in the biospheric and lithospheric flows that are manifested in the surroundings. Catalonia cannot waste more time doing the necessary work to have an energy system based on renewables. We're talking about renewable energy sources. It could also be considered as renewable hydraulics. But during the first two thirds of the 20th century, the exploitation of energy contained in the flowing and stored water was done on the basis of authoritative decisions of the states, which led to population displacements, loss of fertile soil, destruction of natural systems, etc. And for the system of state concessions, in the long term, the profit of this energy, the hydraulics, only benefited the large electrical concessions and in no case meant a benefit to the inhabitants of the affected populations. And when the late 20th century began to fill up energy-gathering projects that contain the movements of air masses that envelop our planet, it opened up the great opportunity to have energy without having to cremate anything. These masses of air are scalded by the interaction of the sun's radiation with the uneven surfaces of the planet and give place to the formation of the winds, and the winds are unevenly manifested to the different indirects; even so, each contrada is given specific names. That doesn't mean there's enough wind to be able to take advantage of it. Wind energy, which is unequally manifested in the different territories of the country, takes advantage of the technology of wind turbines, installed either individually or in clusters. They call themselves, in English, "wind farms or, in our language, "wind farms. So, to our country almost all the projects that have been completed so far have been promoted and carried out by companies with strictly commercial purposes and, more often than not, without delay in the territory. This has meant that the benefits of these benefits have been largely at the hands of promoters and their shareholders. For me, this is the main cause of protest and local opposition to many projects. We are in the 21st century and we should be able to learn from past times and overcome the purely extractive economic schemes that were applied then and that impoverish the territories and their people. Today it cannot be understood or accepted that the energy necessary for the supply of the services that society demands to enjoy a dignified life is supplied only for the great heretical enterprises of the ancient monopolies, or foreign enterprises with purely commercial purposes. To do so implies the depletion of the affected sectors and the enrichment of a minority. In Catalonia not all the territories that conform the country have the same potential for doing the capture of this energy that we have around it. Therefore, not all can be made installations to take advantage of the wind. In change, many districts can benefit from the energy that sends us the sun free of charge. To make the energy transition to the renewable cent we need to be able to create the conditions so that the necessary installations are accepted for the population. And not only that, but the energy transition will only be a reality if it counts on the complicity of the whole society, since renewables, to present themselves in a dispersed and widely distributed way, require space to take advantage of the wind as much as the sun, and with the fact that in our country the population occupies space very irregularly in the territory there are areas where there is enough space to take advantage of and others where there is no space. This requires an understanding, an agreement, a pact between rural and urban areas, to make the benefits of solar and wind energy so that everyone benefits from the wealth generated by these captures. And to count on the complicity of society that local communities can see the concrete benefits of the projects they want to do in the territories where these communities are based. There's plenty of experience in the world to see it. I will focus on a few examples. The tax band that pays the projects to local communities, there are many different experiences – especially in Europe, where it started – as well as local communities being able to benefit from these benefits. For example, the creation of foundations of Community benefits that allow access to benefits financed for the local population. Benefits in species to give support to needs of the local community. Participation in municipal programs to give support to the community. For example, there are municipalities that have established a green label menu to qualify concrete projects that benefit the territory – in the words "just wind label", or positive energy territories, produce more energy than they need. And I want to do it especially in a _fourth way that local communities can get a benefit: it's participation in projects so that the benefits generated by reverse projects, it's distributed among the participants. Europe has many examples of citizen participation in wind and solar projects. I'll put them on one of the most recent ones. In Holland, the ancient wind farm, which had 220 machines that today have been made, the wind farm of Zeewolde, have been replaced, these sails, by a far more modern machine that gives much more energy– 336 megawatts, a part of what we have installed in Catalonia in a wind farm–, is allowed the participation of the citizenry from five hundred_euros. There's only one project of this kind in Catalonia. A 2.35 megawatt machine that was installed in 2018 and was possible with the participation of nearly six-hundred people. I think we should be able to help create an energy system that empowers people and communities with local sources of renewable energy so that they can profit from their capture, transformation and use. This is what many of the planet's rightful people say about energy democracy, putting ethics in the upper case. Can you tell us, counselor, how will these situations be addressed to the new energy transition law that your department is working on? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Ramon Tremosa. Forward
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.201.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Counselor, deputies and deputies, very late. It was interesting to listen to this lesson, this small master class in an area where the deputy who spoke, therefore, is an expert and one of the pioneers in this country. And so I'm new to this job, so I like a lot of the information that he sends me, the comments that we make, that this is always helpful here, right? Well, that's true, the wind started in Catalonia, but let's go to where. And that, therefore, has many reasonings. Catalonia is a small country, it is a country with a lot of mountains, it is a country where more than half the territory has a 20_per_cent slope, and therefore this makes it very difficult to live there, work there or install energy installations. In change, Aragó, who leads this year 2020 in the Spanish State, therefore, the generation of wind energy, moreover, with processes of administrative agility that we would have to imitate the Generality, because they do..., there really are things to study, in the case of Aragonese. Aragó has all the population, practically, concentrated in Zaragoza, has vast desert areas, where it is very easy to make solar plates, photovoltaics, wind... And, in change, in Catalonia, therefore, we have a lot of mountains, we have a lot of people, we have, moreover, a map of complicated wind potential, that is to say, only in the Empordad, and, moreover, the tramuntana according to how strong it is for wind energy; the channel of the Ebra is very fit, for which I have been able to see, and it is, in this sense, therefore, habitable, but it is already very saturated, there is a lot of opposition from the veins, so... In addition, there is a lot of space with an important economic value, there are many hectares of irrigation, the Urgell channel, seventy-thousand hectares, the Segarra-Garrigues channel also in transition, combining the support region with the transformation region, there is also a lot of area of important economic value. Therefore, there are many reasons for which Catalonia is a country, therefore, which costs a lot. Plus, we like the landscape, people value the landscape, people only have a value, people pay to buy a farm. This does not happen in other places in the Spanish State, where the earth is infinite, and therefore the value tends to zero. And in this sense, therefore, we Catalans have a way of doing and also being very peculiar, that there are three Catalans and four opinions. I mean, that's how we go, too, in a lot of things. That's the word about the Jews, but we can also apply it to us. And in that sense, let's get to the bottom of it, huh? , and may I celebrate that this government, the former will advise, boosted the Decree Law 16/2019, which has been an important change, in this sense, of trend. Fortunately, it has multiplied the previous figures, from the previous decade that we came, from the previous decree of 2009, so, practically, the wind was stagnant and the photovoltaics had not doubled, and now, in change, the rate of progress is good. Also the moment we live in a pandemic, social, economic, has fostered an acceleration of social sensitivity, which is now much bigger. There was one, which I read the month of June, that California Tesla was the first company to sell automobiles. One thing is that Tesla runs a stock market because shareholders count future benefits. Another thing is that you sell them to dealers already in a lead to an electric car company. And in this sense, it's interesting to see that what we thought was going to happen I don't know when it's already happening, and it's coming forward, and that these processes are coming sooner than later, because we really need to reverse an increase in temperatures and a climate change that, if we don't, we'll be late. That is to say, the Arctic Ocean thawing is more pressing than was said, and, therefore, we have very worrying indicators that make it really necessary to act decisively and prioritize, in this sense, the inn of this wind and photovoltaic energy that we so much need to reach the goal: 2050_is to be a completely renewable country. In this sense, the Royal Decree 16/2019 simplified the administrative procedures a lot, and therefore facilitated the energy self-generation systems, and this is a question that has greatly facilitated the implementation. What's going on, what's going on – I'm making a point here now – in Catalonia we're from the box and the hortet, aren't we? That said President Macia, and now we're putting the plate in the roof as well. I mean, the box, the horte and the plate are pretty good for home self-consumption. But we need to move the industry, too. Catalonia wants to be an industrial country. Therefore, we will need large installations, and here the sea wind has great potential, because the Empordad is perhaps the best sea wind to the sea that does not land. Besides, Empordà is nice, and it will also generate conflicts. Therefore, therefore, we would very welcome projects of sea wind to Empordà. The Ebre Delta is also wind zone, to make sea wind, but it is not so deep and it seems to be not so suitable, for which I understand. But in this sense, then, if we want to continue to feel like an industrial country, the industry requires a lot of energy and we need to go beyond the plate that we'll all have on the roof some day, that's fine, but there's not enough. We need, therefore, even more power, because we want to remain an industrial country, because industry gives high productivity, high wages, high taxes, and, therefore, it is possible to maintain the state of welfare and public policies in the future. Therefore, in this sense, therefore, Decree 16/2019 also created the Ponència of renewable energies, there are four departments. I was able to attend a session, there is practically half of the projects..., 60_per_cent is positively informed and a 40, negatively. I've seen that there's an imbalance, there's a lot more wind projects being rejected than photovoltaics, and we also need to study these questions, don't we? because we have to protect the fauna, and the fauna has to be able to live and it has to be able to be calm. But we must see the tranquillity of fauna, which sometimes prevents permissions, and this I should look at again, right? , because, in this sense, I think he has resorted to it in order not to have such a high rate of rebuying wind projects in different co-operations for themes of coexistence. The fauna can also adapt a little, can't it? And at least, for example, experiences from other countries can be interesting. Perhaps the Member has more information and can inform us: "Listen to me, this country has done so, this country has done so in this other way, because we have a percentage of wind energy recovery, so, for me, too high, in my opinion, right? And then the honourable Member also spoke of how to encourage local participation in renewable energy installations. It's a possibility that we need to study energy transition law. To countries like Denmark, as Holland fans, therefore, that people do not have this rebuig to the big company that brings a few mills to a region, if there is a small participation that project also 'lfas teu, no? And in this sense, then, it's a very good idea. And also another interesting issue: the rescue of hydroelectric power plants. I come from the Ribagorça and the Noguera Ribagorçana is the most exploited river on the planet, because it is not unprofitable a_metre of pendant. And that was done fifty years ago with the promise that "we will all live from the plant, and now there is no place of work, neither to the central of Scales, nor to the central of Channels, nor to the central of Santa Ana. In addition, I had the pleasure of visiting as a Euro MP the underground power station of Muntanyana, which is a power station..., must be the most profitable of the world, which produces a percentage of the energy consumed by the province of Lleida of about 30_percent. Only a water jump from Castissen up to the pantà cua of Channels of a hundred_width_metres that moves some turbines. So you must be the most unknown prey, huh? , because it is to send the Discover Catalonia, because I remember that one day we went there with Councillor Santi Vila in 2015 to declare the congost of Mont-rebei Xarxa Natura 2000 and to make a report on a catch project that there was at the bottom of the pant. So he disconceived that there was the underground central of Muntanyana. Therefore, the subject of the benefits of these hydroelectrics, as they revert to the region, the Noguera Ribagorçana is much more deserted than the Noguera Pallaresa, because they have known to agree with Endesa to the Noguera Pallarçana that they have not been possible in the Ribagorçana. So, it's a debate that... all this, so, the law that we have, that we would have brought here if there had not been the disqualification of President Torra... so we would have brought it. These proposals will be very welcome to Catalonia's energy transition law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.202.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the energy transition and decarbonisation of the Catalan economy]] [[300-00332/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about the energy transition and decarbonization of the Catalan economy, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.203.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies, deputies, as he recently stated in an article he wrote a few days ago, if I do not recall badly in the Diari Expansion, the President of the Government of Spain, Mr. Pedro Sánchez..., said that before an extraordinary circumstance as the Covid-19 has been, an extraordinary response is necessary. The health crisis that we are experiencing, Mr. Counsellor, of some magnitudes that we can't imagine – if you ask us, I believe that none of those who are here today have made an answer in the sense that we would be in this situation – has also put the health system in crisis, but it has put our economies in crisis and causes difficult social problems. But it has also accelerated the transformation of our economies – or it can accelerate the transformation of our economies. I'm talking about Europe, Spain, Catalonia. The challenge is enormous. And beyond the political and, above all, ideological differences of an economic model, which we may have, my parliamentary group believes that we can find denominators between governments, between parties, between unions and entrepreneurs. We have the crisis of the Covid, that's right, but we have a climate crisis – talked about it before Congressman Puig, right? – which also questions the product model, the distribution model, the consumption model, a model, in short, which demands change. Europe, unlike the crisis of the year 2008, has put – it will put – economic resources at the disposal of national economies. This time, counselor, our opinion is that we cannot let the train pass as many times has passed in the history of our country, right? And to make this call a full look, a generous look, an ambitious look. You might as well be able to wake up. To agree that we play the future of future generations, of many generations. Counselor, the Socialist Group is aware of the moment we are living at the door of some elections, between which we will demand the confidence of the citizenry. This sometimes brings us too to extricate our positions, doesn't it? We also observe..., here is a point of concern like your government – of concern for which we are discussing, eh? – the triflings are on the order of the day, and this, from the point of view of management, is not desirable people and, above all, at a time like this. But we insist: now a new bet for a new modernization of Catalonia and Spain and Europe. The mission is to create employment, to create businesses and to strengthen those that we have in mind, from our point of view, to four transformations that the country needs: digitization, economic transition, gender equality and social and territorial cohesion. We have to overcome this crisis by transforming our product fabric with intelligence, growing short term, but thinking long term, right? And that alone we can do, moreover, by decarbonizing the economy. The creation of the European recovery fund, the Next Generation, makes available to Spain 140,000_million euros in the form of loans and transfers for the period that will start the year until 2026. And in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that the Government of Spain has presented to us explains that it will concentrate the mobilization effort of the 72_million euros available in the form of transfers over the next three years, because the impact of the recovery on the economy remains fast. I say this: we are concerned that disagreements with the government – hopefully not – will affect the proposals that the joint administration of Catalonia and the private sector must present. The deadline for submission is open and, from our point of view, counselor, it is necessary that parliamentary groups also convene. This morning our deputy Alicia Romero and all the Members who have spoken – and I assume that she will then vote in this sense..., summon the parliamentary groups in the format that you, the Government, want, so as to claim this necessary impetus on the part of all Catalan society. And returning to the decarbonization of our economy. We are ahead of the opportunity to create a different economic model, more efficient in the use of resources, much more cautious at the time of generating negative externalities and with a decided impulse for the circular economy, because Catalonia regains its ability to be an engine and leader in Spain and Europe. And one of the keys back to this new model is the energy transition, motu, also, in part, of the inquiry that he made before his own parliamentary group. You said, Catalonia's in renewables. It's not us who denied it, is it? We were just saying that, weren't we? The power installed in renewable energies in Catalonia accounts for 7.9_percent of the power installed in all of Spain. If we add the self-consumption, as they say before, it goes up to about 9_per_cent, to 8.95_per_cent. We are, from our point of view, with a government, will allow me to express colloquial, mouth, say that he agrees with renewables, but then he does not speak to the bases of his parties, right? , which they still speak – I have seen in some statements these last weeks – of visual impact. I think it's about visual impact because you can't talk about anything else, can you? Not to mention, Mr. Counselor, the radicals of the same Administration that stick to the wheels or, directly, stop the projects. That's what you said. Administrative processing is being denied, the first step towards the installation of wind and photovoltaic parks in our country; not only wind parks, but also photovoltaic parks. The Nimbys have revived because we believe that there is an absence from the government in this matter, right? And we want a government-compromised leadership. He'll have our support, they've always had it, we've always shown it. Now, he's never been taken. Just like your predecessors. And while we're at it, we'll have to replace, at the end of this decade, the decade that we'll start the year you see, three nuclear reactors, four gas reactors, if we're just talking about electric energy, right? , which generates electrical energy. But if we include the rest of the energy we consume in transport, in industry, in the residential sector, the amount of electricity we need in the future, in these proper years, we can increase around 70 or 80 per cent of what we consume now; that is, we should almost double this amount, right? This production. We want to remind you – I am sure you know this – that the Catalonian Parliament approved the Climate Change Act three years ago, which says that Catalonia has to walk up to 100 % of renewable energies. 2050, that's right, but to get to that 2050 tape, there's got to be an intermediate path, right? , which happens, exactly, all the experts say, for the year 2030, if we want to reach this goal of renewable percent. And on this path of these own two years, which pass very quickly, you will need to install a minimum of two thousand megawatts of us. The question is, how do they think they will do it? Because it's just words that don't go forward. Or do they think they import renewable energy from the rest of Espanya, as they say in the presentation of the National Energy Pact? – certainly, the national pact never agreed with the opposition. And in the measure, counselor, that went forward to hold a lot of renewable energy – discontinuous, sun and wind–, we must go ahead preview, moreover, the need to increase the continuous renewable, right? , which we can arrange the whole year and at any time: hydraulic pump, thermosolar or, also, storage through the hydrogen or the batteries. Can we get five cents of what the government has to do to bring these needs to fruition? With what alliances do you think we should do it? And the new model, you said, also allows its decentralisation, therefore, the promotion of self-consumption, also in energetic communities both residential and industrial. What action plans do they have from Icaen or the Directorate General of Energy? It's true, we're in front of a disruptive system, as I said. But despite this, we need to count on big companies, because we are talking about thousands of millions of euros of investments, because we are talking about replacing our country's entire energy system. We have to work it out, don't we? , the two ways to tackle this issue. How do you think you're doing or what idea do you think the generality has to do to intervene in this market? We wait for your answers to raise some other questions on the next return.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.204.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, there is now a word from the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.205.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Counsellor, Members, Members, many thanks for your intervention. See, two days ago I visited the company Silence in Molins de Rei, together with the mayor. As you know, it cremated a few weeks ago, and so, well, as the government will explain what we've done for this company, which is Europe's leader in its field of sustainable motorcycles, right? Clearly, that's very interesting, and that's a pretty thing, isn't it? Catalonia had been a leader in the 1970s with different brands in the field of motorcycles, but as a result of its inability to group them together in a large company they were all lost. But well, life has given many times and today we can increase our self-esteem as the country sees that a company that was born with an impulse of Advance, of the Generality, through the Department of Enterprise, today is already European leader. I thought I was a state leader, and they said to me, those of the company, "no, we are already European leaders. So, look, a lot of good country news, 'cause I didn't have that, did I? So, look, Silence, which is this leading European motorcycle company, has all the numbers, fits perfectly with these European projects that you said: sustainable mobility, climate change and digitalisation. Three in one. Therefore, it is a case of book, manual, to aspire to one of these fantastic projects that will come from the European Union funded from the year it goes. And the Generality, through the Directorate General of Industry of my department, has offered an endorsement and we are negotiating with this company through the ICF a credit, and also the public enterprise Avançsa, of our department, will postpone the interests for one year of the participation that we have and to which we have right to help the reconstruction of this company. What did the Spanish government do for Silence? So, look, I want to thank Raúl Blanco, Secretary of State of Industry, who visited the company when he cremated, because he went back to the region and, therefore, went directly there. And the Raúl Blanco, who I know from the University of Barcelona, I was a professor when he was studying, and with whom we have a very fluid relationship for European background themes, showed a great sensitivity visiting this company. But what's going on? Let the company then call the ministry: "Well, we'll see, we'll see. On the other hand, the Government of the Generalitat has remained agile and already have on the table the instruments to begin the reconstruction of the plant of Molins that was cremated; that of Sant Boi works perfectly, but that of Molins, so let's say, has been powdered, has been charred, right? And in this sense, therefore, an example of the sensitivity of this whole government to the question of sustainable mobility and how to help a leading European company such as Silence, of a problem that has been so great, such as a fire on a Tuesday night, isn't it? We, for the sake of European foundations, are a priority option for this government until the point we attended, Vice President Aragonès for the morning and I for the late, at meetings which the European Commission has been pleased to hold, from one side, with the autonomous presidents, from the other side, with the business advisors. I have to say, for what it does to me, that at the late session the Deputy Director-General of the European Commission answered the six questions that the Government of Catalonia asked her. So, he gave us information about how these funds are going to be, and it's information that we're working on, and we appreciate it, right? We have created an advisory committee, where we have, for example, the Andreu Mas-Colell, where there is Joaquim Coello, where there are a few_15 personalities in the different areas that can help us in this process of selecting European projects, where there is Miquel Puig, who is the person we sorted because you coordinate this group. I can tell you that the nicest part of the job I'm doing as a counselor has been being able to travel all over Catalonia and see a few of these projects, visualize a few of these projects. I already tell you that before Nadal the Government of Catalonia will present, of different departments, because it is also Salut, with biomedical research, Agriculture, with research in the agri-food field, they are also, let's say, visualizing, channelizing, raising projects, therefore, the Department of Enterprise has also not been able to come out much, because as you know there is the Directorate General of Industry, the Directorate General of Energy, questions of tourism, of trade, therefore, is a very extensive consultancy. And, therefore, not pateixi, that Catalonia will present many good tractor projects, that will be unbeatable in Madrid when it is time to make the tria. This is if more is not the will with which we are inviting many people to group their projects into a _sun, to add a research center and a university. It wasn't because I have my pet and I'm doing my project, we're trying to group it together, and that's what we do with employers, chambers of commerce, professional colleges. So this is the nicest part of the job I'm doing as a counselor, the most stimulating. And you can go region by region, and I thought I knew Catalonia, because I've visited it a lot and I've made books of the Catalan economy and I'm surprised, region by region, when I discover new talent, new start-ups, new businesses, we projects that are stimulating and that allow to visualize a good future for this country, very good for this country, whenever we channel these 140,000_millions that will come from the European Union to Spain. Fixed's that in the diaris, in the diaris of Madrid and Barcelona, there is a phrase: « Spanish can spend 140,000_million European euros in a late? Yeah. For example, you can decide: "We double the high-speed trains. That, in a late hour, money has already been spent, 'cause there's a lot of gain, huh? And from the start they have this function too. But you think that the Airef, the independent tax authority, created since the European Union in 2013, already made a report this past study said: "Prou AVEs, there is already mass built. The one that comes, the one that wants to do it will still be more expensive and less socially and economically profitable. Therefore, we dedicate money to some other things – public money, which is scarce, right? But at the same time, we find: « Can Spain spend 140,000_million in a late period? Yeah. But is it possible to spend 140,000_million euros on the projects, in the camps that the European Union strictly marks? Climate change, sustainable mobility, energy revolution, digitization. You see articles that say: "Woe, woe, woe, we will not have enough projects. No country, Catalonia alone could present, will be on condition of presenting hundreds of projects that would cover a very important part of these 140,000_millions, much above the pes de Catalunya in its GDP and its exports, because I could not see a few and they are really spectacular. I, therefore, so much good... Miri, I'll tell you something else. You talked about Pedro Sánchez. I'll tell Mr. Pedro Sánchez something. Doing a bad use of these 140,000_millions that will come from Brussels can take Spain to the rescue. Making good use of it can be an opportunity for the benefit of everyone, big businesses and peppers and many sectors, but making bad use of it is losing one last opportunity. I think so, huh? I mean, doing a little bit of that money can get Spain to a rescue. And certainly, how have these European foundations been used, which is centralizing its management in Moncloa, which you speak with different ministries, which from my advice we speak with four ministries and it turns out that you see that the ministries do not have all the information either. Centralizing all this process only in Moncloa with very few people, well, if it's done well it could be very effective, but it may not be right. So that's not how other federal countries operated. For example, in Belgium, the Government of Wallonia and the Government of Flanders were required to provide Brussels with projects from its regions, as it also passed to Germany. Spain has made a difference, but let us hope that if we do not further press Brussels to draw up the rules on how payments should be audited on the basis that they would come on a regular basis, so... well, the attached Commission of the European Union has made it clear: "We will not finance projects that arise outside the scope we have specified. I repeat: it will not finance, the European Union, projects that come out of the pre-set area where they are to be spent, that is where we understand that the generation of wealth, of jobs, the reconstruction that we need in front of Europe will come. Therefore, in this sense I am not pessimistic, on the contrary, it is a great opportunity, and that, with the day to day so hard that we have the pandemic, we really have to manage a brutal health drama and an economic pandemic that can still be more devastating, so raising our eyes and being able to see this effort made by the European Union is very good news. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia will be the first interested party, therefore, to ensure that this money is well used for everyone's benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.206.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, the new word has the deputy Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.207.0	Thank you, President. I don't know if he has – I'm sure he has – the counselor, who has been more grateful to speak of Spain than of Catalonia. And, by the way, a little incisive on the subject of Silence, isn't it? The Secretary of Industry of the Ministry is in direct contact with the company from the zero minute to carry also the aids that from the ministry have to articulate. I'm saying that because I just talked to him, to corroborate the information you gave us. We insist: the just and compromised economic transition with international treaties must be placed, from our point of view, at the centre of the country's economic and political model, because to respond to the economic crisis, I insist, and climate change is urgent, but also an opportunity for social and, above all, economic progress, for Catalonia, together with digitalisation. Counselor, in the Government of which you are a part, some of your colleagues go hand in hand, and torpedo projects with a short-lived electoral vision and with an energetic focus that does not respond well to the current and future needs of Catalonia. Let us make it clear: the implementation of renewables is a reptile of a country, and also a reptile of a generation, and we insist on the need to set priorities. Catalonia has to stop being at the forefront of renewable energies in Spain. The energy transition is not just about how we implement renewables, it is about working for the absolutation of carbon neutrality by 2050, to defossilize, as said by colleague Pep Puig, the country's economy and promoting environmental policies necessary to combat climate change at all territorial levels and in all administrations; it is working for a reduction of 55_percent of CO2 emissions by 2030, in a coordinated manner with the directives already issued by the European Union. The Climate Change Law sets a few lower targets, we need to reformulate and recalculate these emission targets – the Climate Change Experts Committee has to do this, which certainly the Territorial and Sustainability Council should put in the means they claim. The committee of experts is an organ of this Parliament that must make carbon assumptions, or must present carbon assumptions. It's also working for sustainable mobility and for public-private collaboration across Catalonia's mobility sector – look at you, I agree with this approach. It is also necessary, from our point of view, a plan of renewal and modernization of industrial polygons to transform them into polygons of sustainable economic activity. It is also to talk about a block plan linked to a strategy of energetic rehabilitation of habitats, that improves the living conditions of residents of these habitats, of these barrels, but that contributes to the reduction of emissions of gases of winter effect, because the residential sector is also an emitter of gases of winter effect. And, at the same time, we should be able to foster local energy self-consumption communities in the municipalities – residential or industrial, huh? , before I spoke, in the first part of my inquiry. This work and nine-opportunities agenda that defines the European recovery foundation – I insist on it again, I think we won't have discrepancies in this, right? – It's an opportunity, but it's also a historical responsibility of those who at these times have had to manage this stage. And we will have to guarantee, yes, sir, a rigorous and effective execution. The Government of Spain – because you attended the conference – has already expressed its willingness to co-governance these foundations and the projects that must accompany them. And, beyond the debates we may have, we would like to know whether they are already coordinating with ministries and what will be the main projects that companies, research centres, local administrations, the same administration of the Generality, and whether they are in line with European objectives and priorities. All these questions that I raise to you will also be found in the motion that, at the end of today's plenary, we will present and discuss in fifteen days' time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.208.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. For the final reply, the counselor has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.209.0	Mr. Deputy, very briefly. Today's November 19th. I am pleased that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Industry has given him this answer. I don't doubt it, on the contrary, because I will be the first to recognize in his parliamentary office that if the ministry's help comes there, I will thank them publicly, as I have done some other time. So, on the contrary. But I only give her the information, the generality has already done a job with agility. So much good the ministry was also in such a hurry, isn't it? Miri, do we have a relationship with the ministries? Yeah. And it is fluid, yes, because it is of everyone's interest that these projects come out well, for example, the Barcelona Supercomputing Center: 60_per_cent Ministry of Economy, 30_per_cent Generality, 10_per_cent UPC. Here the board is bound and there is, and today's date is good. Therefore, we, this institutional collaboration for the benefit of European projects that can be presented by the BSC, we will keep it and we will keep it because it is our obligation. Therefore, I do not regret that this will be done. And I have already told him, therefore, that before Nadal the different councils can do an act, as the Generalitat, advised for this committee of experts where we can show a picture of what the future of Catalonia can be, if these European foundations are channeled towards these projects that we believe have an interest in the country, because they will be tractor projects, right? I agree with you that we have to do a job in the end, because it is true that there is an opposition, many times unreasoned, to projects of wind and photovoltaic energy. And in this sense, for example, if we do not have a volume of a number of new renewable energies installed in 2030, the cost of not keeping it will be many high voltage lines. Therefore, we must start saying to the Catalans: "If we say no to everything, the future of Catalonia will be, therefore, thirty MATs that will enter for Castelló, for Terol, for Zaragoza, for Osca and for France. Which, by the way, the MAT of France, if I wasn't wrong, after Gloria made the Costa Brava light for many weeks, huh? And if we didn't have that MAT, the month of fever would have passed very cold and very dark. Therefore, the sound is renewable and we are able to do this exercise to say: really the visual impact is decisive, really the tranquility of the guarantyed alloy is significantly altered to say no to a wind project? I don't know, we have to do this debate, huh? I propose it, because, if not, the alternative is that 30 MATs will enter Catalonia from now on, and then, in the name of energy sovereignty, we will end up feeling more dependent than ever on the energy they produced in France and Aragó and elsewhere. Therefore, this is a debate that we need to discuss, and here, therefore, if the Socialist Group has good initiatives, we have no problem giving it support. I worked mainly with the Social-Democratic Group in two years in the European Parliament, and therefore I do not have any damage to entry, as I did not have any harm in naming Miquel Puig, of the Republican Left, as coordinator of this government adviser group, because I recognize it as a value, as we have all recognized, and a skills and knowledge that in this concrete case can be very useful. So, I didn't feel sorry for it, that we'd find ourselves in this. And in this sense, this government is willing to collect the best initiatives from all groups so as to find the consensus that makes the path that we all need for the new energy of Catalonia stronger and easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.210.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[He asked the government about the role of libraries in bringing culture to the citizens, especially in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.]] [[300-00330/12]] We now turn to the fourteenth of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the role of libraries in bringing culture to the citizen, especially in the second wave of the pandemic of the Covid-19, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose her, has the word French Congressman Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.211.0	Vice President, good afternoon. Bona tarda, honorable councillor. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. "We can understand the culture of our country as the sum and compendium of so many substrates and so many of us as citizens and citizens want to bring their creativity, their knowledge, their initiative, their sensitivity, their ability to project towards and beyond the territory all that makes us so similar and so different from the cultures that they involve us. Do you know whose text this is, Counselor? I've already advanced that it's not Mr. Alfonso Guerra's. If we were in another format, I would now give you tracks, you would challenge me and then the office. They are not words of the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont, nor of the very honorable President Quim Torra, whatever they might be, because they were presidents, they are presidents – they are presidents – with a very cultural look. They are the words of another disruptive president who has had this country, they are Pasqual Maragall, a transformer who, like you and Juntes per Catalunya, is convinced that libraries are spaces and tools for individual and collective transformation and the sum of substrates, knowledge, initiations and creativity that he gave in this quote. He will advise, before anything else, thanks for his work, for his management, for his dialectics in advancing in the descalation of culture and libraries. Very important, because they perform a compensatory function of sociocultural inequalities. I repeat: they perform a compensatory function of sociocultural inequalities. The challenge of descaling is urgent and must be – and I am aware of this – immediate. Junts' fellow member for Catalonia Ferran Mascarell said: "The most important rescue for culture is to let it work. Although the institutions are in favour of it, the health authorities are blocking the doors of culture. Until now, we can ensure that culture is safe. The first rescue starts by letting them raise the screen, reactivating it, as you always say. And obviously, with help, with well done help, well thought out, as your department is doing, counselor. The revival of culture has been one of its own and of our objectives and the declaration of sensitivity to culture and its deployment, which this Tuesday had an interesting chapter more, must be the tool loaded with reasons to continue protecting culture. Talk about libraries. The mayor of Olot, friend Pep Berga, talks about libraries like CAPs of culture, as centers of primary attention in culture. We like this way of referring to 'here's this look. Libraries are the essential basic tool that the city needs to form, to advance in the adventure of reading and to advance in this beautiful concern that is to learn and feel challenged by art, reading and letters. They are the first public tool of access and abst to culture, to reading. And now, many things are happening in libraries, so, too, to many other activities. And to the city we must be able to offer it. We have to work together because we can gradually reopen libraries and cultural spaces. At libraries, I insist, books and much more, and that things happen, that they are experimental. You, for your trajectory, know it very well. A library or a reading room is an important way of contacting reading and culture, and therefore the decree approved prior to yesterday's secure space is basic in these concentric circles of protection of culture, because they can help not to lock libraries in a future scene that we would not want. Because things happen to libraries. For example, the popular reading clubs, a way of fer culture, of sharing, of feeling questioned by artists and writers. How many reading clubs is there in Catalonia? How many registrations? Is it to say, how many men and women online during the pandemic try to be restrained or compromised with the world and with the art that a writer, for example, proposes them? Martí i Pol said: "We are nothing but words. Because things happen to libraries. Perhaps it will coincide with me that if there are equipments where we public young people, large people or users of the unmanaged culture sleep more, it is in libraries. Do we have data on participation in activities, for example? By participating in reading clubs, or do we have data to increase the number of notebooks? For this reason, during this second week, she advises, the struggle for culture is the struggle for reactivation, not to lose the professionalism in the sector and also to regain – also – the economic muscles of this sector. We can't afford to fail, get all the work done so far; we have to bet very hard to pay it back. The citizenry, moreover, is aware, is more aware than ever of the role of culture in times of pandemic, and of the company and the transformation that it does, and thus rose up to defend it publicly and legitimately. The citizens estimate the libraries. In relation to the decree establishing the hundreds of responsible cultural spaces, we believe it is a practical way to progressively expand cultural spaces. A tool that can be very useful for descalation and re-opening, the recovery of activities that affect cultural enterprises. What will libraries have to do to be part of these spaces? Will it be faulty, the libraries consortia or in the network? Let me also ask you about the activities of the Department of Culture in this amp, extended library universe, already during the first wave and total confinement, badly, or during this second wave of partial confinement. Do we have data reflecting the cultural behaviour of citizens in relation to ‘libraries'? And would they prove, these data, how the zero mileage in culture is a precious, defensive, useful and necessary? What data does the department endorse the follow-up that libraries have made to the city, for example, with so many activities of popular accountants and workshopists? Let's talk about the loan, counselor. Who was the behavior of the loan these past few months? Of course we have sectorized data, territorial data, type of documents... We know perfectly well that the prestec of the electronic book has grown during the pandemic. How do you think this loan should be consolidated and increased? Another important issue: Library Service purchases to bookstores is an important channel for helping the sector and the book chain. What help are we talking about? What increase will the year have at the end of the year respect to the previous annuality? Do we know the name of titles or volumes it represents? Obviously, his department is working on the renewal of the bibliographical foundations. With what actions? Taking into account that the role of the members on the library map has been, historically – and today – of great transcendence, I thank the work of the members, of the Barcelona Council, obviously, and of the Girona Council, I also know, and of the members in general. The cultural community is the house that has to be built for a co-governance. Coordination of administrations is an obligation. The Community, therefore, can be a very important strategic coordination for libraries with a great deal of recourse. Ask him about it, Counselor. And I'm done. This July, the Government laid the foundations for a new National Book and Reading Plan, and also created the National Reading Council, a participatory tool in the development of this plan. In what way does the experience accumulated in the management of the Covid, a complex, difficult experience, but that we go forward..., therefore, this experience, in what way can it influence this reading plan? And just as important as this: what paper should the libraries keep in this new national plan? Who do you think should be granted this paper? Counselor, so far my turn. Thank you very much. Hi, culture, libraries and independence. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.212.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, there is now the words of the Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Ángels Ponsa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.213.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselress, deputies and deputies, in fact, as we have once wanted to visualize, public libraries are a miracle of our society. They enter a public library, observe what they do and what their users do, and surely they will have a very close X-ray of the community to which this public resource serves, since the library of a middle-class population or a district of a large metropolitan city is precisely that reflex. The concept ‘public library' does not refer so much to its ownership, but to its users, that we are all, with diverse and individual needs. The public library has a foundational objective, which is to bring reading and culture, in general, to all social groups and their community. The country's public library network is a structure that includes proximity equipment. Today we can celebrate that they cover 94 percent of the territory, still illustrating that idea of Eugeni d'Ors of a new Catalonia, cultured, free, naked and happy. Today we update the objective of work for a Catalonia where the citizenry has a critical feeling and is not to manipulate for headlines. Read a lot and do it through plural and diverse readings must allow not only to have opinion, but to have criteria. To achieve a Catalonia with more free and wiser people, more reflective of themselves, more respectful of others, read for sure that it makes us some better people. In the 2008 crisis, it was possible to visualize the reinforcement of this public paper of libraries, it was a place of refuge, a place of escort, a place where people who had lost their jobs went to search for new jobs or to write a resume or, simply, sometimes, to spend hours reading in an environment that invites reading; it was a social library, it held the paper of a social library. Enguany, on March 13th of this year, 20th, the libraries had to close their buildings, and precisely for this social paper they have, therefore, did not disappear. Since that day they have been working tirelessly to continue offering their services during the first wave of the pandemic. From that moment on, the actions have been focused on facilitating the activity and keeping as many services as possible. I don't know if I can give him all the data you asked for, but I think some of us can give him. In one band, we boosted the digital tools. The first actions, therefore, focused on empowering social networks and Internet tools through the digital library, the eBiblioCat, which we have made in a universal way, of universal access. I didn't need to have a library book so I could access it. This universal access was also possible thanks to an institutional alliance between the Government of the country, the Diputació de Barcelona, the Diputació de Girona and the Assembly of Barcelona, making it possible that this alliance between the different administrations maybe..., this collaboration, in some way, sincere and responsible, was able to take the necessary measures so that it could reach the maximum of citizenship and be able to work protocols and security measures that guarantee that libraries were safe. In order to give a concrete xifra, from March 13th to May 26th of May 20th, or, in this period, a total of 264,348 prestecs were made, a xifra representing a 410_per_cent in relation to the same period of the year 19. Some figures that really give the magnitude of what all the public library service has been doing. In parallel, in this period we have donated 45,000 high to the eBiblioCat platform, representing an increase of 1,063_per_cent– it is that we donate values that are respected in the cultural world, right? – in relation to the same period of the dynou year, and more than twice as many users who were high on the platform throughout the dynou year. The increase of this demand involved the immediate contracting of more titles and more usage fees for a value of about 120,000 euros, which we have allocated to it, and also the increase of numerous documents that can be prepared per day and person. But that was possible thanks to this institutional alliance that explained them. On the other hand, we increased the offer and impulse to virtual activities from the moment public libraries had to close their buildings. The professionals of the public system – which I want to take advantage of today to put in value the professionals of the public reading system, I speak in women because they are mostly women, there are also men, great professionals, libraries in this country – quickly increased the offer of digital collections, and also virtual activities of the network. In this way, therefore, they created more than three hundred reading clubs. Data and figures that you also asked for. We have around 65,000 people who have done some activities related to digital reading. We also made a community of readers mediating the application for mobile devices, Tellfy, which came to a very young audience and encouraged reading between the young audience. We created a few communities of readers and different channels in a secure environment. We were going to participate in cultural sector initiatives such as reading at home. We also maintained initiatives that already existed, such as the Legislature has prizes – virtually, but we maintained it – the project« Write a book, the « Six years ago, sort a book, which these days are just, say, still in action. And we also continued to work with prison centers, with youth education centers, with social wards, with the same hospital in the Vall d'Hebron. At the same time, and you were also asking me, we increased the volume of purchases to help the publishing sector. We were going to double, exactly, the quantity to the publishing sector in concept, therefore, of buying books, both in català and in occità. We have allocated 3,230,000 euros, to which we have added 1,700,000 euros more than we have allocated to the municipalities for the purchase of books and newspapers. In this second instance, having declared it, as you already mentioned, culture as essential, therefore, libraries have continued to be open. Each time we can increase the percentage of use more. Today, we have also increased that percentage. We are also..., in parallel, we have not failed to work on projects of great importance, you are not familiar: there are new libraries planned, fourteen transfers of installations and new extensions. Now just at the end of the year, on the 28th, I grow, we will create the National Council of Reading, to advance in the National Pla of Book and Reading. And one thing that makes me very happy to announce, because we have been working for a long time on the entire library team, that it has been possible to have a single system of public reading, haven't we? And here, too, I want to thank all the work that has been done since the congresses, since the same meeting in Barcelona, all of us together have been able to get to a single mark with a single notebook that we approved precisely on behalf of the Government, and that includes the catalogs, which are already coordinated, and therefore we already have a unique catalog, and therefore the interlibrary library lending system will also be unique throughout the country. This is an important advance, and as the country does not have to be proud, and more so because we have done it cooperatively and with these alliances that, therefore, I believe that among all of us we are able to put in value. Let us hope that, from the 1st generation – because there are a series of schools to be saved, more administered than any other type – we can already have this tool in the public reading system, which makes us very much illusory, because, in fact, putting in value reading as apart from culture is investing in it and in the future of our infants and young people. There's a phrase from the American writer, Susan Sontag, that I like very much, which is: "A good book is the education of the color. I think it's a definition of the truth of this refuge that we often find in the books. Thank you, deputies, deputies, councillor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.214.0	Thank you, Counselor. Does the deputy want to make a reply? [[Pause.]] [[Asking the Government about public communication media]] [[300-00328/12]] Therefore, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the fifth item: the Government's inquiry into the public media in the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. In order to explain the question, Ignacio Martín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.215.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Councilwoman Budo. Well, one more time we see each other here for an inquiry about TV3, about Catalunya Radio, about the public communication media in Catalonia. As I say, it's not the first; it's possible that it's the last, the last, of this legislature. But, in any case, I do hope that some of the questions that we have been repeating, in a way, surely, with a repetition, are resorting to the length of this legislature, if not more, to find a somewhat more satisfying answer today than we have so far found, counsel. Because the truth is that many times when I arise to make this inquiry, that, I insist, it is recurrent, I have the impression that our requests, our concerns, our concerns, that they are not no longer concerns of hundreds of thousands of citizens in Catalonia, not to mention the least of 1_million, of 1_million_mig of citizens in Catalonia, and therefore of an important part of the people of Catalonia who also pay with their taxes our public media... Because when I say 1_million, 1_million_mig I do not assign votes that do not correspond to us the People, but because I believe that when we demand from this fact some political parties in our common parties, I do not assign myself votes that do not correspond to us, but that we demand from our public media that we do not vote in our own country, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties, the political parties. I'm not attributing here the representation of the half of Catalonia, but I do think it's a concern that we share many citizens of Catalonia. This is reflected, for example, in the data, that we have already quite repeated here several groups, not just our own, that most voters, people, citizens of Catalonia, who are declaring themselves voters of constitutionalist or non-independentist parties do not see TV3. I think it was the 9_percent of the Ciutadans voters who see TV3, the 17_percent of the voters of the Socialist Party of Catalonia who see TV3, who seem to me to be really sorry, attend to the reality and to the fact that TV3 and Catalonia Radio are mediums that we pay the city council of Catalonia. Well, counsel, I'd like you to give me the opinion, the Government's view on the fact that, if not, half of the Catalans can't do their own television which, systematically, tends to insult the rest of Spain, tends to do a pedagogy of confrontation with the rest of the Spanish, which, logically, generates a rebuff to these voters of constitutionalist parties, and, ultimately, to the citizens of Catalonia who pay for these media exactly as the voters of separatist parties do. Therefore, I would ask you to tell me if you believe that a constitutionalist voter may consider it normal that the main TV3 worker, who is Mrs. Pilar Rahola, should tell a MEP like Mr. Jordi Cañas that he is a limac, should tell him 'Limac' – for those who are not familiar with the term in Catalan, in castle, in the other Catalan language, drooly. I really believe that it is absolutely entrepreneurship that on a public television that we pay the citizens of Catalonia a very important collaborator of TV3 programs tells a public representative. I think that it is unacceptable, as I think it is absolutely unacceptable that a colleague also very common in TV3 programs, in this case, let's say, that she is not so well known, but in any case, it is also quite common, or Mr. Jair Dominguez, who is a presenter of a TV3 program, say such things as Spanish whore to public television in Catalonia. This is inadmissible. The truth is, they're terms that are about televisions that, let's face it, have gone into history for absolutely abject things. I don't think it's reasonable for TV3 to maintain this kind of attitude, and I say precisely, at a time when we are three_months short of elections, autonomous elections, in which the citizens of Catalonia are interested..., because we are many citizens in Catalonia who have an interest in informing us also about the national community chains, which are essentially in the castle, carried from the disconnection of Spanish Television for Catalonia, which is also in Catalonia..., but we also have an interest in informing us about the things that happen in Catalonia, also in our other language, that is the Catalan language. Therefore, it is incomprehensible and, by definition, unfair the fact that the citizens of Catalonia who pay our taxes have to accept that TV3 is a television that expels us as an audience, because it directly insults us, because many times TV3 insults constitutional voters, with its least to the rest of Spain. I insist: TV3 is public television with more condemnations for lack of neutrality and lack of respect for the political pluralism of the history of democracy. It's an inverse thing. The Central Electoral Board has condemned on many occasions TV3 not to respect pluralism, for example, to serve the nomenclature of separatist parties, in questions such as the naming of political prisoners, now convicted of serious crimes..., to name them "political prisoners. It is a distortion of language that on public television is not acceptable. Would I be on a private television that pays without you or Mr Puigdemont des de Brussel·les? Yeah. But it's not on a public television, which is a television that by definition has to be public service, and that has to respect the conjunction of the citizens who pay for it. The expression "political prisoners or exiles to refer, not to an exile, such as Mr Tarradellas or so many others in our country who have had to leave, from all Spain, the results of the dictatorship, but to a man, such as Mr Puigdemont, who has fled justice. Therefore, this distortion of language is something that I believe the citizens of Catalonia do not have to pay for. I think it is a good time to present this inquiry, bearing in mind that we have some elections in the canton. We're a few days away, weeks away from an electoral contest, and it would be interesting for you to tell me if you think it's normal for the citizens of Catalonia to think: "No, it's that I can't tell me what's going to happen to my community's election for autonomous television because its way of exposing reality is absolutely sloppy and abject. Therefore, I believe that these questions are out of the question, Madam Counselor, that you give respect to me challenged or, if not, give me an appreciation of this. And I don't want to stop doing this, to stop thinking about a question that I've already raised in my previous intervention, that it was a motion about corruption, that it's also about the statements that we've heard, the conversations that we've heard in Operation Voloh. It's not, Mrs. Madaula, yet, but I hope you've made it clear that the operation is "Voloh and no Volhov." The Voloh operation has given us the opportunity to know some conversations of Mr. Pilar Rahola in which you tell Mr. David Madí that they have already called, among others, the President of the Generalitat, Mr. Puigdemont, they have already called the director of TV3 to tell him not to give him the name of the minutes or the screen quota to the same Rahola, that it is inadmissible that it is only four days in the week on TV3, that he has to get out all that she considers opportune because to the capdavall what she is, and that he has denounced even all the professional council of TV3, is a political commission to the government's service. It's exactly what comes from these conversations, and I think that on a TV in a democratic environment, in a democratic country community like Spain, that's unacceptable. There can be no political commissioners to the third parties and to the public television programs, because in the end this is what proves that TV3 has, unfortunately, become a transmission correctness of separatist parties and an apparatus of agitation and propaganda to the service of separatism. And in the face of such an important electoral issue as we will have on February 14th, if possible, I think it is essential for the government to tell us if it believes that it is willing to do something because TV3 will end up respecting once and for all the principles of neutrality and the principles of political pluralism. I insist on the conversations we had about the Voloh operation, because I believe that the way Mrs. Rahola speaks, and so on, the director of TV3, Mr. Sanchis, who says that "they will make him pay..., but what way is this about the director of public television? That everyone here knows my differences with him – only professional, of course, I wish him the best in the personal sphere – but oysters, I find it unacceptable that a TV3 worker, a political commissioner, should say that "they will make Vincent, Mr Sanchis, pay him". I insist, from the political discrepancy: I think he is not eligible. I insist: I think it's a form of political self-governing mafia organizations. It is a way of doing politics that it is to coerce the freedom of public media in order to make a public television of a minimum quality. And this has, logically, generated an extension, a distance, a huge distance from a significant part of Catalonian citizenship, which I would like, and there is a right, too, to see the public television in Catalonia without being insulted, without being insulted, with such clear examples as I have commented, that I would very much like, Mrs Budó, that you tell me what your opinion is about the fact that TV3 is saying openly "Muta Espanya or told to the MEP of Ciutadans Jordi Cañas " limac. That, if you think it's admissible, we have a problem, because it's not a public service of quality, it's not a public television that respects the democratic principles of neutrality and political pluralism, and I honestly believe that the Government of the Generality, in this sense, should do something more to guarantee and to age for plurality and, if not, an attempt to truth the public media in Catalonia. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.216.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now you have the word, to answer the question, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.217.0	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Martin Blanco, Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, I am sure that you gave this to the principle of inquiry, with this being, I believe, three plenary sessions in which your parliamentary group brings here to debate, therefore, the subject of public media. An inquiry, a motion, today another inquiry, and, obviously, all the oral questions that have convinced. And from this councillor and from the consulting department and the department that I represent we've always been here to give answers to what you asked us. I didn't know where I was going to go in their interview today, because I always, therefore, the generic fan, about public communication media. I would remind you of the fact that she does not make a lot of time with the honourable Member, Mrs Sierra, therefore, who, asking about the communication media, practically devoted all her inquiry to talking about what she calls "an engineer, an engineer of her own language, eh? Calling–appealing–, yes, to his philologist's formation. F-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f... And, truly, therefore, we are again here, in an inquiry in which they again question the plurality and independence of the Catalan public media. And they do, so, following, as always..., and now that we're starting, it seems, so, to lie down at an election period, and therefore, I need to re-emphasize these themes around what they are, already, theirs, we could tell us, obsessions, that it's the attack on their own language, the Catalan language, and the attack on public media. In fact, I have to say: it seems to me already well, that if you ask yourself like the Government, for this reason, to come here to give explanations, that if you ask yourself, that you make motions, it is our obligation to bear fears, to debate them, to approve proposals in this Parliament, it would just be missing. Now, if I may say so, Mr Martín Blanco, you do not exactly use parliamentary mechanisms for this purpose. And that's why one day we may have to say something, we'll have to say something about playing certain games and in a way that we can do here in this Parliament. And I'm playing it, and I can't set an example, and I think the best example that I can exactly set it, and I'm not going to put it back to jail days, is his move to the previous plenary, which responded to the question I had been asked the previous week about the use of languages in the communication media. And, in fact, the honourable Member made it very clear in his intervention: that he said that he had his wife, that he had his wife, that he had her husband's wife, that he had her husband's wife, that he was the result of the previous inquiry, only one – only one – spoke of the means of communication. Mr. Member, I really thought that today, in connection with this inquiry again, I was thinking and hoping that it was an inquiry of interest to the future of our communication media. I thought that actually today I would take advantage that maybe – maybe – is the last Ple we can talk about, so, in those terms, I thought I could talk about this future of communication media. And for a moment I thought that they might be concerned about the Spanish audiovisual law's pre-project, a pre-project of law that directly engulfs our powers, a bill that engulfs powers that are also from this Parliament, and that also affect their status as a Member, their status as legislator, as a Member of this House. But, sadly, I see that this does not worry them at all. Because, listen, this preliminary draft of the Spanish law, in accounts to respond to the adaptation, precisely, of the European directive, what it does is to respond to the centralizing obsession that characterizes the different governments of the State. And, if not, how does it explain that an audiovisual communication service directive which aims to adapt the regulation to our audiovisual services, which in a few years have shifted traditional media, which ends up with this preliminary draft law and takes over competitions in the Parliament of Catalonia and, moreover, literally, makes the competitions of the ACC disappear? As if you don't exist, he's off the map. I assume that you, as a Member of this House, would tend to say or would like to say, I think, when you get it, in this case, competence to legislate on how the mandate should be set and the programme contracts of the different media levels of the public services of Catalonia, or when you get the competence to legislate on audiovisual, television and community radio services without a desire to work, and we no longer say about the cultural and linguistic diversity that the directive promotes, and that, unfortunately – not surprisingly – the preliminary draft no longer contemplates. I had hoped, Mr Martín Blanco, that this topic would also worry them, but I see that it would not; I see that you continue with your obsessions with Catalan language and Catalan audiovisual media. Look, I'll talk to him again, because I really don't think they understand it, about the independence of public media. You think we, like the government, go to the program and say what's there to say and what's there to say? Do you think we're going to decide who the Tertullians are going to be on TV? Listen to me, he told them here the other day at the control session, when Mr. Sanchis came to the parliamentary committee where Mr. Sanchis appeared..., told them that the Tertulians listened to them by the directors and directors of the programs. Listen to me, neither the director of TV3 nor the advisors and advisors of this government decide who are the Tertullians who go to the public media. The independence of public media we create and exercise. Maybe you'd do it another way if the government didn't do it. But we don't, we exercise the independence of public media. And we didn't speak actively and passively here in my appearances. And, besides, I remember, Mr. White, and you know it perfectly well, because I said it in some appearance that I have already had in some inquiry with you, that there are different types of controls and mechanisms in this chamber that guarantee the independence of public media: parliamentary control, the control of the Audiovisual Council and the control of the Audit Union. The government doesn't do the programming, I repeat, or sort out the Tertulians; the professional fans of the public media. Public media workers and workers are free to apply their professional criteria and are guaranteed freedom of expression. And the government doesn't just program it, but, besides, we don't exercise any kind of political control. This, Mr. Martín Blanco, is so, and I will repeat it as many times as I do, because this is the way this government is done, a government that believes in the plurality of public media, in the independence of public media, and, therefore, in the non-interference in public media.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.218.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, the Member has a new word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.219.0	Thank you, President. Well, dear Counselor, it's not that we say it, that you intervene on TV3, it's that you say it and all the professional advice on TV3, that you're saying that the conversations we've met with Mr. Rahola are inadmissible with Mr. Madí saying that what he has to do, or what Mr. Puigdemont has done – not what he has to do, but what Mr. Puigdemont has done – is to call the director of the chain to say, Mr. Sanchis, that he doesn't get his screen quota back. So, it's not what we say, it's what we say, huh? – don't think I'm making a shameful attitude right now, no, no: let's say – but it is that, besides, the professional advice of TV3 gives us reason, because it's pornographic, it's literally pornographic all the conversations between Mrs. Rahola and Mr. Madí, who notice, quite simply, that the Government of the Generality and the separatist parties place political commissaries to make Tertulians into the third parties of the chain. One thing that seemed especially unfair to me, Madam Counselor, but I know that it is a mantra of separatism, and I enjoin it and, quite simply, I answer it, when you say that we have an obsession with Catalan language. I don't know exactly what you mean by "obsession with Catalan language." I, Madam Counselor, and I say this with a great deal of respect, unlike you, I serve in my private life, like most of my bankers, my parliamentary group... in our public and private lives we serve indistinctly our two languages, the two languages of the Catalans, which are the Catalans and the Castilian. You, in change, Madam Councillor, when you were mayor of your municipality, when someone served the Spanish language, the other Catalan language, put the cry to the cell. Therefore, the difference between you and us is this. We do not just accept, but we encourage and are delighted with the bilingual character of Catalan society. It's the big difference between you and us, and I think that's what you have to say. Anyway, I'm telling her that in front of the election contest that we have here three months, it's important for people to know that what you say is that we are being lied to, and, in turn, I'm saying to you: you have a problem with the bilingualism of Catalan society. They want to end the bilingualism of Catalan society. We all want to end him, and we want to encourage him. And we do it because the movement is shown to be walking, we do it in our parliamentary interventions. I have never seen a deputy of Junts for Catalonia or of Esquerra Republicana making an intervention in castle in this Parliament. God save us, the lords of Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, to serve the language of Cervantes in this Parliament. It would be sacrilege. What they have done is, when some member of some constitutionalist party has served the Spanish language in this Parliament, get up from their seats and leave. This is the respect you have for Spanish language. When the couple of families who ask that their children may also receive education in the castle, they ask for this education, you are manifest, they summon demonstrations before the homes of these couples, which is very serious, to advise them to ask for the teaching also in the castle. This is the reality and I am willing to hold a debate and any of my companions – Mrs. Roldán, Mrs. Fernández, Mr. Amello – are willing to hold public debates about this position. What are you defending? Defend monolingualism in Catalonia, the manifesto Koiné. We defend precisely the bilingualism of Catalan society and trilingualism in the classrooms, simply. To clarify things, I think it's also important to clarify things. After you complain about the expression of my companion Sonia Sierra, not in this Ple – in this Ple, you are absolutely right, also in this Ple – but also in commission, about the father, you said, the father of his own language. It's what we're seeing, the concept of "own language" is a concept that, from the scientific point of view, has no logic, no sense, no bet in any other country in our democratic environment. The concept is'mother tongue', and Catalans have, mostly, as in mother tongues, català and castella. The concept "own language" is an invention that you have made, with the collaboration of the Socialist Party, to separate, tell us, linguistically, the Catalan society and tell us that the own language of Catalonia is the català, and, therefore, the castle, which, curiously, is the majority language of the citizens of Catalonia, is inappropriate. So let's make things very clear, and what is a beast, an incastle, or a monstrosity, exactly, a monstrosity, is to say that the castle, the majority language of the citizens of Catalonia, is improper of Catalonia. This is an authentic beast, and therefore I subscribe to Mrs. Sierra's words for good when she says that the fact of "speaking to Catalonia and referring only to Catalonia is a nationalist genius. It's just that it can't be any other way. Only an ultranationalist conception of reality can claim that an essentially bilingual society like ours, much in spite of separatist parties, but that it is and will continue to be, an essentially bilingual society..., cannot claim that it is monolingual and that it only has its own language. That's the question. And this is exactly the definition of "nationalist genius." [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.220.0	To make the reply, has the word now the Counsellor of the Presidency, the Lady Budo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.221.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, look, what makes you think that in my private or family environment I don't use more than one language? I think this is hurtful, absolutely. You don't know that. No, no, that's what you just said, it's hurt, I'm sorry. I have no harm in how many languages he speaks in his private environment. I don't have them with me, because I don't know, and I'd probably surprise him – I'd probably surprise him. But it's the same, we didn't come here to talk about it. Look, what I want to say to you is that it was thirty-seven years ago that created the Catalan corporation, and it was done in this same chamber. I remember – you weren't there, but – that was done unanimously. All groups of this chamber agreed that the public media in Catalonia should be highly competitive and should be a powerful tool for the recovery of language and for the recovery of national identity. And today these public media are still working with this very illusion and with the same spirit that came out of this Parliament thirty-seven years ago, when they were created. Because, Lords of Ciutadans, Mr. MP, Mr. Martín Blanco, once again, I want to remind you that public communication media are an essential instrument, they are an essential instrument for social cohesion and social progress in our country, and also – and also – for the preservation of Catalan language, which is a minority, a very minority, in communication media. You just zap and you'll see. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.222.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on responses to the health, economic and social crisis]] [[300-00333/12]] Let's move on to the next inquiry, which is about responses to the health, economic and social crisis presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. To introduce her, the honourable Member has the word Natalia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.223.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, president. Counselor, the first question is almost bound, during this plenary session we have not been talking much, but we want to insist on it: what has served the seventh crisis of government, the crisis that they came to stage in the Parliament of Catalonia? What has it been for that government to rise from the table of work on crisis measures? Who did you help, this absurd shambles? From our point of view, we believe that his attitude is highly harmful. The scienification they've had in the past has only served to divert attention. We bring yesterday, Portemel today, talking about who filters that, when, moreover, the filtering has become a modus operandi of the government. Already in the past they have used filtering as a probe of the measures, and then they communicated them formally, no longer to the people, also to parliamentary groups, to which they constantly lack, already with the decrees or already with the information on the measures that are due to end. We believe that they serve Parliament as if it were the father of a school, and we ask them to stop doing it, please. They are responsible, working and, above all, listening to Parliament, but also Catalan society, social and popular movements, trade union forces, political, social and cultural actors in our country, who have many proposals, also many complaints, but which you are not aware of. I told them in the past: leave Palau and listen to the people. They spend more time and resources to control public opinion, with electoral logic, than to control public health; more time and resources to blame the councillor for the cost than to guarantee the necessary resources because the people of this country are not directly targeted at the poor. This attitude, I insist, is extremely irresponsible, ethically reprehensible and morally harmful. In short, his electoral disputes do not even harm Juntes per Catalunya or Esquerra Republicana, it is obvious that to whom it is the workers and the workers, the sanitary and the sanitary, who are leaving their hair while seeing the spectacles that are being done here in Parliament. They also harm the gatherings, which have seen them exponentially increase the need for social assistance to cover basic needs, especially food and housing. Now, before we go down, let the writer Marta Rojals have a suggestive analysis of what she said in her dispute, which is obviously marked by the electoral context between Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, probably the people, the workers, the autonomes may not just know who this councilor is or who has more responsibility or who has less, but does she know what the people know? That the Government of the Generality is an independent government, and every disproposal of its Government is a disproposal of independence. And this – we have also told you many times – makes the project, which is more necessary than ever, lose credibility. We already knew that his government has been doing so for a long time; what we did not know was the degree of irresponsibility to which they were willing to arrive. I am sorry, I was wrong, it will not happen again. It is obvious that it is correct to accept the errors, some of the mistakes that have been made, such as Decree 39, or, in other words, the lottery of the autonomes, but it must go much further. On this decree and on help to the autonome, which failed the computer program, the web page, is no longer relevant, the difficulty is that you plan to promote competition between the autonomes. I, once we're over the autonomous lottery, we have the artists' lottery. Can we move forward with the planned aid, which has been announced, will come to an end? This morning an insufficient decree of 750_euros per artist that leaves behind the most precarious, discontinuous and indefinite part-time, temporary and intermittent workers and workers, despite the fact that the Councillor of Culture had compromised her – I ask this to you as the Councillor of the Presidency, because I understand that she speaks on behalf of the Government. Their responses to the social and economic crisis are marked by the perverse phrase 'until the exhaustion of the presuppositional endowment. Counsel, we want to ask you: why are you spending so little? Why don't they go over there and give support to the most precarious workers in this country? Will you advise, why does your government not fail to fulfill the deficit? Why don't they limit their spending skills? In the case of autonomies, for example, why EUR 20_million and not EUR 200_million? Or, in the case of cultural workers, why EUR 3,700,000 and not EUR 5 million? What's the criteria? And I imagine today will tell me that phrase that is so common for you: "It's Madrid's fault. So, miri, no. There are the responsibilities that there are, and are theirs, of their government, and I am just as much as I am of the Republican Left or of Junts for Catalonia. You are applying what we could call a new model of social protection, a field that can, which will obviously have hard consequences. That the fiscal deficit is a problem so, but in the situation that the country sees, don't you think that what is common sense is to deploy all the tools to enter all the resources that can be used to rescue people in a planned, strategic way and the result of a real analysis of the situation? For example, in accounts of applying through the law bite sanctions to the housing movement every time they are guaranteeing it, they could apply the fines to large owners who do not comply with the laws in the matter of housing and the content and regulation of the logger. We are losing millions of euros that could be spent on housing policies, so necessary in the context of the crisis we are experiencing. Do you know how many decrees you've passed since we started the pandemic? Forty decrees of the law have been approved – forty decrees of the law. Do you know how many of these forty decrees you propose measures to increase tax receipts, to solve a problem that you yourself have verbalized – and I quote literally – "the reality is that there isn't enough money? Do you know how many decrees talk about increasing resources? Cap, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, you say: "The reality is that there is no money for it, but the answer before that and the solutions never pass because who else has the most to pay. It is necessary to push taxes on high returns in order to be able to cope with social expenditure; it is urgent, I do not postpone it. When we look at the answers that are giving to the crisis, it is not that they are of the least, but that they are very far from the needs at short notice and, above all, far from the end. Since the UPC we think that it would be useful to be articulating a strategic response to eradicate the profound inequalities that exist in this country, a real economy for life, it has been named by the companies of the social and solidary economy, in which they propose a pact for an economy for life, a new production model, a new reproduction model, a new energy model. Analysis, strategy and long-term coordination. If today we know that we live in a system crossed by multiple discriminations of class, gender or administrative status and in a situation of the current capitalist system that is characterized by automation and artificial intelligence that will severely and profoundly affect labor relations, why are we not designing and studying how to apply, for example, and propose them, universal basic rendering as quickly as possible? A basic income that is a useful way to redistribute wealth, accompanied by a profound tax change. I remember that: forty decrees since the pandemic began and no decree refers to increasing taxes on tickets. Because, in the end and in the end, what we want to talk about when we talk about the answers to the crisis is about equality, but I'm not talking about the capitalist fantasy of the equality of meritocratic opportunities, I'm talking about equality, of real equality. When I was preparing this inquiry, I was caught reading César Renueles, his book Against Equal Opportunities: an egalitarian pamphlet. And there you say: the egalitarian program has never been giving everyone the same, but giving every one what they need. He proposes a suggested way of analysing whether responses, for example, to a crisis are useful or not. And he proposes to ask us if a certain help lays the groundwork to help each other, to listen to the problems of those who do not have an eye. Do you believe that a conditional aid for the "up to the exhaustion of the presuppositional endowment" is an aid that promotes equality? Or does it promote competitiveness in a menu of fam games? We, in this question, do not only ask for measures to help workers to get out of the difficult crisis in which we are, we ask them to do something in their attitude and their irresponsibility at the time of rule, so that, until the fever, we cannot be there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.224.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.225.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, let's not go in and evaluate the crisis you mentioned yesterday about the leaks. What I can tell you is that this councilman is committed to working from the government as a government. That's what I can say, and that's what I do every day. Allow me to also tell you something else, which I found missing today's mention. And I was pleased to hear, in this sense, a word from his side, from his group. Tomorrow's the deadline for the first quarter's payments, the taxes. There is no planned extension. And that's not about this government, that's about the government of the Spanish state. And yes, and as long as we have to say, and as long as we have to repeat that the Government of the Spanish State – because, unfortunately, we are still part of this Spanish State – does not give an answer to the citizen of Catalonia. Neither the de Catalunya nor the d'enplacec, but we are interested in, the ones we are ruling, it is the de Catalunya. And that's it, and I was pleased to hear some complaint from your group and some expression of solidarity with all of these people who have their dealings affected will face these payments because there is no planned extension or moratorium on the payment of these taxes. The third thing I wanted to remind you of. Miri, since March we have been ruling with a health crisis without precedents, a health crisis that we had already seen leading to a political crisis and a social crisis. We saw and said that this health crisis would, unfortunately, lead to this economic crisis and this social crisis. And in order to respond to this reality, we want an independent country. And we fly it in the form of a republic. We want a free republic, we want a fair republic, we want a sustainable republic, and yes, we want a feminist republic too, where people can develop freely, can develop with equal opportunity, as you said, and can develop with the guarantee of public services of excellence. But, in the long run, we have resources, and, therefore, independence. And that's not how it is today. And this government faces the management of an unprecedented health and economic and social crisis from seven to eight months ago. I want to remind you of the words of your colleague, Congresswoman Mirea Vehi, when we put to the vote the need for this state of alarm to be able to cope with this second wave of this health crisis. She said: "They bring us an alarm state that only talks about control, in fact, they generate a legal umbrella for the autonomous communities only to control mobility and they talk about decentralisation to the autonomous communities; but that is not sovereign, Minister, that is passing the problem to the autonomous communities. And here we find each other. And this is the reality in which the Government of Catalonia finds itself. The Government of Catalonia had to ask the Government of the Spanish State for a state of alarm so that the necessary legislative changes had not been completed in order to be able to take the same decisions without the need for a state of alarm. We asked for a state of decentralised alarm where Catalonia was the competent authority, but the reality is that we have found ourselves a state of alarm which, of decentralised nature, has nothing to do with anything. And, unfortunately, the hardest part of this state of alarm was that it did not accompany any type of economic compensatory measure for all those sectors directly affected by the management of this health crisis, because it could apply restrictive measures, because it would be that way and it could, unfortunately, affect the population in general or certain sectors in concrete terms. And you, honourable Member, know perfectly well that we in Catalonia find ourselves tied together with hands to give the economic response we want, because we have neither the competence nor the economic resources we need. Yes, unfortunately, we do not have the necessary economic resources, and we could talk about the structural fiscal deficit, etc., and the repeated incompliments on the part of the Government of the Spanish State towards the responsibilities with the citizens of Catalonia. Because in order to be able to rescue workers and workers, in order to be able to rescue self-employed and entrepreneurs, the Government of the State should completely change its social policy, its economic policy and its fiscal policy, and that, unfortunately, is not the case today. It's not just not like that, it's just that today's situation has led us to have poor workers at work to have workers who are found in an ERTO and who aren't collecting it since August 12th. Congresswoman, this is the reality with which we find ourselves managing all this. But I'll go too, and I'll talk about it, because you didn't mention it, about us being a government that rules with a decree, right? And without dialogue or consent, as Congressman Riera told us at the control session to the government, huh? You spoke: "Do you know how many decrees have been made in the management of this crisis? Forty. Yes, yes, indeed, all that have been needed, and we will do all that is needed so as to give the most immediate response and equip ourselves with all the tools that we can equip ourselves with to cope with the management of this health crisis, this economic crisis and this social crisis. But I assure you that the will is not to rule in a decree, nor is that the reality. In fact, we work day after day – and I thank him for his contributions – to find answers to overcome the consequences of this pandemic. And to be able to do all these answers many times we need to have those legal tools that are necessary, in this case, in the form of a decree, because, if not, we would not have the mechanisms to deal with it. But there is no doubt that this government works with all and every sector affected by a constant dialogue. A dialogue that has really had complicated moments, certainly, because they are not easy times for the affected sectors, nor for the citizens in general or for this government that has had to manage for eight months this pandemic, this health, economic and social crisis. But we're not just going to stick to this dialog, but I can tell you that it's the will of this one that will advise you to go deeper into the dialog with the sectors with the goal of achieving all the agreements that we make. Now, if I may, I will also make an offer to you, honourable Member, and to all parliamentary groups. We have a living and permanent space between the government and parliamentary groups to carry out a follow-up to this crisis provoked by the Covid-19. Fem-ho, because the crisis is going a long way. And this compromise will now be there and it will be in the next Parliament, it must be, because the management of the crisis will follow it in the next legislature, there is no doubt about it; that this goes on for a long time. And that's why I'm offering him, as I say, this living and permanent space between the government and the different parliamentary groups, not just his, because one thing is that we can have differences of criteria in certain measures, that I would say that this comes within the normality and political diversity of the different formations that are represented in this Parliament..., I wouldn't want it to be said that we are not continually seeking this consensus. And, therefore, allow me, honourable Member, to end with this offer. We will understand this situation and make it folded, and not for ourselves, make it all the way from this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.226.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the Member of Parliament, Natalia Sánchez, has a new turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.227.0	Mrs. Budó, thank you for your answer. I've got to tell him that he's left me bewildered. Did he come to explain that independence is the best way to make possible material conditions of life worthy for people? Home, I know that. But what I'm saying is that you are the government of an autonomous community, and that as managers of this autonomous community you are making it fatal. I'm explaining this. And if we're talking about a fair republic, I came to talk about redistribution of wealth, I've talked to him, especially, about basic income, that we'd love to be able to sister; and so on, we take the offer. Not to make a unidirectional dialog, but a dialog where we can participate, but not only parliamentary groups, but also social movements, unions, affected sectors, Mrs Budó, which for a long time I have repeated that the affected sectors are enchanted, it is public and aware that the affected sectors are flattered and are going through a bad time. And that the responses to the social and economic crisis that we are experiencing are insufficient. That if we talk about the feminist republic, we think about the "kellys" and the situation that the tourism crisis has left behind. That if we talk about public services, we talk about the outsourcings that you constantly do at Ferrovial. That if we talk about public salvation for a republic like god mana, we talk about universal sanitation and for everyone where there is no one who gets rich with a fundamental right, which is access to salvation. And they have neglected it, we also want an ecological republic, and that is why the CUP and many social movements in the territory are against macro-projects like the Hard Rock – which, of course, the CUP denounces to the Antifrau Office the management of its government, Mr. Damià Calvet and Mr. Pere Aragonès. He also told me that he would not appreciate one of the questions for which we wanted to ask him, and that we understand that you, as the President's adviser, have to give an explanation to a Member of the Parliament of Catalonia. The situation that we experienced yesterday in Parliament is worth, as in the least, to respond to me, to explain why, why we are in this situation, that I give explanations why the government is constantly on the hook and as it is struggling, it does not respond to the people's need. You talk about the republic, but what you apply is neoliberal autonomy, you apply autonomy based on outsourcing, based on weakening public services, and, in fact, many of the..., the situation in which we live as a result of the crisis of the Covid, but the situation that you have experienced, the stress that you see in our health system is a consequence of very concrete public policies. And you're also responsible, you haven't ruled in four days. And, therefore, what we are proposing is far-reaching, strategic, and not just direct aid, which is obviously better than nothing, but which generates a great deal of frustration. I understand that a person who sees the space of Convergence can think that the proposals of the CUP, like the universal basic income, are very long; but, fixin-s'hi: on April 3, 2020, the Financial Times, far from being the head of reference of the CUP, published: "It will be necessary to put on the table radical reforms that captivating the political direction prevailing from the last four decades, referring, obviously, to neoliberal policies, "governments will have to assume a more active role in the economy; they must see public servants as an inversion, not as a channel; they must seek formulas because labor markets will continue to be less secure; they must be relegated to the agenda. And he ends: "Politics considered eccentric until now, such as basic income or taxes on higher returns, must be part of the responses to the crisis. We came to talk to you about this, Mrs. Budo, and you didn't talk about this. I said, we know the tax deficit is a problem, that's right. But now and here, in a country where inequalities grow every day and where you, as the government, especially from the Interior Department, are dedicated to suppressing movement, for example, for housing, which gives answer to one of the most basic needs to which, like the Government, they have not given sufficient response, so what it is to do something else, and you did not want to talk to me about universal basic income or redistribution of wealth, nor to arrive at the expense limits, which are not coming there and are going to maintain the deficit of 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.228.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, to make the reply, you have the word again the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.229.0	Thank you, President. MP, MP, mir, we can't allow – this we can share – this crisis to pay people, huh? I believe that we can share this statement and that we would agree with it; and that the answers, therefore, are insufficient as well as I can say that I absolutely agree with it. In fact, I explained to him before the reason and the reason for this injustice that, unfortunately, the citizens of Catalonia see, and that today his solution is not, let's say, here in the canton. I have said before: we have had some tools that we did not want to use, but that the only ones have been, such as this state of alarm, a state of alarm, I repeat, insufficient, a state of alarm that at the same time allows us to manage a health crisis of a magnitude that we could not foresee, neither we nor the country of the world, because this is not a strictly thing that is happening here in Catalonia, but it is a generalised crisis, a global pandemic, also an economic and social disaster of the world, not only here in Catalonia, in which the Government of the Spanish State has not given the answer that the cities and cities of the State would need, as well as they have made other states, that in the past directly affected the economy. And to this the Government of the Spanish State is neither expected nor open its mouth nor word in this sense. Certainly, therefore, we have absolutely different country models, we share with a great deal of probability the same objective, which is that we want a republic so as to equip ourselves with those tools necessary to give the answer that Catalonian citizens need, but obviously we start with completely different country models. But, beyond that, we can share, therefore, that at these times we have a real structural problem that we cannot solve due, among other causes, to the infra-financing of the Generalitat de Catalunya. We are talking, for example, about the health system, about the health system, you mentioned in plain language now also in your intervention; and I, however, let me not forget that famous phrase by Alfonso Fernández Díaz, who said, you will remember, "We have destroyed their health system. And that's it, and still today we're not erasing the consequences. But, look, from the government of Catalonia we have also done the work, and more so, for example, to listen as Professor Guillem López Casasnovas established that in Catalonia we need 5,000 million euros more in order to be able to have standards comparable to the countries we want to compare with – this means more than 50 per cent of the assumption we have now – these data also coincide with the study that President Torra commissioned a group of thirty experts from the world of sanitation, and that you know perfectly well, to reform the health system. And among these points, I would like to value those that..., and that I believe that we would agree here with your group that it should increase, increase the salaries of healthcare professionals, as they deserve it, and that it should also strengthen primary care to give the necessary response to Catalonia's citizenship. In which we probably would not agree so much, so it is, as I said, in the model of society and in how we defend the necessary model of public and private cooperation, a model of success in our country. And I'm sure that the key to this exit from the management of this health crisis, which is also, I repeat, social and economic, will be public leadership. I'm not sure, since public leadership will be the only way we'll get out of it. But we, our group, cannot hear this public leadership if we do not understand and value, as I said, the model of Catalonian society, a solidary society and an entrepreneurial society. And it's in this model where, from public leadership, we value collaboration, as I said, public-private and social responsibility for our businesses as well. Because public-private collaboration in Catalonia must also be, and is, in the service of people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.230.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the right to a second opportunity]] [[300-00334/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about the right to a second opportunity, formulated for the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jordi Orobig. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.231.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, he was already advancing to the president who wouldn't do the same thing, which I understand everyone liked me, at times, because it's important, what we're talking about is very important, but it's also reconciling hours and family life. And, obviously, sometimes we don't really help. MPs, MPs, Constellera Capella, Asnef, Equifax – Asnef, for whom I don't know what it is: National Association of Credit Financial Establishments, of course many of those who listen to these names turn out to be completely unholy. However, unfortunately – a significant part of our citizens – they have become accustomed to living with a constant veto to making their personal, professional and vital projects come true because of the fact that they are listed in a register of laureates, and because of this, they have refused access to the credit for the fact that they have not been faced with their financial obligations on their own day. Since the financial crisis started on September 15, 2008 with the failure of Lehman Brothers and all its derivatives, there are millions of people who, all over the world, have become witnesses to it, will become protagonists in the first person of the crisis. Beyond the first consequences of the impact of the crisis, translated into loss of work or income, and, in some cases, the loss of the same family habitat, many of those and those harmed by that crisis still have not paid off today, when they have suffered more than none of them still face the impact of the health and economic crisis that we are currently experiencing. His life has passed many times between denial of access to credit, cards and tricks – many times, coactive – requiring them to pay for their debt and the submerged economy as a mechanism to deal with their vital needs, with the personal and general harm that this fact entails. It's not an exclusive situation of our society, but it's pretty obvious to us. Our legal order is fully focused on the satisfaction of the contractual obligations and, from this point of view, provides for a series of bail-out mechanisms for creditors, which go beyond the same debtor, establishing measures such as the derivation of liability, the subrogation of debts or the transmission of debts to the hereus of the deceased debtor or, if so, to the underlying inheritance. Many of these measures are primarily directed towards an apriorism: the view that the person who incurs or dies in his or her obligations is, in other words, the person who becomes debtor is due to mischief or negligence in the management of his or her business and that, as such, he or she remains perpetuatedly obliged to grieve for this fact, which, in fact, or, in fact, involves a threat of civilian death of these people. People who, even if they wish to face their obligations, are unable to do so and who see their personal and vital projects not only broken, but also their descendants, condemned to not being able to receive basic support from the family circle. The situation we are currently experiencing has a major impact on our economic fabric. It affects, and a lot, businesses. In addition, most of these companies are established as commercial companies and have legal and technical resources to deal with the competition proceedings that may arise as a result of their insolvency. A large number of citizens of our country, not necessarily autonomists or entrepreneurs, but also recent or long-lasting ones, do not count on these tools to guarantee their future. And there will be an immediate future of difficulties, aggravations for a more than predictable col·lapse of the Administration of Justice, as we find ourselves with situations such as the ERTO's fiche and that the same ones can be transformed into EROs, the fiche of the prorogations of the expiration of ICO credits and the fiche of other measures taken with a provisional character to respond to the economic derivatives generated by the pandemic. It is true that since the Government of the Generality and, more concretely, since the Department of Justice, measures have been taken to avoid this congestion and to relieve the workload of the Administration of Justice. For example, I would like to mention the obligation to mediate in the area of family conflicts or, more recently, the decree we have validated does not make it possible in this chamber to determine the percentage of income due in the absence of a pact for the rental of business premises affected by the restrictive measures of the activity; all these measures, as I have explained, which affect the willingness to lighten the workload, in this case, of the courts. From our parliamentary group, however, we believe that it is necessary to adopt new measures, which do not only prevent this collapse of the Administration of Justice, but also to ensure that, in principle, we do not face a new generation of people limited for eternity for a situation of insolvency arising from the pandemic. In this sense, in our legal order we have a law, on the 25/2015, of 28 July, of second-opportunity mechanism, reduction of the financial burden and other social measures. "The second opportunity is a concept that is very inspiring, but we have to see what it is translated into, right? Even though it is a law that already counts on a certain recourse – its approval counting on more than five years – it has not been successful or diffused with regard to its function as an instrument for the resolution of economic asphyxiation solutions for people who have seen its vital project cut off for the debts they have not been able to face. Perhaps you can see that in the same legal text, which in this case promoted the People's Party, there prevailed the will to approve the names of 'golden dreams', that tool that stands to gain access to the legal residence in the Spanish State and to which investors and other people have very possibly joined for honest purposes, but which have also served to collide among our other mafia and money launderers. Finally, the Second Opportunity Law is designed for individuals, families and self-employed professionals who cannot meet their financial obligations. The total estimate of the debts cannot exceed 5_million euros and this law allows them to benefit from partial or even total forgiveness of the debts in order to start from zero without charges. Press the dialog and transaction, as you expect more expensive consequences for creditors on the default assumptions. For this reason, it is possible, as we have said, to obtain the forgiveness of all debts, including mortgages or financing-related mortgages, for example, for the purchase of a vehicle. However, in relation to the debts to the Administration – history, social security – the pardon, that is, the forgiveness of the debts, is not total, but partial, and in these cases it is possible to obtain the pardon of up to 70_percent of the interests and sanctions, that while it represents a significant part of the debt, many times it is not enough, and it continues to condemn, in this case, the debtor to continue in this legal situation with regard to his economic activity. Obviously, personal welfare benefits, such as child support, which is necessary for their survival, cannot be the object of this pardon. And for what it does to the usual housing, there is case law that allows it to be preserved as the value of an immovable is less than or equivalent to the mortgage debt. That said, it would seem something very beneficial, but no one is wrong: this rule does not, in any case, entail impunity for the assumption of debt responsibilities. Unless a friendly agreement is reached, the forgiveness or forgiveness of all or part of the debt implies the cessation of all of the debtor's property, even if it is not necessary for the development of professional activity. And, also, in order to be able to win, that the debtor does not have sufficient resources to face the debts and that he has demonstrated to act in good faith, accredited for having tried to reach an out-of-court agreement with the creditors and for the fact that he was not found guilty in the creditors' contest, it is to say, that the insolvency was not deliberately and maliciously provoked for the same debtor. In short, we understand it as a good legal solution to face a striking reality, but also as a much better solution, precisely because of the fact that it orbits the solution over the debts acquired in the private sphere and relaxes it in the solutions of the debts contracted in the public sphere, providing for a reduction of the debts that in this area is much lower, which gives an important margin of improvement to the regulation that in this area has been done, in this case, for the State, because of its competitive title. We understand, therefore, that this regulation is a useful tool for responding to the needs of an important part of our society, and, in this sense, we would be interested to know which is the government's understanding, and more concretely the Department of Justice, for which it promotes the solution provided by the Law of Second Opportunity to solve all these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.232.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.233.0	Well, good evening. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Thank you, Mr Orobtig. As a matter of fact, in recent years the situation of insolvency and the competitions of physical and legal persons have only grown, and unfortunately, therefore, the forecasts we have on the pandemic-related table, and therefore the consequences of the Covid-19, social and economic consequences..., still suggests that it will also be increasing. As a consequence, as you explained very well, of the principles of universal property responsibility, which obliges us to respond to our debts with all our assets, with all our assets, all our present and future assets, the people who have acted in good faith but who cannot cope with their pass are to see a path without going out, since the debts that have accumulated will accompany them for life, all their lives, bringing them to irregular situations, such as the submerged economy, with another risk of social exclusion and of spending part of their lives, not to say all, therefore, in the will of society. In view of this situation, in many countries around us, lives have been articulated to protect people who cannot cope with their payment commitments and to provide them with mechanisms that enable them to free them from debt and, thus, to restart or start a new professional and personal life, and who have been named, these lives, « lives of second opportunity, as you also indicated. These institutions have their origin in the Anglo-Saxon right and become part of the European right in 2012, through a recommendation from the European Commission. They arrived in the Spanish State in 2013 and were introduced under the name‘extra-judicial payment agreement'. The year 2015 this regulation also extended to physical persons, and therefore we had entrepreneurs or legal persons, and also physical persons, within the competition law. However, we are still far from the coverage and effectiveness of these mechanisms in other countries. The year 2019 was joined to the second opportunity mechanism some 2,300 people in Catalonia, 6,200 in the conjunction of the State, a xifra that triples the processes of the year 2016, but still far beyond what is in the context of the European Union countries. In 2018, Alemanya received some 82,500 people – no distinction between physicists and jurists –; in France, almost 163,000; in the United Kingdom, some 230,000. And why is this happening? Why is this happening in the Spanish State, which has not just taken out the second opportunity? Well, it is due to multiple factors, but above all, to the fact that the state legislation, the state legislation is relatively, for a band, recently, little known, complex, very complex, in many ways better and, in particular, for which it does also – you did not point anyone – to the functioning of the system, which, above all, affects the design of the mediation and competition administration, as well as the remuneration. For all this, the year 2016 the Department of Justice, at that time commanded by Councillor Mundó, created a working group with the task of studying all lives to improve the functioning of second-opportunity mechanisms. From there came proposals for reform in the matter of second opportunity and, after all, a guide of good practices in the matter of out-of-court settlement of payments, consequent competition and exemption of the dissatisfied pass, which has been coordinated from the Center of Judicial Studies and Specialized Training, but in any case coordinated for the magistrate of the Provincial Audience of Barcelona José María Fernández Seijo. The task of this group also served to arrive at the conclusion that the Generality, while not having and not having competence in the matter of commercial legislation, should intervene in this area taking advantage of the possibilities and the exclets that it offers us to accompany the people in this process, and therefore to accompany them so that they can resume their lives, and therefore they can start again. From this conviction, the Department of Justice proposed the inclusion of a follow-up service to persons in insolvency as measured by the Pla for economic recovery and social protection developed for Coreco, which chose to include this service as the instrument of this plan. This measure will soon materialize in the creation of a second-opportunity office with a dual purpose. On the one hand, to set aside a service to accompany debtors in insolvency so as to provide them with a point of information, guidance that helps them to know the possibilities they have at the time of requesting, pushing and concluding an out-of-court payment agreement, competitive mediation or the possible benefit of exemption from the dissatisfied pass. In this way, the people affected will be able to have a new opportunity to refer, as I said, their lives and to reintegrate into economic activity while avoiding the initiation of court proceedings of competition character and the abandonment of these people to the submerged economy, with everything that this entails in the present, but also in the future. On the other hand, it would be to promote the establishment of an institutional network that allows the debtor's access to competitive mediation. Since the Department of Justice we believe that the creation of this office must be done urgently in order to ensure that the Administration can give the appropriate response to the foreseeable increase, already we have, but the foreseeable, also, increase of requests for follow-up that will be produced, therefore, surely, at the end of this year. Therefore, it is important for us that the first quarter of 2021 this office is in operation. It is also urgent for this office, among other things, to avoid collapsing the market, which obviously also sees its situation worsened, therefore, because of the situation arising from the pandemic from the economic point of view. That is why, from the Department of Justice, we encourage the approval of a program by the government that allows us to generate and create this office, equip it with personal media and materials. And, therefore, taking into account, therefore, the effects and the presuppositional resources that we have at this time. This office has to enter, as I said, in operation this first quarter of 2021, exercising the following functions: functions of information character, support, evaluation, processing, facilitation. All these services need to be articulated with a multi-channel service that will involve the creation of a citizen-friendly web portal, as well as different channels of corporate communication. Another mission of the office of the second opportunity will be the articulation of an institutional network of support to debtors who integrate the rest of the actors participating in it, from the Department of the Vice-Presidentship, Economy and History, through the different competent departments, through the chambers, through the lawyers' colleges, the Notaris Colleges, the funded entities, as well as the sub-ministers of basic services. Despite all the efforts we are making since the Government of Catalonia, we must go further. Therefore, as you also pointed out, Mr Orobtig, we need the Spanish government to do its dues. Who are the debts to be made by the Spanish Government? So a second-opportunity regulatory framework that is actually this second-opportunity framework, which confirms that the exemption of debt also affects public credit – we are talking, therefore, about credit with public administrations, tax settlement and social security shares – because, if that is not the case, if we do not manage to do so, we cannot properly say that we are before a second-opportunity opportunity of truth and before the pass exemption. So this is also the second part of this office. And, therefore, the government's involvement in the second opportunity. With the creation of this accompanying service, with this office for the second opportunity, in short, we bet, obviously, to leave no one behind and to give the opportunities that they are calling for everyone, to maintain a cohesive society, a healthy economy and non-collapsed courts. Courts that can focus on providing justice within reasonable terms. We speak neither more nor less of the creation of a new public service, not of any public service, but of a public support service that allows us to affirm that we live in a fairer and more solid society. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.234.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on government policy in relation to the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[300-00329/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about the government's policy in relation to the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.235.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon, Mr. Aragones. According to ATA, 300,000 autonomous will close in Spain in the remainder of the year. Almost 400,000 keep their activities closed at this time and eight_of_each_ten are seeing their billing significantly reduced. Specifically here in Catalonia, according to the latest data from Pimec, warns that two_de_cada_tre autonomous have a level of activity below 50_per_cent compared to last year as a result of the pandemic. We are also told that three_of_each_four have treasury problems, 70_per_cent does not know if they will be able to repay the loans, two_of_each_three show financial problems and, in addition, one_third of them have already considered closing the business. I insist that this is data that facilitates us Pimec. This is, therefore, the reality that the Catalan autonomous, and also the autonomous, are living in Spain as a whole. What did Mrs. Borràs propose, for example, for them this weekend in an interview? Well, since it has already made it very clear to us that all those decisions that have been taken since the Generalitat, also those of the pandemic, which are now, I say, the priorities, are directed towards the ultimate and unique end of independence. Do you notice the dissonance between your speech and reality, gentlemen of the Government? I mean, do you really believe that the autonomous Catalans, who don't know if they're going to reach the end of the month or if they're going to have to close, are they thinking about independence right now? Because I think they already have enough to look for life to go back to work, to feed their families, and I think they are amazed at the waste of this government, no longer in previous months or in previous stages, no, no, now, during the pandemic itself. I mean, you can't throw the crumbs out of your feast to the self-employed as you, for example, divert 15_million_and_average_of_euro from the Covid funds to TV3. Or open new separatist embassies such as Senegal, Japan and Australia. Or, for example, they spend 18_million_de_euros on that delusion, because I don't even know how to qualify it, from Catalan NASA. Or, for example, the millionaire contract with Ferrovial, which above now says they cannot terminate. Look, the crisis, unfortunately, we were talking now about the self-employed, but it is that, for example, for workers on behalf of others, so it is not that it paints very well either. In Catalonia, between August and September alone, 33,600 jobs have been destroyed. If we talk about those affected by ERTE, then look: 133,000 workers who have joined a new ERTE since the government decreed this last closure of bars, restaurants and aesthetic centers and other businesses. Look, I'm not saying that you don't have to take action, what's going on is that you guys go all the way to nothing, from today to tomorrow. It's been through the night. They say yes and, at times, no. That can't be. There's got to be more planning, not going to improv. For example, if we talk about young people, then they are again the great losers. Employment among children under the age of 25 has fallen three times as in the rest of the groups and 140,000 jobs have been destroyed in Spain as a whole. If we talk about the unemployment rate here in Catalonia – youth unemployment – it is at 33_per_cent, Mr Aragonès. And I ask you what you're doing for them. Because we need a strong government, focused on the pandemic, to look for solutions to stop the contagion, and also to stop this economic bleeding that we are living. And of course this is not what we're seeing. Here we are looking at how you throw your stuff at your head every two by three. I mean, I got stumped the other day to see how you guys got up from that government meeting where you had to decide on the new measures on the Covid, just because you got a kick, because you were angry with your partners. Listen, yes, you may have the right to be kicked, but the injured cannot be Catalans under any circumstances, Mr Aragonès. It's just that this is not a receipt, it's not even serious, that you're ruling Catalonia, 7_million_and_half Catalans that your future hangs on you, and it gives you the kick and gets up and goes. For example, you at least deigned to go to the last meeting of autonomous presidents, where Mrs Von der Leyen was present. And what did you ask for, Mr. Aragonès? Do you help, for example, to, I don't know, for young people? A shock plan? Extra funding to cope with this terrible crisis? No, no, No, no. You went there with all your squandering and took the opportunity and that the President of the European Commission was there to ask you for a referendum – a referendum. I mean, I wonder what face is left to the hundreds of thousands of workers who are immersed in an ERT, who don't know if tomorrow they're going to return to their job or lose it permanently, who don't know if they're going to be able to feed their families, those small entrepreneurs, those self-employed who've put everything into a business and who don't know if they're going to be able to reopen it with the conditions of the past because you've only been banned, when you see them coming to that meeting of presidents and, instead of asking for them, you ask for yourself. What a face you must have, Mr. Aragonès. Let's explain why Esquerra Republicana was negotiating extensions, for example, of the state of alarm. For the families, did you ask? For the self - employed, for the SMEs, for the workers? No, no, You asked for the table, the table and the table, huh? The invisible table, which is not and which only awaits you in a sort of Waiting for Godot from your absurd theater. Well, look, do you know, in the meantime, what Citizens were doing as a useful and responsible opposition, as a first party in Catalonia? Require, for example, that ERTEs and autonomous alarm status services be disconnected in order to extend what was needed. So, today we have these ERTEs and those help to autonomous extended until January, and I have to say what, which is thanks to Citizens – thanks to Citizens. And now we are also negotiating within these budget amendments to extend, at least, until July – at least – and whatever it takes. I mean, you guys, table, and us, help the workers. Do you notice the difference, Mr. Aragonès? Table; help for those who are having a bad time. Look, in what we have been doing in Spain for the past year, 54,000 companies have been destroyed, 96_percent of them small SMEs, with fewer than fifty workers. About 25_per_cent of our companies, one_of_each_four, are in a state of technical bankruptcy, 40_per_cent if we talk about the hospitality sector – very important here in Catalonia, especially in coastal areas. I, who come from the Costa Daurada, are living a real drama, but also in other parts of Catalonia and the rest of Spain. To all this, here you have to add to the flight of companies that you have already provoked with the process, and that will surely come here and deny it, but you have to take only the data from the Commercial Registry to see what, which has already made us enter this crisis, so with our very bad productive and business fabric – very bad. We've gone to a disadvantage. Well, I ask you – you, for example, are now in negotiations with Mr Sánchez for these General State Budgets – what are you asking, for example, for Catalan SMEs? Nothing – nothing. Now, what I have heard you ask is amnesty for Mr. Junqueras and for all those who broke up living together in our land. I mean, what happens, for example, to all those micro-enterprises that have been losing money for six months, without entering a single euro? It is for them that they have to negotiate in the budgets. Is it negotiating, for example, for the Catalan autonomous? No, no, You are negotiating with the Minister of Justice to see if you can lower the crime of sedition, because you have tried with the third degree, it has not come out, then, to see if you can now lower the crime of sedition a little bit and, moreover, so by the way, if you then do it again, that you are continually threatening to do it again, so it will come out a little cheaper, with that reform. Have they, for example, placed greater investment or social protection, for example, or infrastructure, in infrastructure improvements as a condition? No, no, What you have asked is to eliminate Spanish as a vehicle language in teaching, in this law that has been passed today, unfortunately, in the Congress of Deputies. Any measure, for example, that relieves families? No, no, Neither – nor – because you, of course, are lately much more likely to cover up the Voloh scandal. Much more pending than that. Because in the end we all ended up learning how Republican Left called the Moncloa to say that ‘this is how we go wrong. [[The speaker shows the chamber a full.]] Taking out the alleged corruption – look, it was the other way around – from Esquerra, so we're not doing well, are we? Call – I'd like to know who did it – to the government to warn. Screen. But, look, what I think – worse here, still – is that, with everything that's going on, with the drama that we're living, you don't have in mind all those families and all those Catalans that are having a bad time; you don't have in mind making life easier for them, but you're negotiating things that are above that go against your interests, such as, for example, not being able to school your children in the mother tongue. I mean, with this, I want someone to explain to me who they're benefiting exactly, who they're helping. Let me tell you, for example, what good measures we are negotiating in Congress in these general budgets, and if you want to point out if these ideas we give them away without any problem, because I think they are already having a little bit longer the monotheme of independence. Look, for example, we have managed to eliminate the 15-per-cent rise in corporate tax, which both the Socialist Party and Podemos did agree on in the 2019 draft budgets, which was already going to severely undermine the competitiveness of our companies. We have also managed not to raise taxes to middle classes through education and health, we have stopped that imposition on the concerted school and private health at a time when, in addition, we need all the available health resources. We have also succeeded in ensuring that the ideological and indiscriminate rise in taxes, which the Socialist Party and Podemos had included in normal labour incomes, are limited only to the highest. We have also promoted a plan to combat fraud, which I believe is more necessary than ever. In short, we have already managed to get the government out of a direct savings of 5,000_million that will remain in the pocket of millions of SMEs, self-employed people, families from all over Spain, and also Catalan families. And I ask you, Mr Aragonès – and I hope you will answer it now – what you have achieved by asking for the table and asking that the Spanish be eliminated as a vehicle language. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.236.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.237.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For a moment I thought we were on the street of St. Jerome, sincerely, because you made an inquiry in which you did not ask the Government, but that you asked the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left at the Congress of Deputies. Of course, let's just say, I don't punch Mr. Rufian. I don't know if he did it to celebrate, let's say, the anniversary of those elections on November 10, when Esquerra Republicana got to Catalonia thirteen deputies and you took two, but if we want to talk about it, we're talking about the Congress of Deputies and we're talking about some of the great hits that you always get, that there can be a pandemic, there can be no pandemic, but there are things for you that don't change, and that's a good part of your time. Some who are wrong, as they are used to doing, therefore, with partial data that helps to draw a sufficiently long picture of reality. You were talking about the state of alarm negotiations. Are the workers of the Conca d'Odena, who were unable to accommodate a temporary disability when there was a perimeter confinement? What was a modification agreed with the Republican Left? Not limited only to the Conca d'Odena, because any better for a worker, as it happens, as it happens, as it happens in Catalonia but as it happens in the rest of the State, for us it is a good result of a negotiation. So, for example, this is one of the things we negotiated. But, I insist, if one day you want to make an inquiry to Mr Gabriel Rufián, vaginate the Congress of Deputies and they will have the opportunity to do it there. In any case, I am here as a member of the Government of Catalonia, and what I will explain to you is the work we are doing with the collections affected by the economic situation, for the Covid-19, precisely, therefore, like the Government of Catalonia. Allow me, though, to deny him some things. You say we've allocated 15 million to TV3. No, no, We're destined... no, no, there's a... like all the public enterprises that saw their tickets drop and compensate them for not getting into a deficit, which would also have to cover the generality of Catalonia, so they make up for a part of the entrances. In fact, we have allocated less money to compensate for the loss of TV3 admissions than you have intended to compensate for the loss of Andalusian television admissions, where you are ruling. Also, precisely, they denounce them where they make it serve for those Covid funds of fall of entrances. But anyway, let's go comparing. I suppose doing this with a public company in Catalonia is an exhibition of Catalan separatism and that we all deserve to be in prison; when you do a similar thing from the Junta d'Andalusia, then it's a good management. Well, anyway, it's a way of having some prejudices that I think they don't honor what it should be, so a good political argumentary like you could do here. They've taken back the famous embassies. I recall again that the presumption of external delegations of the Government of Catalonia is inferior to the presumption of external delegations of the Junta d'Andalusia. Go on, anyway, you know it perfectly well, don't you? And to the President of the European Commission, what I have put forward, in substance – in substance – is the need for European foundations, the stimulus, which is a great step forward – is a great step forward – from the point of view of European construction, but it is also an agile response, despite all the difficulties that it finds – now itself, therefore, it is in discussion for the opposition of Hungary, Poland, respects some of the conditionalities that are to be put on this ground, in this mechanism of recovery and resilience –, it is a great opportunity... And, in fact, it's an opportunity that Catalonia needs to take advantage of, and what we want is for Catalonia to take full advantage of it, and so that we can manage these foundations from Catalonia, and explain the potentialities of the Catalan economy, precisely, to take advantage of it. That's what we explained, basically, to Mrs. Von der Leyen, to the President of the Commission. And, obviously, I explained why I was there and I wasn't President Torra. Because in the same summons there was a list of presidents and one that is not, and that, in any case, exercises some functions according to what you foresee the law of this Parliament, and I had to explain it. I think it's polite to explain what you're doing in a place where, in principle, it shouldn't be you. With what I did in English, some president to whom you give support, like that of Castella - La Manxa, was disturbed because it was the idiom of a country that wants to leave Europe, making sure that Mrs. Von der Leyen made the intervention in English. But well, in any case, things of Spanish nationalism, which are also these prejudices that you share. In any case, measures that we have brought to an end – measures that we have brought to an end. Miri, fixed only in these later weeks: 125_million euros of social emergence with extraordinary contributions to the Bank of Foods, to the Red Cree, for basic food needs; to support the basic areas of social services, with an increase of the program contract, with joints; also to give response to sensillarism, that people living on the street are always in a situation of vulnerability, more in time of pandemic, and, obviously, the need to extend the guaranteed return of citizenship. We have pushed a law decree – which you reject – so that no one can be called, with the margin we have, and probably imperfect, not everything we want, but, as a minimum, we believe that we can give an answer from our competitions. One question: you have talked about taxes and big measures, but the people who have been in an ERTO during this year, and who will be there during this year, the year came many of them – many of them – are forced to submit the IRPF statement with a fiscal penalty, which this House, at the government's proposal, yesterday, because it was a law decree, so we established a deduction to eliminate this fiscal penalty. And I support the locals, I support the gatherings. You, who have a presence in the assemblies – the one that has given you the citizenship to Catalonia, in any case – so I suppose you can value it: a programme of up to 120_million euros in the year 2020 and 2021– 20, already, the one that remains until the end of the year – so that the locals, the assemblies, can have this support of the Generality, because they are in the first fight against the pandemic of the Covid-19. Forty million euros in a first tranche of hostel assistance, complemented by 50 more than other sectors affected by this virtually total suspension of activities. Also, therefore, the law which must allow the foundations to be laid for a reduction of 50_percent of the logger of the affected premises, and, therefore, we have continued; 17.2_million euros in the cultural field. So, I mean, we don't stop here, and we don't stop here because the needs are many. I don't stop, go on. In these moments we are well advanced as it will be, therefore, this permanent mechanism of support for self-employed workers, because it is obvious that with a subsidy or a timely help of emergence any government is short and we too have remained, and therefore a permanent and continued support mechanism, agile, that we do not have to expect a resolution of a request that comes to the end of the seven or eight months, but an agile mechanism, and that we will therefore put the first steps, the coming week, and that will have a very significant presuppositionary endowment. Therefore, we will not stop in any case, and we will not stop in the health care management of the pandemic. And, in this sense, today we have presented what this reopening plan is that in the end it is a management plan of how to live with Covid-19 in the next two months. This reopening plan provides for flexibility, starting on the 23rd, of restrictions. There are still restricted activities and, in fact, today we have listened to criticisms from sectors that believe that it is not just that there are still activities that are restricted, but that we do so because it is still essential to limit social interaction, which is the route of transmission of this virus. We're people, and when we relate, if we're carriers of the virus, we can spread it. These measures, therefore, which we have before us today, must be accompanied by maximum social responsibility. They will be able to re-open, with hourly limitations, with limitations of expansion, activities from the field of the hostelry, from the oci and culture, also activities related to the field of education, and further it is foreseen, if epidemiological data accompany it, a reopening of the commercial centers, obviously, with limitations of expansion, as it cannot be in any other way. With this, what we present is an evolution also by trams, that we believe that this gives security, gives security because, through the indicators, and sees the evolution, with transparent data that are, therefore, anything can see if it was way to make the restriction more flexible or to maintain the restriction or to tighten itself. Therefore, we here are focused, we are focused, we are focused, and we will remain focused, because our priority is health and it is people's work. Thank you, Mr President of the House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.238.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make the reply, the Member has the new word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.239.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, Mr. Aragonès, you were telling me that if I'm willing to ask Mr. Rufián. No, I am asking you, because it is you who are here making those decisions; it is you, for example, who went to that meeting of autonomous presidents there to degrade the image of Catalonia before the world. You had nothing else to do that day than put yourself there to ask for a referendum and, in your opinion, to give explanations of why you were not Torra. Torra wasn't just there because it turns out she committed a crime of disobedience. Point and end. And the rest of the autonomous presidents were there because they respect the law. Leave yourself with so much victimism, really, because there comes a moment that doesn't even hang. So, you were there on behalf of all the Catalans and, instead, I insist on asking for help for us, for the Catalan families who are having such a bad time, you again asked for yours, as always. And, honestly, I don't care if you did it in English, Spanish, Catalan or Mandarin Chinese; it was embarrassing what you did there. Because you were representing all Catalans, not just Republican Left, not just the separatist sector, all Catalans. And I, of course, and many Catalans, did not feel represented, and what we felt was shame – shame – at that meeting of autonomous presidents. And it was you, not Mr. Rufian, and that's why I'm asking you. [[Some applause.]] I tell you more: does it seem normal for you to announce, as you did, aid, as if you were going to save all the autonomous Catalans, and then humiliate them, and then have them there hours in front of the computer waiting to see if they were lucky and could be one of the ten thousand lucky ones? Does that seem normal to you, Mr. Aragonès? That is, in Catalonia there are more than half a million self-employed people and you have granted ten thousand aid. Which is a 2-per-cent. With what they're going through, Mr. Aragonès. How do you do that to them? Honestly – sincerely – in what companies have you worked in which you have seen that so efficient criterion of "save whomever you can? This, you, where have you seen it, Mr. Aragonès? And he was telling me here, when I brought him out to shine those 15_million_euros that have given TV3, "you have to make up for the losses to public companies. And to the private companies you have closed, who compensates for their losses? Who Helps Those Self - Beings? Who helps those small businesses that have put everything into those businesses, probably the lifetime savings and who now don't know if they're going to be able to open the blind, if they're going to be able to stay in their business? Who helps them? That you, for example, gave me the help of Andalusia. Do you know what's going on? That is that in Andalusia we have not closed the business in these weeks; it has not been necessary, for whatever it is. I don't tell you... well, the virus, then, goes as it goes. But it didn't have to close there. Then, there, then, we must not compensate, I insist, for these losses that these companies have had, not to mention the number of workers, which I have told you before: 133,000 people in an ERTE only in these months that you have closed the bars and the restoration. That it is very good that you follow the policy of Andalusia. As I see that you follow it so much, you will be clear that the management or performance of Andalusian delegations abroad does not seem at all like what you are doing. First, because we respect all citizens. Second, because we're not going around attacking Spain. And third, because we are not selling the lies of nationalism, as you do with everyone's money. It has absolutely nothing to do with it. You, for example, have not said something here today that is obvious, you have silenced it because it is not good for you, which is that, for example, if you removed your chiringuitos, parallel structures, duplicities, plugs, toes, we would have 900_million_of_euro more with which to help all Catalans. So stop making excuses for a bad payer, huh? That there is no money, because you have money for what you want, for what you want, for that there is money. And I tell you that these improvisations and false hopes that are creating in these needy families, it seems to me that it is very cruel, Mr Aragonès, very cruel, what they are doing with them. Look, the pardons, the persecution of the Castilian, independence, this scandal now of alleged corruption, which, in addition, splashes directly to your party, Republican Left, or that referendum that you are asking so happily everywhere, that, neither saves lives nor saves jobs. Nothing at all. That is what he does, then, only to feed a few, who, curiously, are the usual, the usual with you, gentlemen of the Government. Look, let's go back, for example, to the general budgets of the state, that I know you don't like it, but that's where economic policy, shock policy, recovery policy is negotiated... You told me to ask Mr. Rufián. So ask Mr Juan Marín, because what I am talking about here is this negotiation in Congress with the government, which affects all Spaniards, and therefore also all Catalans. There we have presented a series of measures, over 300 measures, in the form of amendments to those budgets which are obviously thinking of the most needy in those sectors most affected by this crisis. And, as I told you before, if you no longer have any help, we give you these amendments, you copy them, you implement them, we really don't care, it's not about putting on medals, it's about helping Catalans. And I tell you that with Citizens, and we have shown it like this, they win all Catalans. Now, with separatism they only win Junqueras and those involved in that case of alleged corruption, because that's what Republican Left calls the government and tells it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.240.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.241.0	... "not that way. I'm done, I'm done, Mr. President. Just one last recommendation: leave so much table and take care of the chair, which we do not have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.242.0	The words of the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.243.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congresswoman, you're making a tough opposition. I think they could work for themselves, but that, in any case, each of them has its own perspective. And maybe I'm wrong, but they'll tolerate the criticism a little bit, they'll tolerate a little bit that we beat them up, because they've been beating up some arguments and you've tried, let's say, go, all the battery of arguments that they always do, that they could renew a little. I think they could renovate a little, don't they? Then we'll talk about the general assumptions of the State, because you insisted..., and you said one thing you're right, you say: "That's where economic policy is decided, and that's where the truth is decided. Yeah, because they're a summer, which is why we want to be, too, and we want it here to decide the real things. And you deserve the government of Catalonia and you think it's... well, you think it's a shame that we explain the political position of this government of Catalonia, but this government of Catalonia has approved it in this Parliament, chose it in this Parliament. He chose the President of the Generality, who appointed this government. And this Parliament represents the majority of Catalonia's citizens. And for that matter... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So very well, congratulations, first strength, but they were not able to get enough support from the rest of this plural and diverse Catalonia's forces. You have only stayed with your racket, meaning and very important, but insufficient to be able to rule. But that's what it is, you always tell us the laws, the laws, the laws, so our law... what does the Statute of Autonomy say? So the Presidency of the Generality is the one that has more votes from the deputies of this chamber and gets more votes, not the one that was first in a few elections, with thirty-six deputies, that is to say, thirty-six deputies out of 135. That is why we need to agree. You'd rather stay on the hook. Well, so, listen, it's his option, and I guess his voters will judge whether it's worth pursuing them by voting or not. You... there are some things that I recommend to you that you review: when you say 900_million euros of "singlinguites, guinguites, let's say, that... And, of course, I have all the expenditure on computer applications, all the expenditure on information systems, which in any organization, small or large, are essential. In fact, it's one of the expenses that at the most corporate level is growing faster and more likely to grow, because it's what allows us to move forward in a better administration, in the best of processes, in an excellent management of data... You, in the assumption of the Government of Catalonia, claim that the CTTI is swallowed in most of the parties, and that means leaving the choices without computers, because, of course, the computers buy them from the CTTI; it means that they can't use applications for all online processes. You have always come here, "Electronic Administration, so, look, the Electronic Administration is doing with this. The other thing is that you're fine with the argumentary, but I think we need to be a little more serious, honestly. And then you explained very well the general assumptions of the State, didn't you? , the illusion that they do all the things they must have worked for, is fine, and all the parliamentary groups have done it. And the discussion of the reviews, therefore, will also have aspects that are strictly presupposed and political aspects. Because, of course, it seems to you very badly that we, as independents, defend the independenceist political agenda; in change, you pose as a condition for the general assumptions of the State that that theme that has been granted to shield linguistic immersion is withdrawn – now it seems to me that it has already been fucked up, that condition. So, I don't know, I mean, of course, it turns out that his ideology is good, his ideology is valid, his ideology is not legitimate. Listen to me, his ideology, his proposals are legitimate and they will already have the support he needs; it's not mine, and it's antipodes, but it's legitimate, I recognize them. They have the right to make their proposals, we have the right to make our own proposals, don't we? And I think that's absolutely fundamental. And how do you think that where we govern the independenceists, we don't have the right to do the policies that we think are appropriate and you do, they come to the paradox of saying that, of course, the delegations of the Generality to the outside political fan, a political fan, because they defend that Catalonia can vote for the future policy of the country and can vote in favour of independence. On the other hand, when you, from the delegations outside Andalusia, said that you were going to subsidize to take castle courses in Catalonia, as if you could not learn the castle in Catalonia..., go on, that even the Federation of Andalusian Cultural Entities in Catalonia told them that they were misguided, that it was a way of dividing, and that it was, above all..., that you did it because at least you gave up before Vox, as you have done again, yes, in Andalusia, today you have granted the premise with the extreme right, the premise andalusus for the year coming. I don't think it's very good for Andalusian citizens. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.244.0	Thank you, Vice President. Finish the debates, we'll call for a vote. [[Long break.]] All right, so let's get to the polls. Before starting them, the record that today's ninety-two Members and Members have delegated their vote, they have joined the telematic vote and twenty-two will vote face-to-face. [[Decree-Law 39/2020 of 3 November on extraordinary social measures to address the consequences of the Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[203-00062/12]] First of all, we vote on the agenda item, which corresponds to the validation of Decree-Law 39/2020 of 3 November of extraordinary social measures to deal with the consequences of the Covid-19. The vote begins. The decree has been validated by 66 votes in favour – corresponding to 46 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – against 65 abstentions. I'm responding now to ask the chamber... yes? [[Pause.]] So let's vote if this decree is dealt with as the bill. The vote begins. This decree will be dealt with as the bill, since there have been 69 votes in favour, 62 against – correspondents to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – with no abstention. [[Motion for a resolution on the holding of a specific debate in committee on the Next Generation fund (continuation)]] [[250-01572/12]] We now vote on the eighth point, which is the Motion for a resolution on the celebration of a specific debate in committee on the Next Generation Fund. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into social policies to address the crisis of the Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[302-00257/12]] We are now voting for the motion following the government's inquiry into social policies in order to face the crisis of the Covid-19. I am referring to the separate votes which have been asked for, and we shall vote in the first place on point number 1. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 52 votes in favour, 62 against – corresponding to 42 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – 17 abstentions. We're voting for the fifth point now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 127 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting point six now. The vote begins. This point has been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 66 against – corresponding to 46 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – with no abstention. We're voting 9 bis and 12 bis points now. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes in favour, against 62 abstentions – corresponding to 42 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. And we're voting now on point 13, letter d. The vote begins. It was adopted by 91 votes to 40. We're voting point 13 now, e-letter. The vote begins. Well, now, along with the results of this vote, I'm told that there's a vote that's not computing well, that's Mr Solsona's vote. So let's stop and try to solve it. In any case, I propose to the House that, since there has been no vote that I have danced for a vote, not to repeat the votes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Do you agree? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, it went by one vote, but it would add, I understand, to the positive vote. Therefore, the serious difference of two votes. It's not that you're tied up, it's that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We'll vote this point, and the rest of it, if it looks like it, we'll keep the votes for now, okay? In any case, let's first settle Mr Solsona's vote. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. So let's vote. Before we proceed, we shall vote on the sixth point of this motion, which was where this small difference of one vote had occurred. So, we vote on the 18th item on the agenda, that is, the motion following the question to the government about social policies so as to face the crisis of the Covid-19, okay? Yeah? [[Pause.]] We're voting this one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 68 against – corresponding to 48 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics – with no abstentions. Come on, move on, move on, move on, We were at the top of this young man. Therefore, we vote on the tretze point. The vote begins. It has been approved by 97 votes in favour – corresponding to 77 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against 36 abstentions. We're voting on the 14th point now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 77 votes in favour – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – 36 against, 21 abstentions. We're voting on the 15th point now. The vote begins. It was approved by 77 votes in favour, against and 57 abstentions. And we are voting now for the rest of the points of the motion that have not been voted on. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the impact of the health crisis on the productive sectors (continuation)]] [[302-00258/12]] We now vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the impact of the health crisis on the productive sectors. And, in accordance with the separate voting petitions, we vote, first of all, points 1, 4 and the encapsulation of point 6– 1, 4 and encapsulation of 6. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of point 6, letters to and b. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point nine now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 105 against – corresponding to 85 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. We're voting point 10 now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 65 votes in favour, 4 against and 65 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into coordination with the local world during the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[302-00259/12]] Let's now vote on the twenty-one point, which corresponds to the motion following the government's inquiry into coordination with the local world during the Covid-19 pandemic. Let's start by voting point one. The vote begins. It has been approved by 69 votes in favour, against, 65 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. And now we're going to vote points 2, 4 and 18. The vote begins. They have been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. We're voting point five now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 94 votes in favour – corresponding to 74 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against, 40 abstentions. And we're voting now on the 10th. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. We're voting point 19. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the impact of the Covid-19 on the local world (continuation)]] [[302-00264/12]] We now vote on the twenty-first point, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the Government on the impact of the Covid-19 on the local world. In the first place, we vote on points 1.1 and 2.5– 1.1 and 2.5. The vote begins. These points have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, no against, no abstentions. We now vote on point 1.2 – 1.2. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. We're voting point 1.3 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour – corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 57 against, 8 abstentions. And now we're voting points 2.1 and 2.2. The vote begins. They were approved by 109 votes in favour – corresponding to 89 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics –, 17 against, 8 abstentions. And now we're voting points 2.3 and 2.6.1. The vote begins. They have been approved by 117 votes in favour – corresponding to 97 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 17 against, no abstention. We're voting point 2.6 now. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.4. The vote begins. It has been approved by 117 votes in favour – corresponding to 97 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against 17 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 2.7. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour – that are 73 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – 40 against, no abstention. And we're voting now on point 2.8. The vote begins. It has been approved by 98 votes in favour – 78 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against, 36 abstentions. There are no more places to vote for this young man. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into mental salvation (continuation)]] [[302-00260/12]] So let's move on to the next point of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the question to the Government about mental salvation. Let's vote, first place, point 2. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. We now vote on points 4, 5, 6 and 9. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into primary care (cont'd)]] [[302-00263/12]] We now vote on the twenty-three point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into primary care. We vote, first of all, points 1.b, 1.e and 2.a. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting points 1.c, 2.f and 2.h now. The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face and 20 telematics. We're voting now for point 2.g. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. It has been approved by 109 votes in favour – corresponding to 89 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – against 25 abstentions. And we're voting now for the rest of the points of this young man. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into corruption in the Administration of the Generality (continuation)]] [[302-00261/12]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into corruption in the Administration of the Generality. We shall vote in the first place on points 1, 2, 8 and 9. The vote begins. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.245.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...has asked, or, if not, should have done so, separate vote from points 8 and 9. I mean, 1 and 2 for one gang, 8 and 9 for the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-19-6602.246.0	All right. So we vote, first of all, points 1 and 2, and we will vote after 8 and 9. That's it, huh? [[Pause.]] All right. So we vote 1 and 2. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 52 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – 17 abstentions. And now we're voting points 8 and 9–8 and 9. The vote begins. They have been approved by 69 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, no abstention. We're voting points 4 and 6. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 65 against – corresponding to 45 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – 12 abstentions. We're voting point five now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 65 votes to 69, with no abstentions. We're voting point 10 now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 69 against – corresponding to 49 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics – 8 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the points of this young man now. The vote begins. They were rejected by 65 votes to 69, with no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the management of prison services during the situation generated by Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[302-00262/12]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the management of prison services during the situation generated by Covid-19. The voting on points 1 and 3–1 and 3 begins. The vote begins. They have been approved by 77 votes in favour – corresponding to 57 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 57 against, no abstention. We're voting points 2 and 4.a now. The vote begins. They have been approved by 93 votes in favour – corresponding to 73 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 41 against, no abstention. And now we're voting point four, letters b and c. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting now for point 4.d. The vote begins. It has been approved by 90 votes in favour – corresponding to 70 delegates and face-to-face, 20 telematics –, 4 against, 40 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 4.e. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. There are no more points to vote. Therefore, the session rises.
