ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.1.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. The session begins. Before starting the order of the day, I must say that, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, questions with an oral answer in the House will be substantiated at nine o'clock in the morning. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] To continue and to compliment the motion 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, from the beginning of 2020 until now there have been 1,054 victims dead and disappeared to the Mediterranean. [[Discussion on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia]] [[255-00019/12]] Let's move to the second point of the order of the day, which is the debate on systemic and institutionalized structural corruption in Catalonia. In accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate shall be governed by the provisions of Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons. As this debate was called for by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, first of all, it has the word on behalf of this group, Mr Carlos Carrizosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.2.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, someone may think that it is an anomaly to celebrate a full of corruption in the midst of the global pandemic, and it certainly is. I doubt that there are many countries in the world in which we have to celebrate fully against systemic and institutionalized corruption, as the title of our monographic plenary, convened by Ciutadans, says. It is rare that in a country that is suffering like us, of those who suffer the most in the world, the scourge of this pandemic, we have to stop for a moment and we have to make a full against corruption. The mere fact that we have to talk about corruption already denotes the gravity and extent of this scourge in Catalonia. Corruption is serious. We are used to headline things and then on the basis of repeating they seem not to have the gravity they have, it seems as if in some way we will get used to breakfast every two by three with new news that have to do with corruption in the management of the public thing. But it is that when people, when citizens, are experiencing it worse, corruption offends consciences twice. It is very difficult to hold a citizen's gaze, when they know about corruption, because people do it wrong, they do it wrong to arrive at the end of the month and they think they have an extractive political class, which when it comes to the corruption of other political parties points to them, and when it comes to corruption in the parties themselves they look elsewhere. Therefore, the interest of this plenary is not only that of the people, the citizens, it is not only the explanation that we owe them as politicians, that we are concerned about the issue and that we want to make proposals so that corruption in Catalonia does not continue like this, it is not only that interest in the citizens, to which we mainly owe ourselves, but it also has to be a selfish interest of the political class. And you understand the term 'egoism' used here: it's that you can't see us so badly, gentlemen, it's that we don't want you to point us out as politicians as if you were supposed to be corrupt. It is that I am convinced that Mr Aragonès, or Mr Iceta, who is not, or Mrs Albiach, who is not, I am convinced that they do not profit improperly with politics – Mr Aragonès, I also tell you –, I am convinced that you are honest people. I am convinced that the leaders of the parties, in general, are honest people and that they are not profiting, just like the vast majority, not only the leaders, but also the vast majority of politicians who exercise politics. The main criticism that can and should be made to political leaders is that they look elsewhere, that having an opportunity to improve things let's not do it, is that when we have to talk quietly. That is the main criticism that can be made to politicians, and as we will unfortunately see here in Catalonia, we have a certain lack of political courage to face the scourge of corruption. Look, everybody's looking somewhere else. We will speak more specifically throughout this speech, but Mr Aragonès, of whom I say I do not think he is a corrupt person, Mr Aragonès looks elsewhere when there are talks from his Government, from members of his Government, with public contractors, with people who set up ghost companies to profit in the midst of the pandemic. And you shut up. And also silenced Mr. Iceta, who did not want to come, so I see, to this session, when Ciutadans was speaking, as proposer of the plenary, he did not want to come as head of his group, but we are asking him these days to rule on the alleged corruption that has jumped to the media from the mayor of Hospitalet, the PSC. Or also Mrs. Albiach, in Podemos. They have their corruption, too, they have their funding scandal, with the Neurona affair. Your party is imputed. But they say that it is that Mr. Pablo Iglesias and Mr. Echenique figure that it is that the judges investigate them because they are very bad and want..., they are anti-system, the judges. So, that's why they investigate them and do nothing to clean up their game either. You, from Esquerra Republicana, I have already told you, Mr Aragonès, but you have much more serious things, which is the management of the process, that for you with the stellate..., that seems to be not corruption, to spend everyone's money on things that are not properly corruption, but that result in corruption and that result in misuse of public funds. For you, like Esquerra Republicana, I think you should answer, and you especially, that you have been in the Economics Councillor, and you especially, that was the number two of Mr Junqueras, convicted for misappropriation of public funds and for the use of funds earmarked for social affairs in the Supreme Court ruling – for misappropriation. Condemned, let us remember, not only by sedition, but by embezzlement of public flows. You're looking the other way. The same is being done by Mr Batet or Mrs Budó, who is not here today, the Vice-President, with the scandals that affect the financing of the process and which are hanging from their respective parties. Therefore, here there are always those who have some reason to shut up: either it is the ideological process, or it is that the scandal of the achievers affects my party, or those who are lined up and the deputies that are here – to which I will then refer – who are involved or investigated or members of the Government, of the General Secretariat of Sports, also investigated. It looks to the other side, quiets and tries to move forward without hinting that, in the environment of the same parties, they are producing enrichments and diversion of money that goes towards everything..., that should go towards the citizens. I therefore believe that there is a great deal of damage to the image of politics and institutions, as well as an emerging damage to citizens because of corruption. When, as I meant at first, we are in the midst of a pandemic; when thousands of human lives have been lost; when thousands of jobs are being lost; when thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Spain, those that shaped the backbone of the Catalan economy, are suffering to remain open and to preserve jobs; when opportunities for the future and reconstruction of Catalonia are at stake and we have them here around the corner and we need European funds for reconstruction; when the Catalans are suffering a real agony to get out of it and to get to the end of the month; with waiting lists for dependency..., we are the autonomous community that died the most on waiting list for dependency registered until November, which means that people who were creditors of dependency subsidies... have died 13,134 people without..., have died on waiting list. We are the autonomous community that most people had on this waiting list and that have died. There is a 40_per_cent increase in demand from the Food Bank. Twenty-six per cent of the workers in an ERTE were in Catalonia, as the restrictions applied in the second wave have led to an increase in the number of cases. These are 196,359 Catalans in ERTE, one of the four of Spain's total, which amounts to 746,900 workers. And the forecasts continue to be very worrying in the coming months. They're not gonna give us a break this atypical Christmas. And that is the situation: while we are doing this Plenary to prevent the resources from being diverted, to avoid continuing to defraud the Catalans, we have to do this Plenary, because before, in the time of Pujol, it was continued by Mas, because it was stolen and in this way the party was financed and some profited. There's already been convictions about them. These are facts that are judged and, therefore, we all know that. But today, apart from people getting rich, and apart from the irregular financing of some parties, there are already people living in the chiringuitos and they are the living people of the process. And here we know, for example, that there are friends of Mrs Borràs who get contracts because they are friends of Mrs Borràs. Or in this very Parliament we have a Member, Mr Dalmases, who is being investigated for diverting funds from the international cooperation of the Barcelona Parliament. Barcelona's deputy presiding over Mrs Núria Marín, who is..., these days she has been arrested accused of an alleged misappropriation of public revenues. These games... also the Secretary General of Sports. And the parties responsible for these people, the comrades, their comrades, the leaders of those parties do absolutely nothing, while the Catalans on foot are breaking their backs to work with all sorts of uncertainties. But here we maintain an extractive elite that gives contracts and prebences to their friends on behalf of the Catalan Administration. How can we demand economic sacrifices from Catalans in times of crisis when they are breakfasting, day by day too, with a corruption scandal? This has medieval dyes, gentlemen. This reminds us of when the mighty and the nobles could hunt in private quarters and there was no one who was not the nobles or their friends. For you, of the Catalan Administration, have made a_meaning of life for some extractive caste that you have been leading for a long time. Where does the money come from, for example, for that solidarity box that pays the fines and finances of those who hit democracy? That is not believed to be anyone who comes out of contributions of five euros of disinterested people, but who comes out of donations from entrepreneurs to whom you, gentlemen of the government, give public contracts and which cost the process and cost Mr Puigdemont's good life. That's corruption. What is Platform for Language doing in Brussels? Those who spy on children in schools to find out if they speak Spanish, or harass trade workers, often of foreign origin. What are you doing there in Brussels? Well, they're probably financing Mr. Puigdemont's adventure at Waterloo. How long has this Platform been taken for the language of whistleblowers and coerced people? How much did he take? Well, look, it took 3.7_million_of_euros of public grants between 2012 and 2018; that is, since the beginning of the process. And to saint of what an advertiser forgives an invoice of eighty_000_euros for the One of October, that the prosecutor was amazed when asked him: "And did you not ask if they would pay eighty_000_euros? Hey, I lose 80 grand and I get a hit. For the publicist did not give an attack because it turns out that he did forgive eighty_thousand_euritos to the Catalan administration, but then it turns out that he takes 8,2_million_de_euro in millionaire public contests. Their model is that of moral amigoism, while there are workers who have remained in unemployment, waiting lists for an operation or small businesses that pass them canuts to pay taxes. And look, it's the vast majority of honest Catalans who don't live from the friendship of a counselor. They are the vast majority of the honored Catalans who do not take a half-million euro that the budgets give to the chiringuito of the ex-director of the CUP Adam Majó, who is a chiringuito that mounts him and inflates him half a million euros to say that the Spanish State is super evil and is violating all our freedoms. What's that cost, five hundred thousand? Whatever, free bar! Five hundred thousand for the leader of the CUP. To all Catalans who do not take a_euro of the 2_millions taken by the Diplomat, a chiringuito who collaborated in the coup de 2017... Or Catalans who do not take a_euro of the more than 6_millions_and_half of the separatist embassies abroad. Or all the money, which is 14_million, from the CNI that you have assembled to set up a digital republic. Or those who, well... that is, all the Catalans who, in the end, are contemplating how the Catalan administration is filled with holes by which the money that always flows the same fields, the fields of their friends, the fields of separatism escapes. And in Ciutadans we know that many people find it very difficult to defeat you, because they also use a lot of public money on television with much more expensive than Spain, which is the most expensive propaganda platform in Spain, which accumulates 350_million_de_euros and ten convictions in the last electoral processes, 2017 and 2019, for lack of neutrality, for always helping separatism in its biased information. And the Catalans, honourable Members, are beginning to know their tricks. In the Anti-Fraud Office's 2020 barometer on corruption, it is noted that almost 75_percent of Catalans believe that the information provided by the media in Catalonia on corruption cases is little or nothing objective. We know that when there is no alternation in an autonomous community or in a municipality – as has happened in Hospitalet, for example, now, always ruled by the Socialist Party, or in Catalonia, always ruled by nationalism, whether alone or in the company of others, as it was when the tripartites with the PSC were – there are always problems of friendship, clientelism and corruption. This was also the case in Andalusia. I recall that when we agreed with the Socialist Party in Andalusia and supported some budget for Mrs Susana Díaz, we demanded that Mr Chaves and Mr Griñán resign from their public office because they were involved in a corruption case on which they were eventually convicted. And we do the same where we govern; also in Andalusia now with the People's Party, or also in Madrid with the People's Party, places where there have been scandals – in Andalusia, of course, there have been them with the EREs and there have been them with the money spent on some games. For we, in order to govern with those parties, have demanded measures against corruption. Always – always. You, of Republican Left, have ruled with the remains of the shipwreck of Convergence; you have never asked for anything and have now met with scandals that affect you personally. Look, you started a rupturist project in 2012. For us the balance has been of frustration, because you lied to those who promised you a promised land of independence, and for you, instead, the balance would be: unfulfilled promises, lined friends. This is not the model that we want for the Catalans; this is a classic model that makes distinctions, that there are some that are lined up, that the crisis does not affect them, that everything is going well for them, that contracts are being given, and others that are having a bad time to reach the end of the month. Look, you, who are the powerful, often go from reprisals. I spoke to you before Mr. Junqueras. Mr. Junqueras acts like he's a retaliated, says justice is revenge, but the truth is that it was he who pushed the one here in Catalonia to spend money that was not destined for an illegal referendum or for setting up state structures, and led him to that, led to that, to Catalonia, to take away the money to those who needed it most to make an adventure for which he has neither legal support, nor popular support, nor legitimacy, nor the support of anyone else in the world than of the people who voted for you to make this adventure. And, look, the alternative that it offers..., which we have here in Catalonia, unfortunately – and to this I wanted to refer also in this plenary against corruption, or against the diversion of public funds, or against the application of the economic resources of Catalans to things that have nothing to do with the needs of Catalans –..., I think a reflection is required, and it is next. When you are saying that what you have done is well done, that you have not recognized any kind of error, that you have not asked the vast majority of Catalans for forgiveness to those who have been concerned and burdened, no longer bringing us into your management disaster..., because you did not come here to manage an autonomous community, but came to carry out the "mandate of the U'Octubre and all these things, which has impoverished us and has made us lose absolutely places in competitiveness and in the Catalan, Spanish and European economy. It is that the alternative is not only that you leave once and for all this process that has impoverished us all; the alternative is also that here in Catalonia you change the way you operate and you change this broad sleeve with the corruption and the clientelism that we have. And I sincerely believe that the only ones we are capable of leading a regenerating change in Catalan politics are those of Ciutadans. And I have to refer, with this, to the silence – again – of Mr Iceta, who has not, I repeat, come to see us today, regarding the corruption that affects the municipality of Hospitalet and its party partner and president of the PSC, Mrs Núria Marín. We would have liked Mr.Iceta to have been blunt and to have explained what is happening in the Socialist Party..., in the same way that the Socialist Party has always gone from points to other scandals in the municipalities it governs: in Sabadell, in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, in Sant Adrià de Besòs and now in Hospitalet. But it is that the Socialist Party is no guarantee of regeneration, because I remember, in 2005, when Mr Maragall told Mr Artur Mas « you have a problem that is said 3 percent and when Mr Mas said « listen, that this is very important and we have things to do, which was precisely the Statute of 2006, the Socialist Party looked there out of political interest: because he was interested in Mr Maragall drawing, with the support of Mr Artur Mas, a status forward, because it turned out that that political interest prevailed, never again was it talked about that until the sentence came out that it was true what Mr Maragall was saying to Mr Artur Mas. And the same way of acting when it comes to what happens in their municipalities, in the municipalities governed by the Socialist Party, or in other scandals that there was, of course, funding from the Socialist Party, that same look on the other side that happened to Mr. Mas by Mr. Maragall, that same look on the other side we have also seen with the scandal of Volhov's listenings, that affected the Republican Squerra and that surely in the interest of the political interest of another new tripartite also motivated a question to Mr. Aragonès that Mr. Aragonès answered with evasive and that Mr. Iceta said: "Okay, okay, you have already convinced me. Well, thank you very much for the explanations. If anything else comes up, I'll ask you again. And that is, let's say, the vocation of change and regeneration that we have today in Catalonia, to which we Catalans can aspire in terms of corruption. Here all the money used improperly, if you cover with the stellate or with the political needs of pacts between each other, already it seems that, listen, it is lawful to look elsewhere. For we already tell you that we have also agreed with national parties suffering from the evil of corruption and that we imposed before, always before those pacts, we imposed a number of conditions to keep corruption away from the public thing. I am not going to extend much more than what I have already mentioned, because I believe that in this plenary we care more about reaching agreements and commitments on the part of political leaders to, I repeat, not to embarrass the citizens nor to have to embarrass ourselves for dedicating ourselves to politics, but it is obvious that during this legislature, we have seen how Mr Aragonès will end it without giving explanations of the subject of Mr Vendrell or of the forty-thousand euros in cash that they found in the office of the Cabrera de Mar building, which figured that everything was an invention of the Civil Guard, but there were forty-thousand euros, which were indeed not of invention or of Monopoly. Almost half of the emergency contracts processed in Spain during the pandemic are carried out by the Government of the Generalitat, welcoming the emergency procedure, the collage of finger contracts. The Anti-Fraud Office has already criticized this excess in emergency contracts. You will tell me: "Oh, because we work a lot and we do a lot of these contracts. Yes, but as you have caught them with the listenings caught Mr Vendrell, former advisor of Esquerra Republicana, with the roll of the contracts during the pandemic, you will understand that it is alarming and that this Plenary has to serve for us all to be aware that the lowering of requirements of the emergency of the pandemic should not cause us to lower our guard and must be lawfully hired and not to friends as occurred, apparently, with Mr Vendrell or as happened or happened when Mrs Borràs had to hire friends for the Institution of Catalan Lletres. Therefore, I see today that neither Mrs Vergés nor Mr Chakir nor Mr Bargalló are here, that Mr Vendrell mentioned in the telephone speeches to which they had to be called in order to fix the urban ball of Villa Bugatti. But, well, it is clear that they relate these facts to this plenary and that they require the firm commitment of all political leaders. If not, then things get better with a 'Spain steals us, when those who are stealing from us are probably much closer. Some fellow travelers who are looking for Mr. Iceta for a tripartite. The case of Convergence... Of course, it is now difficult to talk about Convergence, because it seems that you always talk about the past, because you no longer know what Convergence is, you no longer know where it is; you only know who its heirs are, and what ways they have, and what they have done. Now we are simply talking about that absolute immunization of corruption suffered by those of Junts per Catalunya, who put Mrs Borràs to represent them as a candidate, as future candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat, nothing less, a lady who is..., that the Supreme Court has asked the Congress to investigate the for those e-mails that have left us all amazed, and that Ciutadans has provided new evidence that they believe that not only hired the companion, the friend, but that he should not hire either the friend or anyone, because that had to be done by the Generalitat's Telecommunications and Technologies Centre, the CTTI, was the one who had to make those contracts and, indeed, much more baratitis, as it results from the information that the Generalitat itself provided to us. Anyway, the legislature's over. We think you've thrown the three years away. They've been looking forward to Waterloo than they have to Catalonia. They have been more keen on their internal battles than on the battle of the Catalans to arrive at the end of the month. But we believe that we cannot be embarrassed all the decade that has entered since 2021 by dragging these scandals, this declining fruit of the despotism of those who have ruled us. We have to look for a better future. There is nothing written that forces us here in Catalonia, as if it were a biblical curse, to endure indefinitely the corruption and passivity of the political leaders. Corruption used to divert funds for the parties and now the unusual cost of the process is added. The money devoted to the process is also corruption, because it has been removed from the needs of Catalans. The process came to cover the cuts and the corruption and the stelade and we, what we ask of all Catalans, is that we must take a step forward, that in February 2021 passes a train to the future and that, if we drive it with moderation, with wisdom and generosity, we will achieve a better future and with more freedom and prosperity for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and in the first place on behalf of the Government, the Vice-President, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable counselors, deputies, deputies. Today let me begin this intervention that I do in representation of the Government, and from which after that will follow the intervention of Councillor Bernat Sole, to express the support of the Government to the Councillor before the repression, before what is being pursued for having been a good mayor of Agramunt to the service of his fellow citizens and to the service of the citizenry and freedom of this country. [[Greetings.]] I'm going in, so, in subject matter. The title of this point on the agenda of the plenary is the word corruption, an evil that is the enemy worst of democracy. No pal·liatius and no excuse, it is, because corruption, by definition, corrupts and puts at risk what is the bond of trust between citizens and institutions, what is the democratic system and puts at risk what is the management of the common good. The management of the common good and democratic institutions are the main tool we have to combat inequalities; they are the main power tool of the majority of the population; they are the main tool to transform everything we don't like, to transform everything we need to change from the society we live in. For this reason, we have no doubt, this Government, that corruption is first and foremost anti-democracy, against the institutions themselves, and that, in a context of economic crisis, this is especially much harder, because if corruption is always harmful, when it appears in parallel to an economic crisis that poses the need to count with more resources, any suspicion, any clues and, even more, any fact that these resources have not been properly used to deal with social and economic emergencies and have gone to the hospital, to the schools or to the public service, so obviously this forms an explosion of the democratic system. Are Catalan institutions immune to corruption? No, no, Roundly and badly, they're not; you know that. I need to recognize him. The institutions of our country are not immune to this corruption, and this angers us all. But this does not mean, to recognize this does not mean that we have to accept it and that we do not bet to change these imperfections of the democratic system; on the contrary, to rebel against this situation and to get corruption, to come from where it comes, not to go unpunished for a question of justice, for everything else, but also for a question of defense of democratic institutions, of defense of politics like it to transform society, of defense of institutions. And that's why I need to protect these institutions. The best way to do this is to act with total transparency, with total transparency, putting oil on all the control mechanisms, which are very effective and very effective, working at all times with justice, always clarifying any shadow of doubt and all those who, with their bad practices, have put in question the confidence of the citizenry in the assembly of democratic institutions and in the political representatives. Before corruption, there is no excuse and we must be ruthless. It is necessary to have an impeccable behaviour for the sake of ethics, respect for the institutions, and compromise with the citizenry. Today it is again unacceptable to see news from media outlets as very important institutions in our country have targeted another band before possible cases of corruption. It is unacceptable and unwarranted, and it would also be to remain with hollow arms. There's no excuse it's worth it. Either you confront corruption or you accept it; or you are allowed or you fight corruption. He didn't neutralize it. There's no way out of the mig. There's no end to it. And there are no hymns, flags, or visks that can cover up any kind of corruption. And we need to be very clear about this, and we need to make this very clear, as police mountains are also tolerable with the aim of mediating against democratic political movements, so as to destabilize these political options, that we want something as simple as having an independent state as they have so many other countries in the world, or questions...., or political formations that question the institutional and political trading model that has existed in the Spanish State in the last forty years. There are mountains that point to independence. There are mountains that point to left forces that have not been part of the consensus of the regime and that are not part of the status quo; mountains that want to impassion everyone with the gluttony of systemic corruption when not all of us are the same – not all of us are the same – and we need to say it loud and clear. For this reason, many of us are also independent, because a new state must also be used to build another line of institutions, to escape systemic corruption in the Spanish State, and here it is systemic – it is systemic – and here it is not untouchable, it is said Borbo or it has the qualification of emeritus. No one is untouchable before any case of corruption, before corruption, the inviolability of certain institutions is an insult to democracy, and therefore before corruption no one can be inviolable nor should anyone be regarded as emeritus as a measure of forgiveness and to avoid responsibilities. This is systemic corruption, which you forgot, Mr. Carrizosa. He's taken care of all the suspects, he's taken care of all the police mountains, but he's left one in the investigation, that every day we don't know more, that today the prosecution was calling again for commissions in London and Mexico: that of the monarchy. This is systemic, this corruption is systemic. No one can give lessons of corruption when he looks at another band when it affects the trade in which members of the Crown are presumed to be involved. Let no one raise the anti-corruption flag when it excuses that the royal family does not have enough public finance and must, presumably, collect commissions and, presumably, accumulate millions in tax havens. And this corruption is worrying. Actually, it's the most worrying because it affects who's been in the state. He didn't mention it, you; he apologized, he looked at another gang, he did everything you accused others of doing in this House. He just did it with the Emeritus King. Corruption that can go unpunished; corruption, that of the highest instincts, before which democracy cannot be defended; corruption that marks the political DNA of a monarchy. There's no excuse. We must remain implacable, we must also remain implacable; we must be implacable against corruption, and we must be implacable in our day to day. Ethically, in respect of the citizenry, for democratic compromise we fight all corruption, all, you are under the flag that you are, you intend to engage under the ideological discourse that you intend to engage, come from where you come. Precisely, in this compromise there was democracy and freedom. So let's talk about it. So much for systemic corruption. We have all the late days and the days you want, Mr. Carrizosa. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. You have the word, with the President's permission, the Solé Councillor. Good afternoon. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. Indeed, now has the words of the Solé Councillor. When he wants to; he's coming in.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.6.0	Very late good, deputies, deputies, president, advisors, vice president; well, first place, therefore, agrate the support shows. Today is not an easy day, but it is a day to claim those values that we have always defended. The vice president said, Mr. Ciutadans, when corruption is denounced, it is a total denunciation, not just a few or not just the one that interests them. You, Mr. Carrizosa, told us, to initiate your intervention, which could seem like an anomaly to celebrate a ple on corruption in the midst of the pandemic. Do you know what the real anomaly is? It is that you base your political project solely on denouncing corruption, without any type of proposal, without any type of solution before the pandemic we are living in. I told them the last day, and I'm telling them again today. Today you have a specific debate, I suppose to have minutes at this end of the parliamentary term, concretely, a debate that carries by title a situation of structural and institutionalised corruption in the political power that constitutes a democratic fraud, and oblivion of the great systemic corruption to which the vice president refers, oblivion of the monarchy, oblivion of the Royal House, oblivion of the great scams that have occurred in this State as if there were no such thing. His speech on corruption, therefore, has many shortcomings. In fact, today this is not a debate about corruption, and for this reason I will explain to you all the measures we are taking from the Government of the Generality. You are simply taking advantage of this as a publicity of your political project and as an episode more of these state-based key-loggers, of this repressive episode, and of this anti-democratic episode that we have had more proof of today. Here the only democratic fraud is what I gave it before: no constructive proposal, no political impulse. They have not been able, during all this time, to generate any kind of alliance in this Parliament; they have not been able to exercise a constructive opposition, when you were calling yourself the main parliamentary group of this chamber; nor is there a proposal that has arrived at a good place, that has generated alliances and consensus, and therefore I would ask your voters or the citizens of this country to ask what thirty-six Members of this Parliament were needed in this Parliament during this parliamentary term. If I told them the other day: they have an empty, populist speech, and the only thing they do is attack the government; this is their political project. And when someone does them to us, they do them to us because they don't think the same as you, so then it's when they use the speech of corruption, and so that's a common practice of all the little democratic world-rearing rules. I told you before, I could get into the detail of everything you've exposed, but I'm going to do an accounting exercise, which is what we're dealing with as a government. I will explain to you all the work that this government has done over the past few years – not just in this past legislature but in these past years – to fight corruption in a real and effective way and, for another group, to promote transparency policies that position us as international referents. And I'm not saying it, and I'm not saying it, I'm saying it's the accredited and reference entities at the international level. Let's split it up. Possibly I will, because you may have been waiting for another type of speech. Let's split it up. Any 2018, March 27, 2018, the Government presented the Government's Open Data Strategy to the Mobile World Congress. July 2018, we created the government agreement search engine, where you can still visualize today – where you can visualize – all the government agreements since 2014, because we have nothing to store. And when you make this stack of questions to us in a repetitive way and we address them precisely to those tools that we have enabled is simply for a question of efficiency, because we have the tools that guarantee this transparency. September 2018. We took part in the International Open Data Conference, and the Generality became part of the Open Data Charter, a prestigious international recognition forum that we took part in; an exhibition of the compromise in this case of data opening, of making data available to citizens. That same year we renewed the Participa Gencat portal, so precisely to improve public policies and the democratic quality of our institutions; precisely to make it possible for the citizenry to be informed, to participate and to debate the policies promoted by the government. Because we are very clear that citizens' ability to control and supervise is an essential element in a government's policies and is an essential element in fighting corruption. Any 2019; concretely mes de març. We presented a report on the implementation of the Open Government Platform of the Government of Catalonia 2017-2018, with a degree of implementation of 73_per_cent. What does that mean? That we explained to the citizenry in which the Government of the Generality allocates its resources, the maximum exercise of transparency. April 2019. We will publish the new open assumptions tool, to make it easier for citizens to understand the assumptions of the Generality, because citizens can consult, can hear where the money is allocated by the Government of the Generality. That same year we also created the Catalonia Register of Grants and Aids, with which we advertise and compliment the obligations we have in the field of grants established for the same Transparency Law. When you ask us how we allocate our resources, to whom we give grants, it is as simple as to consult in this Register of Grants and Aids from Catalonia. In any case, can you tell me somewhere, some territories of the Spanish State that I had a subsidy repository with a fence like the Government of the Generality has? Therefore, I assure you that it is a useful mechanism and I invite you to use it when you have so many doubts about how we spend money on the Government of the Generality. June 2019. We will approve the Open Government Plan 2019-2020. November 20, 2019. The re-use of the generality's open data was rewarded at the Smart City Expo. Another international recognition. We don't say that, but the reference entities say it at international level. At these moments we are still working on the draft decree for which the Rules of Transparency Law will be approved. In fact, 2018, 2019 and 2020 we have convened two citizen consultation procedures, as well as two interdepartmental consultations and two public information procedures, because all citizens, because all the departments of this government can participate in the elaboration of this regulation. And precisely in these moments this regulation already has the view of the Local Government Commission and the Labour Council, Economic and Social of Catalonia, and once the Legal Advisory Commission does not issue its opinion the Government will be willing to approve this regulation that will allow the totality of the Law of Transparency to be deployed. 2020, generation 15 of 2020. The Government approved the Fight against Corruption and Strengthening Public Integrity Strategy, a clear, determined and fully transparent bet to minimize the risk of corruption in the Administration and strengthen public integrity and ethics. He said before the vice president, all administrations are likely to have cases of corruption, but not all administrations have such tools as this strategy, as the Government of the Generality has provided. February 7, 2020. This very House adopted a resolution on the fight against corruption, with more than thirty-four proposals to which we have already paid tribute. During the first few months of the pandemic – we already entered a time of pandemic, in Covid's time – we opened up all the information regarding the effects of the Covid-19, both at the health level, at the work level, at the economic level, at the social level, and at the mobility level. We also created a space in the portal of transparency with access to information, with measures and resources in various areas related to the pandemic. And that in this case there was also a viewfinder on the emergency contract, to which you refer. If there's any doubt, it's as simple as looking at that viewfinder. And if they need help, as I've said on many occasions, we'll make it easier for them to convince and accompany them in this vicinity. March 2020. We enabled a viewer of high-level activities, where all information about meetings, interest groups, gifts, invitations, trips is published. I hope you also make use of and publish all those meetings you make. May 2020. We will open the sessions of the space online."I ask, that corporate channel that allows the citizenry to raise doubts, ask questions, all that they consider opportune to members of the government. In other words, it is possible that the citizenry formulated direct questions to members of the Government, a pioneering initiative, a bold initiative, an innovative initiative. 17 July 2020. We participated..., and not only did we participate but we gave support to the citizens' initiative because it was possible for the First Anti-Corruption Summit to be held here in the same Parliament. And I think I remember you watching it, too. 21 July 2020. The government approved the anonymization of the ethical compasses. And I would like to take this opportunity to announce to you that these ethical goods, those goods that will allow alerters to be protected, will from tomorrow be enabled so that any citizen, any public servant, can make any bad practice known to the Administration. Therefore, we act; we are transparent and we act. September 2020. The Government approved the Code of Tax Good Practices for the Administration of the Generality and the Public Sector, and the creation of the Committee for the Follow-up of Tax Good Practices. 20 October 2020. The Generality became a member of the Open Government Partnership, the international reference entity in the field of open data. And this is not the competence of the State; in this entity there can be all those administrations that are exemplary, that are references in the field of transparency. 23 November 2020. It was the executive commission for the deployment of the work plan of the First Summit against Corruption with a clear objective: to implement all those measures to combat the structural causes that the fight against corruption makes possible. I've said it before, and I think with everything that I've exposed them at these times – and we could still list a lot of other things here – I can show them that we're transparent. And we're not transparent because you're asking us, we're transparent because we believe in each other. And we don't just believe it, we just practice it, we put it into practice. Our policies, the policies of this Government, are based, sustained, are based on republican and democratic values, because we precisely have this responsibility before the citizenship of our country. From the Government of the Generality we work as an open government because transparency and free access to public information are intrinsic to democracy; any society that you call democratic must be transparent and must have all the tools that you serve to fight corruption. And it is not thought that these actions that I have just announced, I have listed them, and to which we could add a larger list are actions that have been chosen for today to fill in this debate, no; these actions are part of the Strategy of Fighting Corruption and Strengthening Public Integrity, approved by the 15th generation for this government, precisely to fight corruption; a strategy with five concrete actions that will last for the next two years, many of which are already in operation, as they are the static goods, which, as I said, will be enabled from tomorrow. Another example of how we are moving forward. In July 2020, we enabled this area of civic participation, this area charged with vetting and following the advances of this strategy, which follows these twenty-five actions, because nothing is needed to make a summit in this Parliament if all that is agreed upon, if all that is at the disposal of Parliament and of the citizenry, is not proven to be complete. This space, this control area, is formed by two people designated from citizens and entities who participated precisely in the elaboration of this strategy. Because we have nothing to store. We rely on citizenship, we rely on pioneering entities that have always led transparency and the fight against corruption. And here I could add many other examples in which, as I said, we are capdavanters. Precisely ten years ago, this government was a pioneer and enabled its first open data portal of the Government of Catalonia. We were among the first administrations of the Spanish State to open a portal of transparency, a portal of open data, precisely to complete with two objectives intrinsic to republican values: to facilitate the retention of accounts of public policies and to generate economic and social value, because, not in doubt, the economic and social value is built from the trust of the citizenry in a government. I'm done. We are transparent and relentless against corruption, because we believe that this is the best system of government, of public and transparent management, democratic, useful and prone to citizenship. We, as the government, govern for the citizenry and govern with the citizenry, want them to be part of this governance, because we only understand politics in this way, with this vocation of public service. And, for that matter, we shall never take away our work. And to end this exercise of transparency, you often say that we do not explain ourselves, that we do not answer your questions, your questions, I repeat what I have said on many occasions since the Faristol and the Escou: we have answered 331 questions, 431 oral questions in this very Ple; we have appeared 240 times in committees; we have given answers to 1,147 questions or initiatives of parliamentary groups, whether they are written or on request for information. Therefore, when you tell us that we are not a transparent government, the problem we do not have, the problem you have. Now, if you'll excuse me, I want to end a reflection. This morning I was tried at the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, accused of a presumed crime of disobedience for being at the side of the city of my municipality. It takes a year and a half of special incapacity and a fine of 24,000 euros to do what the majority of mayors and mayors of this country did: to be on the side of the city. It's obvious that this intervention, therefore, can have an emotional point. It could be – if the Court so decides – that it was my last intervention in his parliamentary office. And, therefore, in this case this motion of condemnation is only to be obedient to the will of my fellow citizens. A curious paradox: the more the citizenry asks us to respond to its petitions, the more judicial are those political representatives who respond to the petitions of the citizenry, who feel compromised with the citizenry. The ones who know me, the ones who know me, you know I'm a dial person, but above all an agreed person. I believe in parliamentarianism, because I understand that parliamentarianism is the tool that must enable us to reach great agreements and consensus, to seek common points, to counter arguments and to build consensus. And this Parliament, this Parliament that has been closed for so many years, this Parliament, has to be the maximum expression of all this, an area where we can debate and speak absolutely of everything, without bottlenecks, without barriers and without limits, because it is through the dialogue, the negotiation and the political diversity that we advance as a society. Unfortunately, we have seen and see that long ago the logic that prevails is control: repression in place of negotiation, judicialization in place of politics. This morning's trial is another example. A case against a government advisor who no longer has a president, who has an incapacitated president. Therefore, that every reflection on what the cost of democracy wants to be situated. To me, I'll always be on the side of the dialogue, the negotiation and the agreement. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. Some parliamentary groups have asked us for a short time now, between the interventions of the Government and the principles of the groups. Therefore, we take two minutes of time and continue with the interventions of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.8.0	Well, let's take back the Ple. And we do so, as we say, with the interventions of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. I, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.9.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, once again, we come to this Parliament to talk about corruption, about that scourge that corrodes our system and undermines citizens' confidence in our institutions. We all already know what has happened in this land with corruption, how those who said that Spain steals from us because it turns out that they then took it warm while they were giving moral lessons to others. We all know this already institutionalized corruption of Convergence, not only in the Pujol era – accused, by the way, of criminal organization alongside his family – but also in the Mas era and in the Puigdemont era. What's new now? Well, it turns out that not only Convergence and its heirs are involved in this institutionalized corruption, but also, it seems, by those conversations that we have been able to meet, that it is also involved Republican Left. Those who so presumptuously did not have a single case of corruption, but who did not hesitate to go by the hand of those who did, are now also pointed out in the investigation of the Volhov case by this alleged corruption that points to prominent leaders of the Republican Left, such as the former advisor Mr Vendrell. And later I'll talk about this investigation, but first I want to talk about just last week. What happened last week? Specifically on Wednesday. Well, we were celebrating International Anti-Corruption Day, a cause that is, or at least should be, everyone's. And how did the separatist parties celebrate International Anti-Corruption Day? Well, asking for an amnesty for people who are convicted of embezzlement of public funds, of money that had to go to social services. That's how you decided to spend that International Day to Fight Corruption, asking that people convicted of very serious crimes such as the crime of embezzlement could enjoy the privilege of pardon and amnesty. I insist it was the international day. Which is that you seem to be independent of the world and common sense. Catalonia of the rest of Spain, no; now, of common sense, you have indeed become independent, but well. And let's talk about corruption. Look, Citizens, we don't want to give lessons. And so was my partner Carlos Carrizosa. We do not want to lecture anyone, but they will allow me to claim the role of my party in the struggle for democratic regeneration. Because in Citizens, for example, we have been left alone defending that it is the judges, and not the politicians, who choose the judges who will then surely have to judge cases – I hope not, but that is what we are seeing –..., cases of corruption of the politicians who have put it there. And this is not just something we ask for in Citizens; this is also what the judges themselves are asking for, and is also what the European Union is asking for. Moreover, it is what manifests the spirit of our Constitution. Make sure how simple, Socialist Party and People's Party gentlemen, this is a reform: that judges themselves choose judges is a reform that costs zero euros, that abounds in democracy and the separation of powers and that would unlock once and for all the renewal of the Council of the Judiciary without having to depend on either populists or separatists. So, please, I ask you to take note and correct in this regard. I also tell you that if, today, for example, corrupt politicians cannot hide behind the hanging in Murcia, in the Canary Islands, in Castile and León or in Cantabria is also thanks to my party, thanks to Citizens. And we continue to try it in many other autonomous communities as, for example, here in Catalonia. Because we, in Citizens, brought to politics the suppression of the privilege of stumbling, because it is a key issue to fight corruption and against and for democratic regeneration. Ladies and gentlemen of Catalonia in Comú Puem, gentlemen of Podemos, we all know, for example, that, if it were not for the aphoration, since Mr. Pablo Iglesias, the leader of his formation, would be accused of alleged crimes of corruption, some of them very serious, because they would also count on the aggravating because of gender. Do you remember when you said that stumbling was a nineteenth - century privilege? Do you remember when Mr. Pablo Iglesias said that? Do you remember saying that this was the privilege of the caste that you came to eradicate? Who has seen them and who sees them, right? Gentlemen of Podemos. Of course, that is what happens when the rival's corruption is fought not by a conviction, not by principle, but to try to take political advantage, as you have shown. Look, a few months ago the Lords of Podemos and also of the Socialist Party voted against the anti-corruption law of Citizens in Congress. A strict, guaranteed law that also meets all the requirements that we are required from Europe. A law that, for example, supported when the Lords of Podemos and the Lords of the Socialist Party were also in opposition. Why? Because you are only outraged by corruption when it affects the other parties. Already when it affects themselves as then silent and voting against, as they have done with this law of anti-corruption of Citizens. Do you know what one of the main points of our anticorruption law was? It is precisely the protection of whistleblowers. And in Podemos know that with our law not only Pablo Iglesias would already be imputed, as he told them before, but also Podemos' lawyer, who is pulling the blanket in the Neurona case, would not be a public character nor would he be being lynched by his hosts, but would be protected by the state. I'm also telling you something else from last week. I insist it was International Anti-Corruption Day. What happened in addition to that last week? Well, citizens put to the vote an initiative to sanction and demand political responsibilities from those who fail to comply with the requirements of the Transparency and Good Government Council. Something, in short, that I believe any Democrat should share. You, who's a Transparency Advisor... although I don't think they do much here, by not saying anything. But what did the lords of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and Podemos do on that occasion? Well, then, as always, rejoining to overthrow this proposal. And the Socialist Party and Podemos, who talked about not knowing what about dignity, because it turns out that they have emptied the Transparency Portal as they have been discovering that it is easier to turn scandals into state secrets, right? As, for example, Mr Sánchez's misuse of the Falcon. You have become accustomed to turning personal secrets into state secrets. And what I don't understand here is what the People's Party was doing by voting with the Socialist Party and with Podemos to avoid the transparency of the government. Honestly, I don't understand. And I would like to be explained to us by the gentlemen of the People's Party. Because, of course, would it be possible for you to unite for a cause that could benefit the citizens, rather than to cover up these secrets of the government of Podemos and the Socialist Party? Could it be that, for once, you combined efforts with those who want to change things, such as, for example, the offer we made you of a great constitutionalist pact in Catalonia to defeat once and for all separatism and to have a government that is thinking of something other than the obsession of separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain? We would have liked it, actually. But, well, I'm back to the issue of corruption. Look, corruption – and I think it has already been said here this afternoon – does not understand ideologies. That's where we agree. If citizens want an infallible detector of populism, I think they only have to look at who attributes corruption to whom. Corruption the PP is attributed to the Socialist Party, and the Socialist Party is attributed to the People's Party, and you among yourselves for, as always, fighting each other, one saying that you have no cases of corruption and blaming the other. But the reality is very different. The reality is that corruption flows where power has been. Who has had, who has held power in the last thirty years in Catalonia? Separatism. Convergence, yes. Your partners, Mr. Aragonès. Because you carry this entire legislature by giving us lessons that you had nothing to do with corruption. You have been ruling in the last two legislatures with Democratic Convergence of Catalonia for much change of acronym and name that you make. What's going on? That the rest of the parties are free from suspicion of corruption? No, but we're taking action. We, in Citizens, have an ethical code and we fulfill it. It is true that no party is free to have cases of corruption. Now, the issue is how to deal with these corruption cases when they are discovered, to say the least. You can take action and fight the corruption and the corrupt frontally, you can justify – as you have done – you can cover – as for example Mr.Iceta, who seems to have no idea what happened in L'Hospitalet with the lady..., his companion Núria Marín –, or you can defend your partner simply by being the partner. You have chosen, and you, Mr Aragonese, have chosen to go by the hand of Convergence, of the most corrupt. And now, when these Volhov talks have been discovered and uncovered, you have decided to look elsewhere and blame Spain again, as they always do, instead of facing the front and giving us explanations or at least asking for explanations to those people who appear in those conversations, such as the Councillor El Homrani, the Councillor Vergés, or also the Education Councillor, Bargalló. Look, as we said before, and Mr.Carrizosa was also commenting on them. Why do we distinguish ourselves in Citizens from being the adalids of the fight against corruption? Because where we go, where we govern, we demand in those government pacts that measures be taken against corruption and that those who are under suspicion of corruption cannot hold a public office, as in the case of Andalusia with Mr.Chaves and Mr. Griñán who were linked in the cases of the EREs of Andalusia. Well, these gentlemen have gone home and are out of politics today thanks to Citizens. Also so many accused of the People's Party. That's fighting corruption. This is to put a stop to it as soon as it takes on corruption. And you know what? That when a person seeks a hole in politics to meddle or to enrich himself, he also knows where he can go and where he can't and where he won't do business. Because the principles, then, serve for something. And they also avoid these circumstances, they also serve as a deterrent and in our party we have it very clear, and no one enters without signing this ethical letter. So I assure you that we do take action, that's fighting corruption. We can't stop someone from getting their hands on what's public, but we can decide what we do after we find out what, what you don't do. And look, as I said to you, corruption does not understand ideologies, and obviously, it is not an exclusive thing only of nationalism since we are here in the Parliament of Catalonia, but it is true that nationalism, separatism, has created a gender of its own in terms of corruption that is justifying this corruption. Listen, you, if you're investigated, if you're caught and convicted, it's for nationalists, it's not for corrupts. It is for nationalists, it is because they are persecuted for their ideology... It has nothing to do with the embezzlement of public funds as we have seen in the case of those condemned for the events of September and October 2017. Let's talk about separatism, because I insist that you have been very, very, very splashed by corruption here in Catalonia. Let's talk about that movement, which started Mr. Jordi Pujol, known as the godfather of his son, Mr. Oriol Pujol, who called him yourself « l'hereu, the prince of 3_per_cent, and all that clan that, I insist, is being investigated by criminal organization. This is undoubtedly the mother of the lamb of what has happened here in Catalonia, but it is that the list of cases of corruption not only remains there, and it is a slab that should shame all the parties that have ruled so far in Catalonia. We have the case Banca Catalana, the case Millet, the case Palau, the case ITV, the case Treball, the case Adigsa, case Pretoria, Petrum, Mercuri, Innova, case Hisenda, case Ferrocarrils, the case of Mrs Laura Borràs and now also the case Volhov, which seems, I don't know, the race of corruption here in Catalonia. And I look, because it seemed like I was going to win Convergence but it's just that in the last few meters Mr. Vendrell has taken a wheelbarrow. We'll see how this all ends. We have seen, for example, Mr Buch investigated for alleged embezzlement after having hired a mosso as an advisor to escort the fugitive to Waterloo. We have also had to endure the investigation of Mr. Figueras, secretary of the Generalitat's Esports, arrested by a plot of misappropriation of public funds, who is also accused of crimes of embezzlement, prevarication and trafficking in influence, and here no one has done anything, everyone quiet. This gentleman is still the secretary of the Generalitat d'Esports. And, as we were saying in the previous speech, it seems that Catalans also have breakfast day and day with news related to corruption. The last, therefore, also related to Mrs. Laura Borràs, who was not only allegedly engaged in the award of contracts to her colleagues, but also invented literary contests in which – surprise – Mr.Isaías Herrero also won. The truth is that Mr. Herrero had a collusion with Mrs. Laura Borràs. You will remember that Herrero himself spoke of the « trapis, in quotes, because he said so, which he had with Mrs Borràs. That is, it is that same gentleman, I insist, that, therefore, he also won all those contests that Mrs Borràs awarded; contests that, moreover, seem to be nonexistent, we will see what determines justice, but it is that we have e-mails from Mrs Borràs where he openly admits that concepts were invented, prices..., that he had to change even the letters so that it was not noticed that she was inventing it all. Of course he had a collusion Mr Herrero with Borràs, who carried public contracts and literary contests by the face thanks to his friend. Isaiah Herrero, who is also condemned to this day for drug trafficking. Of course this was a jewel, Mr. Herrero. Of course, I wonder how unpunished Mrs. Borràs felt that she left in writing in those e-mails, recognizing her there in those e-mails how those invoices were invented, which also in those e-mails said that we had it fried by Citizens investigating corruption. Why? Because we have always been the ones here in Catalonia fighting the corruption of separatism. Always us, and Mrs Borràs herself recognizes it in those e-mails. How unpunished Mrs. Laura Borràs had to feel that when she finds out that she is being investigated by this chanchullo with her colleague Herrero she can think of nothing but to call Mr. Buch, who was the interior adviser, to ask her to see how she was doing. What is it about calling the Interior Counselor to see how an investigation is going? It's just that it's embarrassing, but no one here has said anything and no one has taken on any responsibility whatsoever. And the truth is that what we have lived here has a name: bribes, money laundering, commission collection, documentary falsity, influence trafficking, covetousness, prevarication, embezzlement... That is the daily bread of some of the most prominent leaders of Catalonia. And that has a name, it's called corruption, manual, systemic and institutionalized, as the title of this plenary says. And we have also spoken, on more occasions, of those already famous and regrettable words of Mr Maragall, we also reminded him before. And he said to them: "You have a problem and this problem is said 3 percent. Of course, some... I remember when I heard this phrase, I was at home, I wasn't dedicated to politics, and I thought, what is Mr. Maragall talking about now, what does he mean? But of course, Mr. Mas knew perfectly well what Mr. Maragall was talking about: a major corruption scandal, capital. What's going on is, again, everyone's shut up. Why? Because it was good for them. They used to like it. And then Mr. Mas, already president of the Generalitat, tried to cover it with the use of stellate. He tried to cover it up. What happens is that it was too late to stop the rule of law machinery and then again pulled that smokescreen that you always use and that's called process. Those who were said or said to be owed to Catalonia, in fact they were only owed to their portfolio. Those who for so many years gave us lessons and said that Spain steals us – yourself, Mr Aragonès, sign in hand, « Spain steals us – what they would have to do is ask for forgiveness. To ask forgiveness and above all to return up to the last euro that they stole from all Catalans, a money that had to be destined to provide better and more services to Catalonia, but which, however, went to stop with impunity in the pockets of some, of some for whom his homeland was always his wallet, only his wallet. And I want to remind you that in Citizens a few months ago we passed a law for Mr Pujol to return the last stolen euro to the Catalans. What happened to that? So much so that you are going out here to breastfeed and to show how you fight corruption, why do you not force that money that has been stolen from the Catalans and that has also been demonstrated by a court ruling to be returned, to the last cent, as we asked for in Citizens and as, by the way, this Parliament approved? What happens is, of course, that mandate doesn't interest you. They're only interested in yours, the ones in this half. Those of the other, who represent most Catalans, that's nothing. This is how one fights corruption, giving example, not with words; with deeds. So again today I insist again: if you really want to show or prove that you are fighting corruption, make that money come back to the public coffers and that it will stop at what is necessary, especially at a time like this one of full pandemic, of health crisis, of economic crisis and of social crisis with so many Catalans who are having a very bad time to reach the end of the month. Because it's not just this, it's not just that you don't fight to get it back to the last euro. No, no. It is that you also have Catalans suffocated, literally, at taxes. And we've talked about it many times now, Mr. Aragonès. Taxes I look at, if you tell me what it is that they are going to stop at the public services, for yet, but not: it is that these taxes are going to finance their chiringuitos. For your friends, for placement, for Mr. Sole's embassies... for that you do have money, for that you do suffocate the Catalans. For better services, no; for better hospitals, no; for better schools, no. For your chiringuitos, as always. As always. Look, social spending in Catalonia has dropped by 8_per_cent since the beginning of the process, while the average in Spain has risen by 14_per_cent. This is the policy that separatist governments have taken in recent years. And of course, I wonder what you do about it. You, Mr Aragonès, who, in addition to your party, Esquerra Republicana, is being so decisive with the General Budgets of the State, have you taken any steps, for example, to reduce the tax burden we all suffer from Catalans? No, no, You have gone to talk about the taxes of the Madriders. Of course I do. You have to export your model of throwing companies away and ruining us as we have remained here thanks to your process. Look, I think unfortunately there are those who have come to politics to serve the citizens, which is what we should all do, because for that we are public servants, and others who have not, others who have come to do other things. Mr. Torra, for example, already told us that he had not come here to manage an autonomous community and, of course, of all the promises he made, that was the only one he fulfilled. And others who have come here to enrich themselves with impunity as for so many years has done separatism in Catalonia. Look, I was saying before that Mr.Artur Mas, in a desperate attempt to divert the attention of that tsunami of corruption that was coming upon them, pulled out the stellate as if that were enough. And you, who are your successors in the Government of the Generalitat, far from denouncing it, far from fighting corruption as I say to you, you have raised the bet and accelerated your flight forward. You had, for example, no need to defend, no need to cover up, no need to justify the corruption of nationalism, but it was your decision. I already told you before that you can do like us, that we demand real measures and that people who have been unjustly enriched are not in a public office, or the other option, which is that you have chosen, to cover up and make you see that corruption is not going with you. They had the possibility to put themselves on the side of the judges, of the police investigating these cases, of the public servants who are honest or of those who have taken it raw, and you have chosen the latter and the Catalans have not only been victims of a historical robbery, but also are having to endure the confrontation, the rift and the division that casts upon them the process that you use, I insist, to cover up all this diversion of money that for so many years the separatist governments have brought to Catalonia. Look, there are things that, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra, only happen in Catalan separatism. Jordi Pujol, Artur Mas, Mr Puigdemont, Quim Torra and now also Mrs Borràs and we will see, I insist, what happens to this investigation that is focused on prominent leaders of the Republican Left. It seems, in the end, that the imputation is the natural state of some separatist leaders, separatist leaders that is that above you not only do not say "hey, let's investigate, but that above you reward them, that Mrs Borràs is number one, the candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat of Junts per Catalunya". It's just that you have a tin you pick out the lists that you want me to tell you. Mr. Solé, by the way, who reminded us that he has already gone to the court today, also goes on one of these lists and let's not talk about others anymore... – of other people, I'll say –, of other people like Mr. Canadell, who yesterday we knew he had been chosen in primary also as number two on the Junts per Catalunya lists. I would like to remind you that it is this gentleman who uttered the famous phrase: "Spain is unemployment and death and Catalonia, life and future. This gentleman has been placed, separatism, as number two on the Junts per Catalunya lists. But good. Pure and hard fanaticism, but well, I'm going back to corruption, which I see some altered here on the Junts bench. Look, it said that corruption has been shown to be the natural state of Convergence, but we are also concerned about the reaction of its partners, the reaction of the gentlemen of the Republican Left, basically because they are now also the partners of the Socialist Party of the Government in Madrid. Then, as you can see, we are concerned. We are concerned about the information we have known about Mr Vendrell, those conversations with Mrs Vergés, that lunch that lasted for how many hours. What did they talk about at that lunch? Because Mrs Vergés is silent, she hasn't explained anything at all. And what emerges from those talks is that there was coercion for Mrs Vergés to speed up the award, supposedly, of public contracts. I think that at least – at least – Mrs Vergés would have to come here to give her face and if Mrs Vergés doesn't, because you, Mr Aragonès, as leader of the Republican Left, should have done something, but no. Do you know what they've done since Republican Left? Call on the government to warn them: "Eye, we are not doing well. That's his way of fighting corruption, threatening others: "Eye, we're not doing well. Call that I would have to embarrass them, sincerely, I would have to embarrass them. Well, well, I don't know, you'll see Mr. Iceta, the Socialist Party gentlemen, because if you get these partners right, honestly, honestly. Mr. Aragonese, you say the Volhov case is a state invention, which is that you are panicking that Republican Left will win the elections. So, you say that independence is being attacked with a new operation that wants to divide us, enthrall a democratic and honest movement with suspicions of corruption. I don't know who Mr. Aragonès is referring to. Who wants to fantasize, divide us? Who is doing this new operation, its governing partners, the Socialist Party gentlemen? Who are you referring to, Mr Aragonès? Because the truth is that it would be a very original way to attack independence, when the Socialist Party does not stop buying all its demands. The last, for example, eliminate Spanish, label Spanish as a vehicle language; it would be a very curious way to attack independence, because they buy absolutely everything. So, what do you mean, Mr. Aragonès? What do you mean? I think it's the same song as always, that when you're already cornered, when you don't know what to do anymore, when you don't want to face what's happened, then we always look for an external enemy. And now it turns out that 'there is a plot of persecution here. No, there are some gentlemen here who have telephone conversations, where they make it clear what they were doing during the pandemic. Mr Vendrell, who even acknowledges in those conversations, seems to have allegedly misled or mixed people who were inside the residences who had been infected with the Covid of whom they did not. That comes out, in those conversations. There is no plot or persecution or anything there. What's there is a defachation like a piano, Mr. Aragonès. And at least, at least, I think they'd have to face it and stop making so many excuses, really. We were also listening to this... is that I don't know..., we were listening, for example, to Mrs. Capella, who is nothing more and nothing less than the Justice Counsellor, when they were also talking about these investigations into the Volhov case; she said: "Today they are the independenceists. Tomorrow can be anyone. This was said by Mrs. Capella comparing the investigation of this case with the Nazi persecution. I really don't know if they have any sense of ridicule or what other adjective to use or what other word to use. This was said by Mrs. Capella, who is the Justice Counselor comparing that investigation of the Volhov case, going so far as to compare that with what was happening in Nazi Germany in the 1930s. Look, no, no. Do you know what does look like what happened in Nazi Germany in the 1930's? That remark and persecution by the separatist radicals in restaurants for their ideology or for the language they speak. That does look like Germany in the 1930s. [[Widow's remorse.]] Those persecutions and those remarks, instigated, by the way, by entities such as Platform for Language, that you water them well with subsidies and money from all Catalans. [[Widow's remorse.]] That does look like what happened in Germany in the 1930s. Have a little decorum, at least, by making what kind of comparisons. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Look, I insist, I insist, according to the investigations, it seems that the gentlemen... I know, Mrs Madaula, that you are very nervous, because it embarrasses you, it embarrasses you what you are doing. I can understand that, but that's what's happening today in Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Look, I insist, according to the investigations, it seems that Mr. Vendrell, Madí, Soler and the rest of the staff, Soler and the rest of the staff of separatism were allegedly using, I insist, even the Covid pandemic to do business and to enrich themselves. I understand that this alters you, Mrs Madaula, because it is to alter you, really. Imagine how all those Catalans are out there who are having such a bad time and who have to do with shame how they even traded with the pandemic itself, even with the Covid-19 drama itself, honestly, honestly. But no, you mean there's a plot and a persecution here. How do we explain these forty-thousand euros in tickets in the office of one of the detainees, Mr Enric Mir, city councillor of Esquerra Republicana in Cabrera de Mar? I don't know, listen, who doesn't have, no, forty-thousand euros in the wallet, in envelopes? Who doesn't carry them? Please. How do you explain this, Mr Aragonès? Is this also an invention and an operation made against independence? You, who have repeated so much that Spain steals from us, what was this councilman of Republican Left doing with an envelope with forty_ thousand_euros? Where did this money come from? What did you want him for, Mr. Aragonès? I think you have to give quite a few explanations and not a quarter-hour speech that you have made here in this plenary of corruption, which is being made thanks to Citizens, that no one is mistaken, that here, if we talk about corruption, it is thanks to Citizens. And you have tried to postpone this plenary just until the last day, until the last moment, and you have done so because you have no other option left. What did Mr Solé say that what have we done in Citizens with thirty-six Members? See, for example, about corruption in this Parliament, which seemed to have been vetoed, seemed to have been banned. For example, also, thanks to the thirty-six citizens' deputies we have passed a law so that you stop getting your hands on the orphans' pensions, which was happening here in Catalonia. That was happening in Catalonia that the orphan's pension money remained. It's what happened in Catalonia, it has no name. What happened in Catalonia has no name. And you go on and on. The big measure you've announced today, those mailboxes for anonymous whistleblowers. What happened to that Republican Left Councillor of Torredembarra City Hall, who reported 3 percent? What happened, gentlemen of the Republican Left, that he rested in peace, by the way? What happened? How did they protect her from her own party mate by denouncing the institutionalized corruption of 3_per_cent? It is that they are not to give lessons, sincerely; they are not to give lessons. This same plenary, you bring here a motion for a resolution to urge the Government or to demand that the Government create an amnesty law, Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya and the UPC and say, literally, that the amnesty law must also include the crime of embezzlement of public flows, provided that they serve for sedition. That's your fight against corruption...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.10.0	Congresswoman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.11.0	...don't come here to teach lessons, no doubt. And I believe – and I believe – that we need a new stage in Catalonia and, of course, it will not come from the hands of the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.12.0	Congresswoman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.13.0	...that for so many years they have stolen from the Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.14.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.15.0	President, Vice-President, Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members, the truth is that when we saw that the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group proposed this debate was going to make a big deal out of it, right? I believe that in the last part-sessions of the Parliament of Catalonia we have spoken, we have debated this debate today in your Parliament, because, look, in the last part-sessions of the Parliament of Catalonia we have spoken, we have debated over and over again around corruption, we have approved countless motions for resolutions, we have made a number of proposals, and even so, it is a_me, if I do not recall badly, we have also been debating a motion that respects this question raised for the same Parliamentary Group of Citizens. We have made, as the goddess, commissions of inquiry, commissions of study, motions for resolutions, motions, a wide list of proposals so that the Government of the Generality implements them in that they are their competitions. Finally, we have made proposals to transfer to the Congress of Deputies everything that the competence, constitutionally speaking, corresponds to the Government of Spain or to the legislative initiative of the State. A long time ago, journalist José Martí Gómez said, and I put it between comets: "There will be no political regeneration in this country until there is a recovery in ethical values that are now drifting. I need this subpoena because later, in my intervention, I'll talk about it again. Like society, we continually reflect and change in a culture that, until a short time ago, was probably understandable to corruption and corruption, because that can't be so. We again say here today, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, various things. One, the most respect the work of those institutions created by the law of the Parliament for the sake of transparency, for the clarity of all the processes where there are public resources or political decisions that end up affecting the country's joint venture, in particular the Union of Accounts and the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. But, look, after the set of commissions of inquiry and study that we have created in this Parliament in the last few years, the last two years, it is true that they follow irregular attitudes of illegitimate profit from the institutions for financing more than doubts of some political formation, and, in the past, the particular gathering of public resources. I don't want to talk to you about this intervention in any concrete case; we haven't talked about this much in the recent past. We have seen triangulations between leaders of governments, entrepreneurs and party thresors, who, in fact, are still following their instructions in the corresponding courts. I believe that in Catalan society and in Spanish society there is a desire for the majority to end these practices. And although they all seem to persist, and some want to follow up on the students applied to that seminar, which I think was called 3_per_cent, that I have the feeling that it was mandatory to attend the late Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, and that today you have your heretics and heretics in various formations of the independence center. The European Commission, in a recent study, estimated that the impact of practical ills on the public finances of the twenty-eight countries of the Union amounted to EUR 120,000_million per year. It's a stratospheric amount, isn't it? And he also told us that tax fraud in the European Union, which is still another form of corruption, above the squandering EUR 1 billion, huh? We could also talk about the tax fraud that is produced in Catalonia and Spain. Undoubtedly, from our point of view, the obtaining of illicit benefits is always at the expense of public resources, and consequently of citizens, who ultimately bear the cost of political corruption. Corruption has a totally dissolving character for democracy, and, at the same time, an institutionally weak democracy results in a specially adobed camp because corruption fields without obstacles. That is why I would say that the maximum respect is given to the institutions created by Parliament; they are doing their job. Also to those resolutions that we approved in Parliament's plenary and that some of them, not all of them, some of them, the Government of Catalonia has been implementing. We also want to express clearly, clearly, constitutional and statutory respect for the work of the prosecution and the courts of justice in the investigation and subsequent trial of acts that may violate the law. Where some see persecution, we see it defending and respecting the state of law. Presumption of innocence? Also, because it's the other pot in which the right is absent. And it is precisely for these two principles, presumption of innocence, on the one hand, and respect the work of the courts, the courts and the prosecution, that today I will not qualify any of the last cases we have known. Let the courts, let the prosecutor's office, let the investigation judge do his job. Now, and going back to that quote that made them at the beginning of my intervention, going back to ethics, I do want to make a few political assessments of what we have known, through filtrations, certainly. Is the leaks reportable? Yeah. Is there any usual mass? Also. Should we look for mechanisms because it's not produced? Also. But the truth is, we've known these leaks. I think that, despite the fact that these leaks are constantly being reported to all the judicial files... – and here we would have to ask the prosecution and the magistrates and magistrates, man, that they are going to be a bit old because these leaks, while there is a secret from the summary, are not produced – but, unfortunately, some and some, from my point of view, would like them in Catalonia an anesthetized society, right? , around principles that are legitimate, but which have proved not to benefit the city of Catalonia. And we don't want an anesthetized society, we want to talk about things as they are, or as each of us sees them. Because there is political corruption, which is about taking public funds for particular benefit or political formations, but there is also corruption of words, concepts, ethics. President Pujol already practiced it. One day he said to us: "From then on, the only people we can talk about morals are us, said he. And, dear, one day the country woke up knowing that what they're saying, they say, they're saying it's turned into the ugly family negotiating – clear people, of course – some of them still in the process of investigation – no, of investigation, no, because the instruction is over – in the process of a proper trial. Dear Marta Ferrusola, when the Democratic Convergence came out of the government... – I'm not talking to you about political archaeology, am I? You will now understand why I'm telling you all this – when he came out of the Convergence Democratic Government of Catalonia, on a television show, he said: "It's as if we've come home..., suspense points. The following... the phrase, everyone knows it, I won't repeat it. You see the problem here, don't you? It is the problem that continues to exist in our society, that some and some of the country's assets are created. And on the basis of that, some of the things that have happened have happened, which we believe should not have happened in Catalonia. Before that, it was distributed in good and bad Catalan books. Now we've discovered that they're also handing out books of good and bad independenceists. Certainly, the good ones were always on the side of Catalonia's Democratic Convergence, or as you say now. Certainly, the socialists, from this universe, have already expelled us. But be careful, because in Catalonia there is a perception that Catalonia needs a change after suffering the worst government of the country's modern history. We were promised a Disney country. And to the later converses known in this judicial instruction, beyond the responsibilities there may be – that this will already be the courts that define them, right? If there have been – we have known, with shame some and some, that some and some pass the ethics through the « lining. I'm lucky they don't have the world looking at us, huh? – lucky they have that the world does not look at us. We have had more respect for President Quim Torra the Socialist Parliamentary Group, despite the deep discrepancies with his policies, the frontal differences with his policies, than some of you. For example, Mr Madí – businessman, politician and advisor linked to the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, if I don't recall badly, since the year 1993, one of the closest collaborators of the President Arthur Mas, promoter of Junts' candidacy for the Yes, always to the orbit of Junts – has left us memorable fish. I, with whom they are public knowledge, will repeat them again – I hope no one gets angry, they are not mine. He says: "Torna is a lame goat and now she's free, "she's an ignorant, etcetera. "It is not prepared; "it is great for the freighter; "I do not understand that he is an accidental man, who has no legitimacy; " supposely, he must have been a useful example and the freighter was crept, which makes him dangerous. « Or if they... – I don't repeat the word, because we are still in open hours, aren't we? –; says: «... because they brought him the control or did not let him do his animals, talking about the last crisis of government. Nor do they waste their opinions on the leader of the Republican Left and vice-president of the Government of Catalonia, Mr Junqueras, when he claims that he has a point of imbalance. Or the president of the PDECAT, Mr David Bonvehi, who defines as « a piece of meat – I do not add the words of the past to respect the people of our society. And the statement already known and repeated in comments from other independent leaders that no one has or has any idea how we materialize independence. Surprise or not – surely not, when we find that TV3 is hers, or that they believe and want some and some of you –, Mrs. Rahola, who, according to the CAC, is the Tertullian, opinionator, indoctrinator who has more minutes, still asks for more minutes because, according to her – in these conversations we have learned –, she is the only one who represents Together for Catalonia, affirming, as if she were a Soviet commissioner, that when they win again they will make Mr. Sanchis, director of TV3, pay no more on television. We could talk about more pearls. But the most surprising is the complicit silence of Junts. We haven't listened to them with minimally critical justification for everything that came out. The only known criticism is that of the instruction: "Persecution, persecution! They say. But they do not want to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that behind these statements there is also corruption – from my point of view – of ethics and ideas. Because in the fund it pretends – or pretends – to make negotiations taking advantage of the influence network, the customer network, or on topics as crematistic as having more minutes on public television in Catalonia as Tertullian. "With everything I've done for the country without asking for anything to change and I'm touching the..., suspense points, "... for the theme of the concert. They're wasting my time. She's a little quick, she's calling the health counselor for the lab thing. Trick the Bargalló and Trick the Chakir for the whole Villa Bugatti theme. That unscrewed the school grants and so on, was in a call to Marta Rovira a senior leader of Republican Esquerra, Mr. Xavier Vendrell. I listened to him in this Parliament talking about the clean hands. No to the current MPs, no. Also Mr. Xavier Vendrell. In this very Parliament, about one month ago, we have also listened – surely today we will again listen to it – this persecution, persecution against independence. I'd get them a little more prudence. It is not up to me or my parliamentary group to have legal qualifications and recourse. It's a presumption of innocence. Now, the political impression that can be expressed was that it was intended to influence government decisions through those who could do so. And that goes – or can't say – traffic of influences. Mark differences with all these things that have happened, because the questions remain unanswered. Why were they tasked by the employer to intercede in the management of the health crisis on the residents of large people? That, certainly– let's'move a parenthesis–, has been a management disaster since the consulting firm of Treball, Afers Socials and Families. I'm in parentheses. Because even to the committee that was created in Parliament to appreciate what went and what is going on in the residences of great people there was a slug; a low slug around which work they did, and neither did it become clear who made these charges. Or how these charges were produced. Councilwoman Vergés – before she said it, too – has also made clear to us whether her long dinar was to talk about the biomechanical laboratories of Mr Vendrell with the Catalan Institute of Medical Evaluations; contracts that the following seem not to be all regular. No explanation was given. The only thing we know is that the dinar was profitable. It's supposed to be for the interests, not the other reasons. I suppose it's for the interest. Home, an explanation from the councilwoman – even though we are at the end of this legislature – would be advisable, would be desirable. We could also talk about urban changes – I have to recognize that the name has its own thing, Villa Bugatti. We knew that that was where everyone had to go, as if it were our house. I'd also like you to explain what happened here. To sum up, because I do not want to exhaust the thirty minutes that the Rules give me: in times of great difficulties, great uncertainties, anxiety for the health pandemic that we live, getting contracts from the Administration of the Generality taking advantage and pressing their contacts to make their positions profitable, from our point of view they are neither moral nor aesthetic. The question we could ask ourselves, and what do we have, is if there wasn't any in the direction of the process that brought us to the U of October, they would be in this position to have direct access to government advisors? A question that we leave open. Look, I'm telling you honestly: we want there to be no kind of favouritism in contracting in this emergency period given the health crisis situation. My words, in this sense, of the chairman of my parliamentary group, Mr Miquel Iceta, that the background of his question to the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Aragonès, was to let the judge Aguirre and the prosecution work in this case and we will see what will happen. Because transparency is always the best tool to ensure correct use of public resources. That's why – I know it's hard that there's no counselor now – beyond the visionaries he was talking to us a while ago, the announcement that one of our resolution proposals will be to ask for a report from the General Intervention of the Generality to know all the resources made during this period and the relationship of all the contractors. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, let me strike my intervention by referring to a book that has been written for some time, which has the title Against Corruption, a reflection on the conflict between ethics and power that Mr Joan Ridao wrote – not the Veg; today Parliament's major reader – reflecting on political indecency and corruption. So I look, yes, I must fight against the indecent, against all corruption. The economics, but also that of the words. This last sentence is mine: the words, the concepts. It is essential to strengthen public confidence in democratic institutions, public servants – whether elected or functioning – but also to help build a less inclusive society with tripijocs. Thank you, MPs, MPs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.16.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can have the word Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.17.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, I wanted to start my intervention, so, with a fact that today, obviously, we can't go through with it, which is that we had at the defendants' banquet, again, a general councillor. And in this sense, therefore, we wanted to show the support of our parliamentary group to Councillor Sole and the rest of the people who were unjustly retaliated for a political conflict. Well, getting into the subject they're proposing to us today, honestly, we don't really understand what this House's purpose is, because at this very year's fever we already celebrated a specific plethora on this very issue, also proposed for Citizens. It's not that we don't want to talk about corruption, it's not that we don't think corruption is an important issue and public interest, which is actually it, but we have the feeling that this House only responds to the propagandistic will of the proposed group to be able to use the videos derived from their interventions to campaign. And the truth is that you, who are years old, complain about the degradation of institutions, what you are doing here today, to use Parliament as if it were its particular television set, so we believe that it does degrade the dignity of the institution. But if you want to talk about structural and systemic corruption, we are willing to discuss everything you need, but we are serious, yes, talking about corruption is talking about how we solve the problem of corruption, not coming here to accuse each other, because this will surely serve you to tweet, to headline, but it does not serve to solve the problem of corruption, the systemic problem of corruption. And, of course, this problem has effects on the citizenry. And precisely because it is a systemic problem, we understand the solutions that go through the compromise of all the political actors that we are represented here. We cannot face all the structural causes of corruption. Therefore, I think this debate would be much more productive if we all came with more willingness to listen and build consensus at the end. But no, you come here and you shoot at everything and everyone, and you stand up to the purest and most advantaged of the class, don't you? That's right, from his conception of corruption, because in everything that you defend, you always put your own ideological and anti-Catalanist mark on it; this is never over. In any case, for my part and for the accusations you have made to Podemos and its leaders, look: no charges against our political space have been proven, cap. Not only that, but there are, in fact, more than fifteen causes that have been closed down, that have been filed, and in which justice has made it clear that the accusations of corruption against our space had no purpose. And this has to do with what I gave him before I didn't use the corruption charge as a party weapon. Miri, no other party, no more, has been as transparent as we are: all information about our political space is available and open to relevant web space. In any case, the regeneration of the institutions we believe, it said before, that it will come with the work of all and cooperation between the different. But the first one to be credible in this area is to be exemplary, and frankly we believe that Ciutadans can't give lessons either, because, if they want us to play to quote cases, I can't quote a few, I just need to search the Internet to see cases where their party is involved, and it comes out: case Cazorla and Espartinas, in Andalusia; case Logronyo; case Renderera; case Red, in Valencia; case Soler, in Murcia. In fi, of cases we can find it for all bands. We think it's not about that, and we also know which political parties you're collecting in the realm of government. I guess they don't know who the most corrupt party in Europe is, and how you systematically collect it where you can form governments. In any case, let us talk about proposals and anti-corruption measures. Miri, on 9 September 2015, coinciding with the International Day of United Nations Fight against Corruption, political parties and more than fifty entities from all walks of life and social sectors signed here to the Parliament of Catalonia the declegation of the Social Pact against Corruption. One of the commitments of the signature of this decade was to push the Citizen Observers against Corruption and a parliamentary committee to deal with the measures. And, look, this is where one of the keys is, we understand, of the fight against corruption: in the city. A citizenry that, as in many other questions, has passed before the institutions, has shown to go before the institutions also in this matter. Institutions are often reluctant to push real changes to stop corrupt problems and practices; an organized citizenry that wants to audit, denounce, propose legislative changes and in the ways in which institutions, parties and companies function. That, the Social Pact against Corruption signed in 2015, was an important step because it expressed a consensus of a country that is still in force today, which is that we do not want corruption here in Catalonia or elsewhere. From our point of view, however, not all political parties have given it the same importance, to this issue. It is only possible to review cases of corruption uncovered from abroad, replies or no replies from different parties, or to prove how many parties have or have clear codes of ethics in questions such as pay limits, multiplicity of charges, rotating doors or limitation of mandates. We don't all have that. We know that corruption is a problem that has to be addressed with a multidisciplinary approach and that there is no easy solution or magic reception, but we also know that this work is urgent, because, even in the last few years, important steps have been taken, as the goddess said, we believe that there is still a long way to go. And it's an urgent task because corruption is one of the major threats that democratic societies have. Corruption has a clear negative impact on citizens' confidence in the political system and institutions. Corruption harms democracy and its legitimacy, as institutions and political actors who end up with corrupt practices only participate in the democratic process to gain private benefits and do not pursue general interest. Corruption is the main enemy of the common good, which should guide the activity of all actors and all institutions in the country. In fact, we believe that corruption is the antithesis of republicanism because it opposes the common good, but also because it is a force in the abuse of power, in the possibility of domination in favor of those who occupy a position of power that allows them to be corrupt. Corruption is against solidarity, it's against fraternity, it's against cooperation. It is ultimately contrary to Republican freedom, that freedom which is understood as non-dominance. On the other hand, corruption is easily compatible with liberal freedom, that which is understood as the non-interference of the State in our lives or the non-interference of the State in the market; that which opposes the regulation of the market. This freedom is compatible with corruption, because we do not forget that corruption is not only a practice installed in public power; it is also a practice installed in economic and financial power, clearly. In the form of tax evasion, in the form of dumping, in the form of traffic in influence, in the form of oligopolistic practices to fix, therefore, abusive prices, for example. All this is also practical of dubious ethical quality, which was mentioned to us before Congressman Terrades. Practices that can actually be legal; many of these practices are allowed in our legislation, in spite, many of them, of the freedom of the market. But the legality of ethics doesn't always go hand in hand. And that's not why these practices are no longer inspired by what I gave them before, by what moves corrupt practices, which is the abuse of power. Or isn't it an abuse of power that the big distribution and marketing industries agri-food force the small page to sell under the cost of production? Isn't that a power bust? Or, for example, the fact that the Catalonia Tax Agency has already raised seventy-three infringement acts for tax house changes fictitious between 2015 and 2019 in order to avoid paying taxes or to reduce the import of estates or donations. Isn't that a power bust, too? Or the fact that he denounced the report published in November for the NGO Tax Justice Network, in which he estimated at 3,700_million euros the loss of entry to Spain for tax evasion. Isn't that a power bust? The first thing I can do to end corruption is to end privileges. Look, the state's general assumptions for the year coming, by the year 2021, the companies will start paying taxes increasing their tax from 0_per_cent to 15_per_cent, because so far this was one of the main methods for tax fraud. And I'd like to remind you that you're making middle-aged jobs pay 30 percent of middle-aged, against middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, middle-aged, Therefore, these mechanisms that are legal are also mechanisms that allow in the end are abuses of power. And it is true that in order to avoid corruption, public administrations are completely transparent and very curious about their procedures. And the pandemic can't be an excuse for that. They are alerting them from the Anti-Fraud Office: the case of the trackers does not hold for place. The government did not have enough to give without competition the tracking contract to Ferrovial, but it has now extended it for another year for 10_million euros, when it is obvious that the tracking is not working. In fact, no one is clear about how many trackers there are exactly. Perhaps this is not what most people understand by corruption, but we do believe that it should be, and we do ask the government to act and correct, and above all to review all these procedures that, in the pandemic, may be justified, when they may be in a practical situation that would be unacceptable in a context of normality. But, the systemic counterpart of the practices of dubious ethical quality is not only given in the economic sphere or financed, it is given in many other spheres. And it is given because we live in an outdated and exhausted regime, which has impunity determined practical ones. Monarchic impunity, the Bourbons, who rob us in the face and reverence us. How come you didn't make any reference to yourself, Mr. Ciutadans, or Mr. Carrizosa – certainly not yet there – or Mrs. Roldán didn't make any reference to monastic corruption, to this impunity? Aren't you the ones looking at another side with this kind of corruption? The case of Joan Carles de Borbo..., in this case we are clearly seeing a normalization of corruption by certain parties and media. And that makes the corruption of the monarchy no longer news, because the news will be when we can spend a week without knowing the new scene of the former head of state. Lords of the monarchic parties– of the PP, of Ciutadans, of the PSC –, the monarchic rule no longer holds. You really don't see it? He sees a republican act that will pass them through the mountains, in Catalonia and at the conjunct of the State. I don't understand, really, how they look at each other. But monarchy is not the only one. We also have judicial impunity, with a general council of the judiciary abusing its functions. A supreme court that pronounces manifestly unjust judgments, using antiquities such as sedition crime, and a constitutional court that prohibits the free debate in this chamber and that has de facto become the third legislative chamber. Isn't that a power bust? Does that seem normal? We also have – and I take advantage of the Councillor of the Interior here – police impunity, of those who do not have internal or external evaluation mechanisms, where we often see practices of institutional racism without consequences and where we abuse the supposed police truth to prosecute protesters in democratic protests. Certainly, with the generality acting as a private accusation. We also have media impunity from public media, from the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Or, if not, how does it explain that today there has not yet been a documentary on Pujol's leave when it was requested by active and passive and approved in this chamber? Why don't public media make a documentary about this topic? That it's not enough to bring this up for our country? And it is that a solid democracy requires that citizens can trust their institutions and that abuses of power with private benefits do not go unpunished. Only from the maximum institutional transparency and the application of good practices in the exercise of power and by devoting the necessary administrative and institutional resources to it can one of the main problems for the citizens of Catalonia be solved. By luck, not everyone is coming or buying. There are those who defend the common good, the rights of everyone and the collective benefit over private wealth. And I'm convinced that we're most of the people here today in this room. I'm sure all of them. Politics, it managed the common good, it can be net, it can be honest and it can be transparent. And it has to be, and we have to claim it. But we have to accept that corruption has become a form of government in Catalonia and the State, and it is one of the great shames of this country, which for many years has had rulers who have not been up to the people. In this sense, I would like to celebrate that this summer, on the 17th of July, we celebrated the 1st Summit against Corruption, organized for which I commented before, for the Observer City against Corruption, and that, in fact, it was done in compliment of a resolution of the Plenary that also commented before we did it in the month of fever. Seventeen measures were agreed at that summit, among which, therefore, the need to approve a new law on party financing and reduce election expenses, which, now that elections are nearing, would have been useful if we had done so. But no, we haven't done it yet. In the same way, we also agreed that we should review the system of preventive control of public charges and the system of incompatibilities, increase transparency and control over public contracts, protect whistleblowers or whistleblowers, prohibit public contracts with companies related to tax havens, increase human and technological resources for the fight against corruption. In all these measures, all groups of this chamber agree. The conclusion of that first summit was that we all agree that corruption generates inefficient allocation of resources, which generates a climate of clear legal insecurity, which affects the country's economy, which undermines the collective trust of citizens in their institutions. In this sense, there are various measures that the Government of the Generality could have already promoted, because they have been approved several times with different proposals for resolution of this Parliament, and that we believe they will be of the utmost use. There are above all reforms referring to the political party to ensure its transparency. Because, if we look at the barometer that this year developed the Anti-Fraud Office, we'll see as 43 percent of Catalans and Catalans believe that political parties are illegally financing us. And figures like this should ask us and make us aware of all the work we have before us if we really want, therefore, that people trust in our democracy. As far as the measures he was commenting on were concerned. First, promote the advertising of political party websites, advertise total debts with banking entities and return forms. Secondly, establish and promote an ethical code of the elected, binding bodies, with a supervisory organ and a sanctioning regime in case of failure. Are we not prepared for this taxation? And, lastly, to reduce the electoral expenditure by pushing a single mailing of all the candidates who are running for election to the Parliament of Catalonia, which seems to be that we can face these elections because we are in a context of pandemic, but that it should be normal and that we hope that these elections will arrive in order to stay. But there are also many other measures that the Government of the Generality could have promoted throughout this legislature, because, I repeat, theoretically, there are already consensuss that this Parliament has acquired. The first measure..., and which is essential, the Solé Councillor has just announced to us that it will be a reality from tomorrow, and that, therefore, we celebrate, that this..., the ethical bousties that guarantee the anonymity of the reporting or alerting persons of possible cases of corruption. We think it's a basic element. The second measure, which we also believe to be essential: to promote and consolidate codes of good local government and conduct in this way help to consolidate the behaviour of elected officials with the aim of setting up a common public ethics, which is a rabid update, unfortunately, in view of the alleged corruption of these days at the Hospital, to which I will refer again. The third essential measure is to strengthen the control bodies; this is as basic as providing sufficient resources for the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, the Union of Accounts, as well as strengthening, therefore, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the Tax Agency of Catalonia in the areas of the fight against corruption, economic crime and tax fraud. And the fourth and final essential measure, which we also understand is so basic that we are surprised that we still have to complain about it, and I refer to the fact that the law of transparency in Catalonia has been implemented, that we hope, therefore, that it can be produced effectively in short, in our own legislature. As I said earlier, corruption is one of the main problems in this country; it is a direct torpedo to the foundations of democracy. This is how the citizens and citizens expressed it; the 2020 barometer of the Anti-Fraud Office tells us that 79,5_percent of the surveys and surveys consider corruption in Catalonia to be a difficult or quite difficult problem. But it is that, in addition, the citizen's view of transparency in institutions is critical, since almost a 60_per_cent considers them to be little or no transparent people. There is a 60_percent of the citizenry who believes that institutions are few or transparent people. It's obvious we're still having a problem. And these figures should be reflected on. Now, that can't be a motive either, as I said before, so to serve corruption for political and party motives. Because we have seen it in this country and we have heard it again today: allegations of corruption that do not stand on evidence, but on reports of investigations that are at least strange and dubious. And I think that when some people claim to use these investigations to make the public debate stupid, they don't do the fight against corruption any favors, especially when they're accusations of corruption girls with clear party interests. We have heard today, in the case of Volhov, that we have heard on repeated occasions. We're talking about a case that we don't have enough information to make some accusations as round and as blunt as we've seen today. And I think that in this everyone should be very curious, too, with the information coming from, because this case has nothing to do with other cases such as that of the Hospital of Llobregat. The case of the Hospital is a complaint made by a member of the same government team, and what we have seen just now is a certain media silence about the issue. And I want to remind you that we are talking about the deviation of funds for the value of the order of one hundred and a thousand euros per year, funds derived from grants from the Secretary of Sport, annually, since the year 2015. We wear six months, from our municipal group to the Hospital of Llobregat, asking for explanations about this case, and neither Mayor Marin nor his party have given satisfactory explanations yet. In fact, as they did not want to act on this subject, as they did not want to act already in their day– and I am talking about fa sis_mesos–, so it was our municipal group of L'Hospitalet in Comú Podemos that was to characterise itself as the particular accusation. And, mirin, we ask you four very simple things to respect, in cases like this: transparency, explanations – explain yourself –, celerity – act quickly so as not to affect the credibility of our institutions – and, above all, if this information is confirmed, forceful in the performance, decisive actions. I've been clogging. The risks of corruption, fraud and other irregularities in the exercise of public power will not disappear from a crisis as we are living; quite the contrary, the vulnerabilities inherent in the exercise of public power are accentuated by the fact that the usual incentives and opportunities for risks to integrity in public decisions and actions now do not add to us or expand because of the confluence of various factors in a context of pandemic. The substantial volume of public resources intended to curb the Covid-19 pandemic and alleviate the resulting social and economic crisis can generate incentives for people or organisations who decide to make 'private profit from this exceptional situation and full of uncertainties. In fact, it seems that there are investigations into this very question to Catalonia. The current situation makes it possible for public authorities to activate exceptional mechanisms and forms of administrative processing that also increase opportunities for irregular, fraudulent or corrupt acts. In the same way, as it is already in a normal situation, pre-existing shortcomings in the regulation of lobby activity increase opportunities for undue influence in public decisions. In particular, those relating to the new regulation issued during the state of alarm and to decisions taken for the distribution of limited resources. Thus, the increase in incentives and opportunities to put at risk the integrity of public decisions and actions in crisis situations such as today is unquestionable. Losses of public resources are always difficult, both for governments and for the society as a whole, but at times like the present one these losses can mark the difference between life and death, food on the table or fam, a floor under which to isolate or sensellarism. And I'm done with it. If we really want to put a stop to corruption and ensure that we do not go through shame again for the behavior of a few, what is called decided actions, that wanders into the background of the problem. We wear many years talking about corruption. Now it's time for us all to take action, not to accuse each other, but to bring solutions to a problem that's real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.18.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of Mrs Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.19.0	Thank you, President. Well, I wanted to ask Mr. Carrizosa, but I don't see him in this very important ple of corruption. He said he remembered that when he went hunting on private grounds, didn't he? ; maybe he talks about La Flamenca in Aranjuez. A few days ago, or during these days, the prosecution told us that it had believed that the former mayor of Tarragona Josep Fèlix Ballesteros was a necessary co-operator for the 270,000_euro shift from the public to the PSC. CUP, private charge. I don't think anyone will deny our unbridled commitment in the fight against corruption. We also listened to the case of Núria Marín, which has already been mentioned, and the Hospital Sports Council. Railroad, AVE, line 9 of the subway... the news about corruption is constant. And that is why, Mrs. Roldán, the persecution of corruption and, as you say in the presentation of this motion for a resolution, of endollism, friendship, fraud or customerism that you are planning to fight is not possible without questioning the Spanish State's devices. Why? We start with one of the powers or apparatuses of the Spanish State, the judiciary. Speak to you in your motion for a resolution calling for this monogram of corruption Ple of the Calvo case. We know him very well because we brought him to Antifrau together with the CGT. Mr. Ricard Calvo, of Esquerra Republicana, while Director General of DGAIA, is awarding himself contracts for a value of more than 1_million euros in favor of his foundation. The ruling, on 13 December 2019, was very clear: to file the case at the prosecution's request. Today, Ricardo Calvo, absolut, practiced professionally as an entity consultant in the third sector. September 29, 2020. The National Court absolves Rat and the other thirty-three accused for the Bankia case. Bankia's stock market pullout, where there was talk of a solvent financing situation, with more than 300 million million benefits, only six months later became a failure of 3,000 million euros and ultimately resulted in a public bailout of 24,000 million euros. I'm following with the rest of the judiciary. February 11, 2019. The Audience of Barcelona absolved the dome of Catalonia Caixa after having granted itself unorbitable and immoral economic remuneration while the entity was being rescued with public money. Remember, no, the surrogates of Narcis Serra and Adolf Todo? The CUP, also characters in this cause. 4 of the VI of 2020. Garraf Promotions. Absolves the former mayor of Sant Pere de Ribes of prevarication and embezzlement for the management of a municipal real estate. The court considers that the evidence brought by the prosecution– we are again, Unitat Municipal 9-CUP – do not show any crime and therefore the hearing does not see any harm to the consistor, but administrative irregularities of José Antonio Blanco. What a surprise, isn't it? Keep going. 13 of the I of 2015. Filed the appeal – which we also filed the CUP – administrative disputes against the sale of Catalunya Banc to BBVA. The State buys Catalonia Bank for 12,000_million euros; months later, it comes to BBVA for 1,187_million euros. This seems to be that for justice it's not a scam. We're still wondering how it wasn't the Generalita who filed this complaint. Catalonia Banc could have been the perfect embryo of the future Catalan public bank. Keep going. This operation was closed for under 10_percent of what it cost the State to rescue Catalonia Caixa; a situation for us intolerable, for justice or just object to being investigated. A financier bull, BBVA, who has stayed with six of the Catalan caskets and who, moreover, is the entity most directly involved is in the Belgian cycle, who is affected by cases of corruption, who recognizes having deposits in tax havens and who has named thousands of families and has also cheated preferentially. Two hundred and twenty-six politically pardoned for corruption. For the Government of Catalonia? No; for the Council of Ministers, institutional power. Mr. Carrizosa commented that with the stellate the shames are covered, I believe that it is capitalism that covers certain shames. I suppose you have heard of the pardons to José Barrionuevo, Rafael Vera, Julián Sancristóbal, Francisco Álvarez, Miguel Planchuelo and, not so long ago, the Government of the State pardoned the former secretary general of the Department of Treball in Pujol, Josep Maria Servitje and Víctor Manuel Lorenzo Acuña. I suppose that's all there is to it with the independence process. Both sentenced to prison sentences in the case of Treball, four years and a half and two years and three months of prison, which were commuted to fines of EUR 3,600 respectively. We don't think we're talking about what it meant for the public era and for the contributors to the Castor project, with the complicity of the Autonomous Administration of the Valencia Country and also the Government of the State. We are also talking, if they want, about the hard rock, the fraud that we consider to be that this government is putting all efforts into rescuing the box and getting to turn the generality into a real estate and creditor promoter at the same time; an unnecessary and inviable project that harms the territory and a government that does not want to clarify all the irregularities and opacities of the project. The CUP will take you to Antifrau. Works of the AVE to Sagrera, eleven years, six times more presupposition than the forecast, extra costs archived and still at 40_percent of the work. The trains seem to be already running, but they don't stop. Antifrau criticizes the high contracting of large companies like Ferrovial during the pandemic; Miguel Ángel Gimeno regrets that there is no permanent audit on the awards. This Parliament approves the termination of the contract with Ferrovial and the government is omitting and this chamber is missing. Nor can we face this corruption, the friendship that you speak of without posing the corrupt Spanish monarchy in question. A runaway king, shamefully, on account of the public miscarriage and the negative systematics on the part of the Congress of Deputies to investigate the corrupt Spanish monarchy; an institution that October 3 makes an absolutely authoritarian speech, against the right to self-determination of the people, because they know perfectly well that the exercise of the right to self-determination, that national construction and a process of social transformation is the only solution to these hereditary institutions of Francoism and that they are in themselves corrupt. A monarchical institution that, like the rest of the state's apparatuses, is clearly positioned in the fight against the right to self-determination. Nor can we face corruption without questioning the Constitution as a legal framework that prevents the people from having national sovereignty, but also of any kind. We can talk, for example, about the modification of Article 135 of the Constitution with night and tradition, that which posed the interests of the financial markets before the interests and the rights of the people and which was converted into a few details that we mostly paid the working majority of this country. Some communication media dedicated to the support of power and, like, some forces and security of the State – and here I'm talking about the autonomous police as well as the state police, the Spanish police – dedicated to hatred and repression against any class of political dissent. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, Villarejo does not act alone, nor does political espionage against the independenceist left and popular movements. As Marina Garcés says, the concentration of corruption cases in our country is a confluence of three phenomena. The first and most contemporary has to do with the poignant character of capitalism, which for more than two centuries has established a global competition for the accumulation of resources and wealth. The second phenomenon has to see, as it stands, with the institutional, family and business powers that were born and consolidated during the franchise; the beneficiaries of the regime to any territory of the State have been perpetuated through the system of parties created during the Transition. The third is older, it has to see the construction of Spain as the state was born. The story of Spain as modern is that of the reconquest of Al-Andalus and that of the conquest of America. Therefore, it is a country made for conquerors, that is, countess and king robbers, sailors pilasters, investors, commanders, blacks. Only exceptionally has the people been the protagonist of the modern history of this peninsula and, every time it has been, it has ended badly. This has two consequences: predatory power and a people who have never felt that the country is theirs. Therefore, there is no public feeling in the two bands. As Jordi Muñoz, a politician and researcher at the Department of Constitutional Law and Political Science of the University of Barcelona, says, if there is corruption in our country is fundamental because there is an institutional system that allows it and encourages impunity. And above all, because the predominant economic model has shifted away from speculative character activities that favor corruption. As David Vidal, former CUP registrar for Reus, said that the Innova case came out: "From the capitalist system it is not possible to end corruption, it is intrinsic, as the predominant one is the freedom of the market, free competition between individuals, the search for the maximum benefit, the constant and expanded growth, and, above all, a failure not to intervene by the State in the economy, which practically means that the State only intervenes to guarantee the interests and eliminate the risks of private capital. Or is it that the banking and bailout process is not a paradigmatic case of legal corruption? And lastly, and in Isabel Vallet's words: "The problem is structural, and it obviously solved it, too. There is no room for transparency in institutions or a new political ethic – someone has spoken of "political ethics; I believe that MP Terrades –" for genuine guarantees and disincentives to corrupt conducts, institutions must be set up again. In a quick respite of corruption practices to the autonomous institutions of the Catalan Countries, it is worth highlighting, among others, the illegal financing of parties, the traffic of influences, the misappropriation and misappropriation of public cables, corrupt urban speculation, the abuse of public and private concertation as a debt and appropriation tool, tax fraud. A glue of practices that let us see the diversity of stages and institutions involved, ultimately, the whole system. Therefore, if we consider that corruption has been recurrent, habitual, endemic and unpunished, but also linked, standardized and supported to the exercise of political power, in complicity with spheres or environments of economic power and finance, then it is undeniable that the solution also passes to change the same socioeconomic model. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.20.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.21.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, vice president, deputies, deputies, gave Mr. Carrizosa in his first intervention to justify the celebration of this debate on corruption that immigrating from a pandemic is difficult or even anomalous the fact that we need to devote a specific debate to talking about corruption. And I think gravity is still more because this year is not the first debate on corruption that has to be raised in this Parliament, that is to say, they have already made two: it was another specific debate in the month of fever, which, in that case, was an operation in which they put in suspended replete on subsidies on sports clubs, sports platforms, cooperation entities. And now what is somehow under certain suspicion is the management of residences, urban requalifications, and, even so, the same process, isn't it? , because, in the end, the investigations stem from an investigation into aspects, let's say, collateral of the same process. And I wanted to make a first thought – I think even the vice president in his intervention was a little bit here – about the relationship between corruption and democracy, right? Precisely because democracy is based on the trust that citizens have in their representatives and, indirectly, in their rulers. And when this trust is betrayed, it affects us all. It does not affect only those who have committed a certain act or activity of corruption, but it affects us all, because citizenship qualifies us all absolutely in the same way, in this sense, and therefore corruption affects us all absolutely. Of course, we follow the party that we are following, that is, it is not good to go out here often to explain "I know what I am absolutely clear, the culprits are the others, the culprits are the Madrid ones". No, because at the end of the day, the citizenry qualifies us exactly the same as all of us. And so what settles in is a major mistrust of politics, and that's what they end up doing, somehow, is demeaning the same democracy. I already know that there are some political forces that this democracy, so it makes us, they want some other system different from democracy, right? But I do not think that is the case with the majority, or with the parliamentary groups that we are here, or with the majority of the citizenry. Therefore, before the acts of corruption there are, I would say, two types of reactions. One is that of long-term reforms and measures that focus government action on the general interest, and, therefore, allow control, and precisely focus on the general interest, stretching the particular interests that may exist. And, in this sense, the private interests, if I may, I have also classified them, in a way: there are the individual private interests oriented towards the personal wealth of some people, but there are also particular group interests – of group. And this is where we would surely enter the chapter of systemic or institutionalized corruption. And the particular interests of the group have, at least, two great differences: those acts of corruption which they aim to benefit from a certain political force, and, if they allow me, as for example, we have the Millet case, tried and sentenced, also investigated in the Parliament of Catalonia and where it has been demonstrated, and sentenced and condemned, that there has been a conxorx for such support, in some way, public resources to benefit the political force concretely. But there are more than just parties that are partyists – partyists. And if they wanted it more clearly, I'd tell them about the process, wouldn't I? Procedurally. In general, they can hear it in particular with their process, but also in general, because at the end of the day an illegal reference and do it, in a way, with public resources is also an act of corruption. Or certain activities to promote a certain ideology or a certain political program or a... as you would say, and to do so with the use of public resources, or if they are derivatives and aggravates, they are also acts of corruption. So what I was saying to them: reforms, for one thing, and then they also reduce individual attitudes, but also collective attitudes of the parties, right? And in this sense, the codes of ethics have not been cited. I think the majority of parties have already coded aesthetics, with the peculiarities of each of the political forces. But I want them to insist on what I gave to the beginning: the first ones interested in trying to eradicate the corruption of the political world are the same parties, because they are not for the benefit of the parties, these acts of corruption, on the contrary, harm us. That is why, obviously, we are and must be the main ones interested in trying to eradicate these practices. When we talk about reforms – the Councillor has quoted –, the vigil – one month before, the 15th generation – of the other Ple that we held on corruption, it was introduced by the Government, agreed a strategy of struggle against corruption that contained – told, supposed, still – twenty-five measures to be implemented in a period of two years. I was pleased to see how these measures had been implemented. I believe that you have not mentioned anything in part, but you cannot mention more, because I believe that people have not developed practically – practically people –, right? And so, well, it's very good to talk about transparency, it's very good to talk about anti-corruption strategies, but then we try to complete with what we commit ourselves to and what we ask for, right? For example, the law of transparency. The counselor has explained to us so transparent that they are the government, and I quite disagree with the optimistic view you have given regarding the transparency of this government. But it's a 2014 law, and it gives the government a command to make a regulation to develop it, and the regulation is neither expected nor expected. Therefore, this must also be borne in mind. Now, you know, you know, you know, you can't say that you don't. One thing they have had time to do. For example, with the law accompanying the assumptions – that's what they did – you changed the Law from legal servants of the Generality. Why? So to raise the inadmissibility that there was until this moment that the judicial services of the Generality defend the responsibilities of the government or the high responsibilities of the government before cases of crimes against the Administration. It is to say, before cases of possible corruption or misappropriation of public funds, if a member of the Government or another branch of the Government needed legal services, until the law was amended, went on his behalf; since the law was amended, we already pay it among all. Which is obviously a contradiction. Is that to say, how can the legal services defend the actions of those who have acted or are accused of having acted against the same Administration? And, at a time, who defends the Administration, if the legal services are to defend what has acted against the Administration? It's just an example title, isn't it? , and without the will to say if it was more, it was less, it was a little – sure it was a little – but the later People's Party government took action – it took action – with more certainty or less certainty, which we can discuss. For example, the reform of the Criminal Code – we certainly left us all alone, but fine. We were reforming the Criminal Code precisely to enable political parties to be directly accused in cases of corruption. We reformed the Criminal Court Law; we created the High Court Law; we reformed the General Tax Law; we created the Office of Recovery of Acts. That is to say, measures; concrete measures. And as for the attitudes, which I also referred to, escorting, counselors, did not miss us – we did not miss out – that as in the debate that we held at the fever intervened... – and, more importantly, you, since you did not have..., you did not preside and you assumed the functions of president, you had everything absolutely agreed, that you did not have any more role leftover than Juntas per Catalunya –, the one that you gave to them, at the debate of the month of fever, took part advisors of Esquerra and Juntas per Catalunya. Has it been agreed, Mr. Aragones, that today the Junts for Catalonia have left them alone? You've had to go out and defend him. How much do they have the witness presence of some Councillor from Junts for Catalonia, but, in today's interventions, they left them alone, huh? And that's what you had agreed to, that you didn't have more of an Esquerra advisor to me than one of Junts for Catalonia, huh? , for this marking so close that you are marking each other during all these days up to limits I think that absolutely unsuspecting; but in any case, we will already touch it at another time. And we also have to tell you that we see you very beautiful – very beautiful – with cases that affect other political forces, especially political opponents, right? I don't have to go anywhere. Last week, in relation to the case of the Hospitallet that has already been mentioned, of the president of the parliament, you did not find it very difficult to ask them to resign immediately, a motion of censure, etc., did you not? Now, when it affects you or your governing partners, then they get the comfort of independence: it's a cause against independence, of course, and that doesn't have any basis, it doesn't have any sense of purpose. Well, so that's what's wrong – that's what's wrong. That's to say, we can hear, and we share, that you take advantage of the presumption of innocence, but you can't say that... when you take someone, as you're used to saying, right? With the ice cream cart, they say, "No, no, listen, that's why it's independent, isn't it? , which is the speech you have systematically always, always, whenever they engage them or whenever they have to go to testify before a judge or whenever there is a certain judgment, right? Well, that's the way... I think that – another Member has already mentioned it, right? –, it's been invented for so many years, I think it's year 84, isn't it? What's the purest thing about pujolia, huh? – to the purest style –: if they attack me, they attack Catalonia, right? And, therefore, this is absolutely unthinkable. In relation, too, to the case we have at the table—sport subsidies under investigation, cooperation subsidies under investigation—are things that we are concerned about. Home, it is already worrying that money destined for sport is diverted to other uses, or money that has to go to cooperation with the third world is also diverted to other uses. And now, besides, residence contracts, dinars with the councillor. Of course, counselor, you have a magnificent viewer of the activities of the senior officials, the public agendas of the councillors, I don't know what, I don't know how many, but when he meets with Mr Vendrell, he doesn't appear. Ah! There's something going on here. The contracts of the Institute of Medical Evaluations, management to requalify lands, commitments to make concerted schools – carai, concerted. Listen, so, that's all troubling. All the presumption of innocence you want, but the suspicion is quite certain. And his only answer is this, it's repression of independence. Listen, we can't even share much less. But we've also seen yet another variant – also known to us over the years –: brokering for benefits. All this stuff from the hands of people who seem to block and come out as if they were at home during the U of October, without having any sense of representation. They go in and out of the palace as if they were doing it at home, without any sense of responsibility, such as the gods, then, listen, by more agendas, by more high-ranking visions, there are these intermediaries, there are these achievers who are the ones who end up acting in the shadow of the government. And, therefore, that also concerns us. They are people who held this paper during the organization of the illegal reference and have continued to do so after: maintain these relationships and re certain petitions. To finish. For us, the use of public resources for long-term illegal activities such as the U of October referral is misuse of public funds and, therefore, is also corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.22.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.23.0	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Thank you, Mr. President. Vice President, Counselor... Mr. Carrizosa was speaking at the presentation of this monographic plenary in his first initial intervention... in which all his hits came out again; I didn't point out a few, did I? The "xiringuito", TV3's propaganda machine, the process, the language, the embassies... He spoke in this intervention, where all the hits came out, from the gravity of the corruption situation. The curiosity, however, is that they lose all their credibility when they neglect to talk about cases that affect themselves, in Ciutadans. The corruption cases of his party, of his political organization, which only with the few years he has of life already accumulates a rule of cases of corruption and of convictions and, therefore, better not to come here to give lessons. Case Enredadera, Arroyomolinos ; case El Molar ; case Cazorla, Almeria ; case Espartinas, Seville ; case Logronyo ; case Soler, Múrcia. So... [[Funnel veils]] Yes, Mrs. Roldán, and Mr. Carrizosa, who isn't there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.24.0	Mrs. Roldán, you don't have the word right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.25.0	The Republican Left likes us very much to say that we don't have any cases of corruption, because it's true, unlike you. Ninety years of impolite history and constant struggle and, from time to time, against corruption. It is also forgotten that apart from these cases that we have now gathered, you are also supporting the People's Party, the most corrupt party in Europe, condemned, even more, and with whom they govern both Madrid and Andalusia; hence they do not remember. Case Noos, case Gürtel, etcetera, to name a few. And before I go on, I also want to make it clear that we think you're irresponsible. And here, I went through with our complaint – the complaint by Esquerra Republicana – in this plenary; therefore, Mr President, I was noted. Because here Ciutadans has come to the mouth of Mrs. Roldán to accuse the independence of Nazis, of bexists. That's right. Proud, lords of Ciutadans. We won't allow these false accusations, and much less who's in peace and have pacts with Vox. That's right. We won't allow it. We will not allow you, who flirt with the extreme right, to give us a lesson to the Republicans nor to make an attack or an accusation of these characteristics. Independence is by nature democratic, republican, feminist and anti-feixist. So much for it. We go on, if they want, talking about corruption. Let's talk about it, because we, from the Republican Left, as I said, can do it with a very tall head. Before corruption we are ruthless, and not everyone can say the same. In fact, Vice-President Aragones explained this in his intervention: we are not all the same. Talk to us. Let's talk about cases of corruption. We talk about systemic corruption, we talk about how we take over, how we create the necessary tools to fight it. We also talk about how corruption is used to pursue a movement like independence and how we can fight against it, too. Let's talk about how corruption also affects economics and how it reverses negatively in public services to the citizenry. The IMF estimates the cost of corruption at 2_percent of world GDP. The European Union estimates that the damage generated by corruption amounts to EUR 120,000_million each year, and a third of that amount – about EUR 40,000_million – are related to the Spanish State. Let's talk about how this Parliament, unlike others – for example, the Congress of Deputies – made commissions of inquiry when it was necessary: in the case of 3_per_cent, in the case of Pujol, the CIFEF – the Commission of Investigation against Frau and Corruption; the Cemcord, the Commission of Study of Measures to Fight Corruption and for Democratic Regeneration. Now, sometimes we have remained alone or few companions – I think especially of you, lords of Ciutadans – asking to investigate the monarchy. And here his is not apotheotic, as his amnesia of not talking about the king; then I will refer to it. We also talk, if they want, about the corruption and public perception that exists in Catalonia, with data from the barometer, that other companies have previously made reference to it, and what we can do to overcome these perceptual ills, and a question that you ask all of us. But you didn't come here today to talk about all this, you didn't come here to talk about how we fight corruption; you came here to be hooligans, to be friendly, you came to make a new use of public institutions for your own benefit, an electoralist. With his words, we have seen..., and as his interventions have done, we have seen that this is not a ple against corruption; this is a ple, another time, to use the institutions, and, in this case the Parliament, in his favour, as a political defender, as the same Councillor of Exteriors Sole said, to make his act of campaign, the act of campaigning, the act of campaigning, to the Catalan institutions. They come here to use corruption to criminalize their political opponents. And that's what it does to corrupt institutions and democracy; you do to corrupt institutions and democracy, with this electoralist and partisan use and with this criminalization of political opponents with false accusations of corruption. What they do is play the game at the State Keyboards. I already told the last Member we discussed in this Parliament: Citizens are the ‘useful fool of Spanish injustice, it is the piece that is needed because the repression gear and the general cause against independence works. You're missing, to whitewash all the brutal war and all the locksmiths. And here they are, here they come; they always, always, and more proudly, I think they do. With their way of doing it, they attack a government and political opponents, attacking them by corrupts, attacking us by corrupts, even though it is not true, because for you everything goes when something makes us, like the independence movement. In fact, this is a common practice of a few democratic regimes when they attack political opposition, and it's shameful. The supposed corruption that you are carrying here today and that they say it affects the Republican Left of Catalonia, the Volhov operation, is nothing more than a police mountain, a piece more of the general cause against independence, and with very clear objectives, which you serve. Actually, it's Ciutadan's usual modus operandi, necessary political accomplices, it's not new, but we think it's equally irresponsible, and so we have to report it. That's why we also tell them what we're doing in this House: we'll also talk about cases of corruption, too, but we'll also take advantage of this House to unravel the keys that exist in the State, the brutal war, and all the evils practiced in the name of a state, in fact, in the name of the unit of a state, the Spanish State, which is natural, yes, it's corrupt. We'll explain. To what you call corruption, which has served as an excuse to make this Ple, as you said, the Volhov operation, and which is now in its electoral campaign, in reality it is political repression, a more part of the general cause against independence. Because they've seen it before, and he's well-known: Spain is paid more for being a democrat than being a thief. And if you don't, look at the prisoners and the political press; you just count the years of sentence that the thieves have..., in other words, stolen, corrupted, and the cases that the prisoners and the independent political press have. The most recent example of this general misguided cause of corruption is the Volhov operation, to which you have made a lot of reference, which, as I said, is a new mountain of Civil Guard, endorsed by Spanish justice, and with usual impunity; a new operation led by a known old independence, the creator of all the farce of the process, Lieutenant Colonel Baena, otherwise known as Tacitus, who certainly already invented the September 20 sedition or who was also behind the operations against the dome of the Mossos, which have been absolved, or against Tamara Carrasco, absolved. That is why we denounce this repressive act, in place of the bet to do politics and to find democratic solutions and to resolve, therefore, the conflict by democratic means. And here I want to make a special mention of Councillor Bernat Sole, the Councillor of Exteriors, who is just patenting himself for this judicial persecution, repression, for the simple fact of having done as the mayor..., having stood beside the citizenry, having completed the democratic mandate and letting and making the citizenry of our country, in this case of Agramunt, also able to vote. We are very clear, Counselor, on the side of whom we have, as you asked at the end: at the side of democracy, at the side of human rights; indeed, at the side of parliamentarianism and political power, to build; at the side of the dialect; at the side of it, Counselor; at your side, Bernat, always. The object of these causes, such as Volhov's, make-up corruption, is not to clarify supposed economic crimes, but to divide, scare, fear independence, and also to impassion and discredit and cover up the work that this government does, which is independenceist, to help people. In the face of all this, we always answer and answer, the times you need, and disassemble each of the police mountains and each of the false accusations you make. There is not enough..., there is no..., and I have made myself clear, because I have repeated it several times, more often than not, in this Parliament itself: there is no new concert in Education; the Salutation competition that is supposed to have been revoked, never existed; there is no regularization or urban change in Cabrera; there is no contractual relationship between the researchers and the Department of Treball, Social Affairs and Family. Yes, there is, in this operation, Citizens taking advantage of the State's keyloggers to win four votes, and that, as I said before, is to want to corrupt democracy on the basis of crude war and on the basis of fake news. They can already strive there, they can already, who they are, strive to want to relate independence to corruption, that they will not get together, however much they invent it; they know who is behind it: they are justices and patriotic, anti-democratic and corrupt police. And we'll explain the times you need: it's the state locksmiths, the fake news, a system that goes all the way, the raons of the state, that endures everything; to attack those who question the status quo, it's said operation Catalonia, Judes or Volhov. Another clear proof of everything I'm explaining. The excommissari of the Spanish police Villarejo ordered a _second operation Catalonia, there was not enough with one, but a_second, in this case with the husband of Cospedal, Ignacio López del Hierro, to whom he said, "This is very important, Ignacio, because it is to end the independenceists once and for all. Tanco comets. Who's the corrupt guy here? Who are the corrupts here? Another example, because, if there is not enough of the cases created so far to pursue independence, we see as the same material author of the systemic persecution against the independence movement, I have already referred to it, Lieutenant Colonel Baena, Tacitus, now is responsible for prosecuting the Government of the Generality on the management of the pandemic. We'll hear about it, I'm sure. It's the last we needed to see and believe. Perhaps the most wretched cause that can emerge from the state's keyposts: a forward-looking instruction, as it is now, laying on the lookout for workers and workers, public servants and servants, and members of a government not to clarify whether things have been done well in pandemic times, what has been done well, what has been done badly, but to pursue a government because it is independent at the expense of the pandemic we are living in. The same methods that 20-S and the U of October are now applying to order a new case against institutional independence, with an aggravating factor: that now they also want to take advantage of the people's pain, the suffering of a situation of emergency and health crisis, apart from economic and social. They'll always explain to us, as we've done. People of Republican Left always give their faces, we're transparent. We keep all the accounts possible at all times; to be transparent, as I said; to rectify if necessary, from honesty and republican values; but we will not allow or let – and that is why we denounce it here already in advance – that the Civil Guard is back building a new cause against independence, in this case, in the area of pandemic management. Who's the corrupt, asked questions before? And I'll tell them. The 78's rule is for the world of a corrupt system. The Transition Pact is a pact made for Francoism and the economic elites who impose it with the force of arms and power, and to maintain privileges. And it's a corrupt political system. In the State, corruption is not that it's by system, it's also that it's the system itself. I come from its foundational bases. Transition wasn't just a model, but it perpetuated the worst vices of the regime, and among them, also corrupt them. And yes, which is the highest exponent of the 78th Regime, the turnkey that holds the entire institutional architecture of the 78th Regime, the untouched King Joan Carles, is the ultimate exponent of corruption in the Spanish State. And I'm also commenting on them because they've forgotten; they've done a lot of work in the following five causes, but they haven't talked about the monarchy. It's weird. It's been forty years of a client network of power and interest where what was going on with the monarchy has been hidden. A corrupt monarchy up to the insides, at levels that can only be heard because this corruption is structural. A scandal of unusual proportions. These past months the controversy has focused on the figure of Joan Carles of Borbó, the Spanish emeritus king, but we do not see that it is an ailing fact, because Felipe of Borbó, the current head of the Spanish State, has a father investigated for alleged money laundering, a brother-in-law in prison, some nephews serving black targets. And that's just what we know, the one that's transcended. See what else there is, too. That is why we, from the Republican Left, are making progress in this House with a motion for a resolution against this corrupt monarchy, against this corrupt structural system of the Spanish monarchy. Three are investigations against Joan Carles today: for undeclared expenses, for a fortune in a tax haven and for the million-dollar donated also to Corinna Larsen and the escandal of the commissions charged. With corruption always zero tolerance. And with the monarchy, too. Because we are republicans in essence and also by conviction, but above all we are just the opposite of who protects and shields this kind of practice and corrupt them. Joan Carles from Borbo says he wants to go home to Nadal after fleeing to the Arab Emirates in summer. We have a clear idea who should come home for Nadal. And it is the democrats who made the U of October possible who are unjustly in prison or exile; not the thieves, it is they who should return home. And unfortunately we will know that they probably won't come back because this injustice will follow, because here in this State, it's not that justice sometimes goes blind, it's that sometimes it's intentionally and deliberately. We're still talking about corruption. Why in this rotten system of the State, where corruption and crisis is systemic, starting with the head of state, as we are talking now, there have also been the tips of this 78th rule, these tips that take advantage of the system, and they are political organizations as well, like the PP – I have already mentioned them – the first leading party in corruption in Europe; the PSOE, too, which accumulates a few cases of corruption – I think, for example, in the case of EROs in Andalusia – ; also Citizens, who are advanced students, because in a few years, right? They're not after the rush, in this corruption, even though they're oblivious when they come here and have sudden amnesia. And in Catalonia too, certainly; in Catalonia there have also been cases of corruption, and there have been cases of corruption, of those parties which have endured "socio-vergency in our country and which we have always fought. Always. Because unfortunately, certainly, Catalonia is not immune from corruption, which shows that we must continue to struggle for the effective elimination of these practices. Cases such as: case Palau, case Pujol, case 3_per_cent, case Convergence and Leading Union; or case Inipro, case Mercuri, case PSC as the lead; or, between the two, case Pretòria. Current cases also, unfortunately, like the case of the Hospital's Sports Council, which precisely this case carries..., this case, which is the most flagrant of the last days, bears a proper name, which is that of the Núria Marín, the mayor of the Hospital de Llobregat and president of the Barcelona City Council. Our company at the Hospital has been reporting since the first day on an active and passive basis on this case; we have also brought it here to Parliament, because we can give the necessary explanations, because public demands must be for everyone. And transparency is also needed, in this case, as Congressman Jordi Orobig denounced. A case that is glaring and where the explanations are not being given. We did not only approve that Mrs Marín appeared in Parliament on the proposal of Esquerra Republicana, but we asked her to come to the last session of the Commission of Institutional Affairs, of the CAI. And the apology was from the height of a bell. The departure from this commission, however, we knew of the charge against Mrs Marín by the UDEF. I'm looking for the PSC guys, too! Which, by the way, is indecent, Mr. Terrades, which suqui pa with the Volhov summary, as it did here today, which has been flattered; it is indecent. But, certainly, the detention of the Marín last week, of the Marín, without cameras, without police at home; exactly as when there are operations against independence, exactly the same. In short, what is obvious is that we cannot allow the institutions of our country to have a shadow of doubt. And Mrs. Marín is president of the Barcelona City Council, the third institution in this country, and it's for an agreement with Junts for Catalonia. And that's why we're going to say it again: this pact is a shame pact because there was an alternative, and now it's even more shameful because what it does is falsify a president of the socialist parliament with shadows of corruption. So let's say again, let's tell Juntes for Cat to rethink his complicit role and silence in this case. And we are not served by the smoke curtains, which will surely come here and say – that we are very tired–..., which have been said these last days, that if the pact of the Barcelona Parliament is like any other pacts in some other part of our country. So look, no, it's not the same, because the pact of the Barcelona City Council is to whitewash corruption. If it's time, we'll ask. Do you want to build an alternative? We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... The debate is not about pacts or breaking pacts to babble, and less still in cities where independence and republicanism governs. For example, in places where republicanism or independence governs precisely these pacts – I'm talking about Sant Cugat – what they've done is put aside years of practices that didn't please people or anything. And they shouldn't please anyone. We insist, this is not about pacts; this is about who whites or tolerates corruption. We'll never do it. In fact, we – I think I've told you on various occasions in this intervention – can talk to the very tall head, because we certainly have almost nine years of history, of an impolite history without cases of corruption, a trajectory that supports us. And we can also talk about concrete facts, from the government, from institutions, from the same party, from years old and from time to time. A party that we have been fighting, years ago, and many years ago, against the opaque financing of political parties, against anonymous donations; that we have deployed measures to increase the control of foundations – years ago, too – and of public grant recipients; that we have pushed the Anti-Fraud Office at its time; that we have pushed the open and transparent government developing a strategy of fighting corruption – before the councillor explained it to us –; also from municipalities, with anonymous beasts; from Parliament, working together with experts for the protection of alerting persons, or also in this summit against corruption. Feta work also swallows us – feta work also swallows us. And, mirin, yes, Republican Left we have people persecuted and convicted. For repression, not corruption. And as much as you're throwing up today, you're lying here, you can't associate us with corruption, because facts and evidence fall for your own people. I'm done, President, even though I think I'll have time. Certainly, corruption weakens the trust and self-esteem of individuals at the individual level and also at the collective level; it discredits the institutions and delegitimate the system, moreover, obviously, to misuse public resources, essential resources, especially now in a context of health crisis, social crisis, economic crisis that we are experiencing, an absolutely complex moment. Hence the fight against corruption must be a priority compromise, it must be the priority to eradicate the evil practices and cases of corruption that may still exist today. And, therefore, assume all responsibilities, for everyone. For us, this priority has always been, but what we can't do with corruption, what we can't do with corruption, what we can't do with the major who can do with corruption, is want to get out of it electorally, as you do when you come here, as today's plenary. Neither can it be trivialized, nor can it be seen that it does not exist, when it carries its flag; nor does it play the game at the keyposts, which, as I said before, uses corruption to criminalise a political project alternating with its own. Because if they do all this, and you're doing it – and they're not the only ones, Citizens, but they're doing it too – they're turning into corrupt democracy and corrupt right-wing state. [[Widow's remorse.]] Prevention and the fight against corruption imposes on us all... I already know that they do not like them – I already know that they do not like them – because they feel, obviously, full of contradictions and inconsistencies. No pateixin – no pateixin –; we too have had to listen to a lot of barbarity before. Don't pateixin. It's important that we explain. Prevention and the fight against corruption raise an ethical revolt, which will surely make us stronger at the individual level and also at the social level, such as society. Our bet, as Councillor Raül Romeva explains, is for the common good, thinking of everyone. And in the common good there is no corruption, no bri of corruption, no threat of corruption. Because the corruption that it does is to harm the citizenry and, therefore, to harm the good of the good of the common good. This explains to us Raül Romeva, who today he wanted to name in this Parliament, because he, as a predecessor also of..., as an external adviser, of Transparency and Institutional Relations, was one of the leaders of this strategy against corruption. So I say that he explains it to us in his book Ubuntu: The Republic of the Common Good, which I recommend to them, certainly; a word, "Ubuntu, which expresses the conviction that it has not felt the individual good if it is not produced in correspondence with the good of the community, with the idea of collectivity, of combining one's own and of thinking about the common good, of overcoming individualities and individualism. This is the idea of the Catalan Republic. That's why the Catalan Republic is so powerful for everyone, thinking about the benefits for everyone. That's why we're clear and we'll repeat it all the time. Before a corrupt and failed state, if there is structurally corruption, the answer is Catalan Republic. In view of the repression of this corrupt and failed State, of this State with anti-democratic tics, the answer is also the Catalan Republic. The solution, the proposal we make to the citizens of this country of the Republican Left, is always the same: more rights, more freedom, more transparency, more democracy. And this is the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.26.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Aurora Madaula has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.27.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, parliamentary workers, many thanks. We're talking a little bit more about corruption today. We are debating, we are proposing, we will vote on proposals for a resolution on corruption and how to deal with it in order to put an end to this scourge that affects our entire society. In fact, during this legislature, five different anti-corruption motions were debated and approved. At the committee of the CAERIT, which I chair, we have debated corruption enough, we have approved some resolutions. And the Ciutadans Group, if I wasn't wrong, has proposed three monographic debates on corruption. In fact, on July 2019, I was already in this faristol in a monographic debate about corruption, and I explained to them that we, from Junts to Catalonia, had zero tolerance with corruption; that, obviously, I had entered into politics very little, I did not win from tradition nor converge, neither post-convergent, nor neo-convergent, nor from what they call themselves, but that, obviously, I condemned all types of corruption, come from where I came from, and my Junts' companions to Catalonia also do so. Therefore, I cease to refer constantly to the past, because it is true that here it has been felt again, so, yes, the great successes that repeat, it is repeated, it is repeated, as a disk rattled, and that they propose nothing new: that if the « syringuit, that if the 3_per_cent, that if the Pretòria, that if the case Palau... I have already named them that day, I have already spoken, we have not spoken in many motions, we have already made resolutions against cases of corruption... And now it's about working, proposing, debating, bringing in new ideas, but don't repeat it to us, because I think we're very tired..., we'll never get tired of working, but we're tired of a little bit of the same speech every time and there's no news and we're always stuck in it like we don't have anything else. The truth is that corruption and fighting... is one of the themes that refers to Ciutadans, and it's good news, because while we're working on this good cause, against this bad cause, they don't do it against the language, which is one of his other recurring themes. Therefore, I prefer that it is center to fight corruption rather than Catalan language. And I say it's good news to keep working against corruption, and it's bad news in itself, because it means we still have corruption. But far from wanting to be a perfect society, we could do a reflection on whether there are societies where there is no corruption, or if all corruption is derived from moral, human, and so naturally difficult to eradicate altogether. Even so, following corruption a condition inherent in being humane or linked to cultural or religious events as Max Weber said to Protestant ethics and the experience of capitalism... Weber's memory that he believed that corruption in Protestant societies was less socially accepted than in the countries of Catholic tradition because Protestants did not find the comfort of confession after the crime, nor by other mechanisms, and this characteristic forced them to be more scrupulous in their obligations. Weber also applied this theory to the unequal triumph of the implementation of capitalism to different societies, depending on their tradition. But without running away from the study, because it would be an interesting debate about Max Weber, the capitalist tradition, the tradition of the implementation of capitalism in societies that are Catholic or Protestant... We will not do so, we will not run away from the study, and we will focus on how interesting it is to analyze the level of corruption of the different European countries taking into account this tradition and these weberial reflections. I only make them a reflection and a reference to a web page that is called transparency.org – transparency. org –, a web page where you see the different types of perception of corruption from different countries and see and can analyze whether the web theories are true or not, even though they have passed many years and, well, many analyses. So, as I said, whether it is natural, traditional or conditioned to an economic system, what is certain is that corruption exists, and it persists, and it is one of our obligations, as Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, as legislators and protectors of the public good, which means the State and its powers..., what we need to do is to control corruption and create mechanisms to pursue it and make it disappear. And that's what we've been trying to do, like I said, in all the places. Instead of debating and repeating the cases that have passed, what we have tried to do..., or least since the Juntes Group for Catalonia, in these three years, we have tried to do with the motions, with the debates, approving the resolutions, is to fight against this scourge. In the Single European Act, which we have already spoken about before, against the corruption that we experienced on February 2020, we will approve a whole series of resolutions that have been put on the market by the Government and the Parliament, that are on the road – and so you say the text that you approved, and that I am not very proud of – to develop the republican values that a new country is to lead. Because, yes, I left 'imfer an incis here, soc independentista, and Junts for Catalonia we are independentists, and we have always said – and I always say, and I always repeat it – that the independenceists cannot make Catalonia independent as a Spanish in small; they cannot repeat the mistakes of Spain, a centralist state, Jacob and structurally, institutionally, but also social. Independentists need to aspire to build a more just and modern independent country. And this cannot be in any other way than a country where the culture of transparency, the fight against corruption, follows the strategy and the central objective of the government's political action, as they continue in these approved resolutions. Not a Disney country, Mr. Terrades, as you've made reference. We don't want a Disney country; we want a de facto state, and a European state, and a transparent state, and where corruption is being pursued. In those resolutions of the Parliament of Catalonia we also committed ourselves to organizing, together with the Observers City against Corruption, a summit, a summit against corruption, with the presence of the signatories of the pact against corruption signed in September 2015, as well as representatives of different control bodies; for example, of the Union of Accounts, Antifrau, Syndic de Greuges, the Commission for Guarantee of the Right of Access to Public Information, the Tax Agency of Catalonia, and even the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of Catalonia. The objective of this summit, which was achieved, was approved and implemented..., some objectives were the assessment and follow-up of the state of implementation of the consensus measures in the Social Pact against Corruption and in the case of the Commission for the Study of Measures against Corruption; the development of a work plan for the materialization of the most urgent measures; the struggle against the structural causes of corruption, which is one of the problems, the structural causes of corruption. I also told them on July 2019: we have a system that is corrupt, a 78-year-old regime that did not shut down the dictatorship well and that is structurally corrupt and Catalonia forms part of this corrupt state. It's structural, corruption. They also set priorities and an implementation schedule. As I said, this summit has already come true and is following..., it is working on continuing to approve and work on the different objectives. In that monographic debate, we were able to fix different areas where corruption is found. It's also been mentioned in this faristol today. Corruption is also a cross-cutting issue. It's not that you just touch a folder, it's not that you just touch a department, it's not that you just touch a part of society, it's that it touches a lot and different places of society. I also remember the words of my partner, Lluís Guinó, who made his intervention during the month of fever: "Corruption is certainly natural and inherent to human condition, so we find it at different places in our society. In that monographic debate, then, we approved resolutions to develop in the case of the Government, focusing on different areas that were: good governance, work on good governance, public administration, the judicial system, subsidies and public contracts – then I will mention – transparency, alerters and public ethics, control bodies, tax fraud, political parties and legal entities. Let us remember that many cases of corruption in this country have been linked to the misfinancing of political parties, obvious and total political corruption, political parties, legal entities and public communication media, which we could also talk about, not just public communication media, but communication media in general and how they also generate, also fall into this law of which I will then speak. I'm not going to give you a full account of everything we approved then, because everyone else didn't mention it already and what was being explained, the government didn't explain it, and so I don't think it's going to happen, but I'm sure they'll be a lot more like what we approve of. That's why we said that, of course, it's the third debate on corruption. I do not think that things have changed as much as to approve very different things to invent us now, at the end of the legislature, we control bodies or nine measures that we can apply by the end of the legislature. So, I guess more or less they've already talked about everything that's been done, what we approved then. I suppose very similar things were approved, but I would certainly like to fill in the effort that the government and, by extension, the citizens are making to cope with this scourge in the midst of the pandemic. And it is that, surely, one of the first reflections that we have to do to address the issue of corruption is to think about public res public, the public thing as well as apart from our rich as a society of the common good that we cannot profit from, but share and work to share it, this common good. The concept of res publica, which is a concept that was already used in the Roma right, in the Roman society, in the Roman world, but that is that in the Roma right already appears as in the public right, defined everything that was not private property. It then evolved and came to refer to the State, the Government, this public domain. But then, in that Roman world, Emperor Cicero claimed that profiting from the State is not only immoral, but it is criminal and an infamy. I mean, that's why I used to tell them, right? Because maybe it's inherent in human ability, corruption. It goes a long way, but that doesn't mean we can't end it, that's what we're supposed to do. That he's coming from a long time doesn't mean he can't finish it, and I think that in the 21st century, we have an obligation to end corruption. Many of the resolutions that we approved then and which the Government and Parliament have been putting on the market are aimed at this very thing, not to profit from the State, not to find the benefit of the public good, to be transparent in the public contract, in the contract of public services, to respect the principle of equality in all the selected processes, to eliminate the rotating doors that have served for all political parties and all ideologies. Here no one is saved from rotating doors, because it is a corrupt system. And to walk towards a more transparent, more professional and independent administration that helps reform the public sector. We need a reform of the public sector, obviously, to improve the conditions of public sector workers, but also that of users, and to ensure, in the end, that our public services remain of quality and that no one benefits from their management. And, in this sense, I would like to ask the Government to focus efforts against corruption at this point on public services, especially taking into account the current time, the time of the pandemic that we are living in: economic, social and housing crisis, to ensure that all the inhabitants of Catalonia, all the citizens of Catalonia, reindeer the services that they need and the quality they deserve. The Anti-Corruption Office has reported that contracts are being contracted to service companies, large service companies, which have obtained contracts during the pandemic forming the workers according to the contract and this does not guarantee public service or, at least, does not guarantee the quality that should be guaranteed for users of public service. That was reported by the Anti-Fraud Office. Therefore, the nail that puts special emphasis on this public service and the guarantee of public service during this pandemic. Then, in that debate against corruption we also made a point of the important and structural corruption of the Spanish State. And here's the mother of the eggs. Without losing the responsibility we have as Catalans and as Catalan institutions of corruption that there has been and may be in Catalan institutions, it is that we live in a corrupt state, in a corrupt system that, together with the Spanish corrupt justice system, severely harms the freedoms and rights of the citizens of Catalonia. From Catalonia and which you especially, lords of Ciutadans, do not seem to want to defend, the citizens of Catalonia for whom you have been chosen deputies, because they never denounce this Spanish corruption. It seems that it does not affect them, the citizen of Catalonia and affects the citizen independenceists, but also those who are not independenceists. From the Parliament of Catalonia we continue to denounce systemic corruption and quality, the low democratic quality of the institutions of the State, which do not guarantee the exercise of the civil and political rights of the citizens of Catalonia; the freedoms, the full guarantees. And obviously, we denounced the use of the State's keyposts, with the use of public funds, to attack the Catalan institutions; to pursue, spy, criminalise the independence movement and its civil and political leaders inside and outside Catalonia. Remember that there have been cases of phone punches to people... to civilians! , to people who have nothing to do with the political world, both inside and outside, who persecuted themselves outside Catalonia because they were independent. Of course, we also denounced the operation of the powers of the Spanish State to weaken public services. Remember when we destroyed their health care system? I didn't see you protesting against this. Or destabilize the Catalan economy. Do you remember the personal tricks of King Philip VI to companies to encourage the change of his Catalan businesses? Isn't that corruption? Is that what a Spanish monarch has to do? Nor have I seen that protest about this, and this also affects the non-independence citizens of Catalonia; this affects the economy of Catalonia. And I didn't see you were a monarch's cheese maker. But, of course, now we'll talk about the monarchy. And, of course, what they're doing is scrambling a summary, the Volhov case, a very curious case, huh? Because even the whole name has been objected to, here, the other day, in fact, of discussion, isn't it? , because in the first press release that comes up « Volkhov, as the river where there was a battle to the Second World War, that the Feixists remember – the Feixists, the Nazis, remember – many times, and that is well known in the Nazi circuits. Then the Civil Guard, in unofficial fonts, denied that it was "Volkhov," and then said it was "Volhov," right? « Volhov, which refers to a Viking god. Well... But you're referring to this, which is I'd say it's under summary secrecy and the only information we know is information that's appeared on the press. So, you guys are accusing people with information that's appeared at the press. But well... And accuse the people... I think it's obviously a general cause against independence, that it's a state police operation against independence, of the state's locksmiths, that exactly what they do and what they say that information, precisely, is something they shouldn't be proud of, that it's investigating, punching phones, punching conversations with people, civilians, and you're saying it as if it were the most just cause, the most certain proof, because according to you, it's a case of corruption. But, of course, what is a case of corruption is that the Civil Guard is chasing the city free! And putting your phones on. But well... Well, what about, obviously, the Spanish monarchy, right? From this monarch, Philip VI, very fond of the circles of the far right. What do you say? So, look, you, I told you in the past Ple: they have never voted against Bourbon corruption. More! It doesn't seem to matter to them, this corruption. And it's not that there's no evidence of this corruption, because it's that even the Royal House and the Spanish State, and the government, has recognized it. It's not that you've recognized it... that you're always talking about "runaways." It's the king's escape! The king emeritus. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, now he wants to come back for Nadal. The envelope, isn't it? And that's about to make a regularization to Hisenda. It's not corruption, is it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You've come to pay no fine, you'll see whether Hisenda returns them to Nadal or not in the form of a lot. And this you... you have never voted against, you have never voted against anything, to investigate anything about the Spanish monarchy. Obviously, they voted against the monarchy's commission of inquiry into corruption. They don't care, either, that this corruption. The black banners, which not only made them serve the emerit king escaped, but, above all, the grandchildren. But it doesn't matter. You see this corruption, that's all, huh? , after approval of the general assumptions of the State a game with the money, with the millions that you say you give, that will now regularize with Hisenda and everything is over. So, nothing, nothing's going on. Commissions of thousands of millions of euros, black targets, dark negotiations that would embarrass any person, any democrat, if it wasn't for a monarchy's legacy of Francoism, it would have to embarrass them, of series and of the moon. But no, it's okay. If it wasn't because, besides, a monarchy isn't democratic. Absolutely. And well, and it's connected, like the head of the state is also the head of the army, tied, and tied to the Volhov, the army. What to say, of this Spanish army, that it is not corrupt, no, and that it certainly does not seem to be in absolute corruption, that there are three hundred soldiers on the reserve who make a letter defending a few days of state and ending with 26_million people, because it does not seem to them that democracy Spain a good solution to political problems. That's not what they're saying either. It is seen that this is not corruption. It's seen that having a Francoist, fascist army, that's all, that's not Spanish State corruption. It's seen that having armies and barracks voting for Vox – and if I don't go looking at the results of the last elections – is the most normal of the world, in a democratic world, in a democratic state; but it's not corruption, not at all, of that. And if they don't believe it, the theme of the three hundred, and they will say to me, "It's that there are three hundred soldiers from the reserve, what do we do? Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, A video, last week, of some soldiers making maneuvers singing a song from the Blue Division; also, from there of the Volkhov. Nothing happened, no one said anything; no dispatch was opened against the army singing fascist hymns in a democracy. If this isn't corruption, if this isn't covering up the state's shames, what is this? I don't want to live in a state like this. [[Greetings.]] But, last May, the Parliament of Catalonia approved a declaration on the corruption of Catalonia, where the total and unanimous rebuking of any kind of institutional corruption was manifested, and special reference – since they like it so much – to the case of Palau de la Música, because it had come out the feeling that it affected a cultural institution and a party that concerns them so much. We have made an institutional declaration of this Parliament against this issue. Just to repeat the same disk, so we don't go anywhere. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's work, make proposals. That statement meant the continuation of this institution and of its deputies in the fight against corruption, as well as the resolution during the general policy debate of September 2020, where the Government set out to develop policies of integrity to guarantee institutional quality to the different departments of the Government of Catalonia, for which we have said before, because corruption is a cross-cutting issue, and it has to be used to work cross-cuttingly and that there are solutions to all departments of the Generality. And it is that both the Parliament and the Government have continued to work against corruption, and that the Antifrau 2020 Barometer, which has just come out, sees the downward trend in Catalan perception of corruption. This does not mean that there is no corruption, this means that Catalans realize that corruption is not so important, surely because there are fears that they will be more concerned. The downward trend..., in fact, the barometer reveals that nearly 80_percent of the respondents consider corruption to be a hard or very hard problem, even though it has dropped a few points in their consideration, but they still think it is hard or very hard. And it's that it's very hard, corruption, obviously, because it's there, it's that attack on the public domain, that it's everybody's, and therefore, it's very hard, and, above all, when it's for a personal job. Even so, the better the perception of Catalans..., for what it does to the consideration of political parties, improves – all that is true that the deputy of Catalonia in Comú We may not have made a different reading –, improves the perception of political parties and lowers the percentage of those who believe that the parties are financed illegally, even though they are still concerned. Measures have been taken, there were measures that I told them they were approved at the fever. There were measures to improve, obviously, the organization of political parties, of foundations, because this had been one of the important problems, from cases linked to political parties, to the financing of political parties, and through the foundations of political parties. And, therefore, measures have been taken to ensure that this does not happen again. And for what he does to institutions... well, these barometer data are troubling. There are some data, for example, such as the young people's tendency to tolerate corruption more – it's worrying, obviously, we have to do something, anti-corruption pedagogy – or the perception of little transparency in institutions. They do see that the workers of the institutions, the working ones, are not corrupt or do not realize that there is corruption, but they perceive corruption in the institutions, little transparency. While the department works for transparency and there is a law, and there are all measures for transparency, as we have, many times, demonstrated, that on the web page there is all the follow-up of transparency measures, and for what it does to citizens' access to the entire agenda and the work they do, of course, because the government is an example of transparency. For what he does to the institutions, he says that he makes a special point to the Spanish judicial system. This is indeed a case of systemic and structural corruption in the Spanish State. We have an ideological judicial system; ideological above all at its summit, denounced by various European stations with judgments of the Court of Strasbourg against the politicization and partiality of the system – I recall the Greek report – and that it uses its power to pursue and engage political rivals. And that's what they do, when they don't win the ballot box they try to win it in court, pursue independence, make the general case against independence. We have great examples of his successes, and some failures: from how the Spanish judiciary dissolved the Parliament, the Government; he disqualified presidents; he persecuted deputies, the members of the Bureau of this Parliament..., or the mayors, like the Solé Councillor, have been tried to obey the people, and obeying the people is not a crime, it is an obligation for a mayor. [[Addressing the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency.]] So thank you and all the support in this calvary that means the Spanish judiciary, because it is the persecution, obviously, of some ideas, of independence. But, they have already told you, use these plenums, these monograms against corruption, not to talk about corruption but to follow with the baton and continue to return to the 3 percent "syringuitos, to the disc of Punica, of the Palau case, because I come back here and tell them that we are against corruption and that we tolerate zero against corruption, but they do not bring re again nor bring any idea, no debate that we can approve and that we can get out of here. Use, as the Spanish system does, the judicial system as the weapon launches against its political opponents. And here they've done it again. They go all the way through the presumption of innocence. There seems to be no presumption of innocence here. Well, yeah, for the king, right? I'm sure. For the king emeritus, for the king Philip VI, and for his own, of the cases of corruption they have, but for the rest, no. We're all already suspicious of independence. And if I don't know where Barcelona starts a case without proof, so does the person for whom it is, even though there is no judgment or judgment. We're all guilty. Look, how many sentences have you made against President Puigdemont or President Torra? Because you here, Mrs. Roldán, accused him of corruption, accused them of corruption. It's hard to get out of the Parliament of Catalonia and make these accusations so hard. And I'll tell you one thing: this corruption of the Spanish judicial system... well, this corrupt system, March 2020 starts a case of Barcelona Eagles against President Puigdemont, right? They accused her of having been corrupt and having benefited from contracts in Aigues de Barcelona when she was mayor. I, well, March 2020. He's getting it. It closed in November 2020. They have not said re; you have not said re. They made skirmishes there, but when it was filed, neither you nor the judicial system nor the pressure paid to it. Again I say to them: in debate, debate, vote, not censor, accuse and not defame – not defame –, do politics and not populism. And then, obviously, I will refer to the banalization of Nazism that has been done again, and that is very difficult, in this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-14-6801.28.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There was no reply from the government, so this debate was over. I would remind you, in any case, that the sequence will be as follows: in relation to the motions for resolutions, the deadline for submitting them will end tomorrow, Tuesday morning, at 9.30 a.m.; that the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be the same as the meeting of the Bureau; that the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be finally told to the gods, and that the presentation and voting of the motions for resolutions will be divided. All the more, let's suspend the plenary until tomorrow at twelve in the morning. Thank you.
