ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.1.0	Let's resume the session. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into security policies]] [[302-0022/12]] And we do so with the twenty-first item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on security policies, an question made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To present it has the word the deputy Mr Carles Castillo. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.2.0	Well, very good morning, all of you, very much thank you for coming with us. This is a young man coming from an inquiry that certainly bothered the counselor at that time. We did not intend to bother, we intended to make a motion, let us say, fix it, simple, but above all, we saw a series of problems and questions that had not been made of everything that had been done during the pandemic, above all, in the face of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, in the face of the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya, that are two things that are always left to the skin at personal level, and we believe that we must guarantee them, therefore, an adequate protection in order to be able to carry out their work in proper conditions, and this was our humble pretence, and from here comes this motion, with which we have alleged, basically to learn from mistakes. It wasn't much less about keeping the saying to anyone or pointing out things that didn't turn out well, but learning from mistakes and not getting through things that didn't go well, above all, I'm saying, you're going to protect, look after the people of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squads. Some of the points that we have managed to approve – many thanks, of course, also to the company of other parliamentary groups that have contributed their points – some of the points..., I will highlight some of the points. So, for example, the Department of the Interior has a stock of adequate self-protection material, at least for three months, for all the emergencies; providing sufficient and adequate theoretical and practical training in the preventive field of biologic, bacteriological and public health risks, or, for example, something that we also believe is very basic, and that today will also be approved and believe that it is important, that it is considered to be full working time resulting from the prevention of occupational risks, both from the Mossos Cos d'Esquadra and from the Bombers Cos, as can be training the worker, waiting time to take a test of PCR to return to the work. And, therefore, that this time of prevention of occupational risks, therefore, did not compute in the Romanesque hour to return to the Administration. We also wanted to take into account, let us say, a situation very close to the coastal municipalities in the summer, which is that there is a very obvious problem that we need to strengthen the seedlings of the Squadron Mosses in those municipalities that greatly increase their population for a very short time. And also a measure that has pleased us is the emena– after we have finished commenting on the reviews–, the emena of the common partners, an important issue too, which is to return– an issue that has already been discussed several times in this room – together with the full import of sanctions imposed by local police or urban guards as a result of the application of the state of alarm. We believe that it is also an important issue to be discussed and that it is just to negotiate with the gatherings of this money, that it is a job that the local police and the city guards have done. All right, all right, These were our pretensions, I say: to learn primarily from the mistakes that have been made, not to stick to the word or much less, and to protect those people who protect us and who have more personal dedication, much to the extent that it would be professionally required and, therefore, we believe that this must be taken into account. Thank you very much; more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To position himself and defend the papers presented, he has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, I want to start my intervention, with the moteu we're dealing with, so I'm launching a message of support and grace, right? , to all the people who have contributed to this situation, and especially to the Cosos dels Mossos d'Esquadra, local police, Bombers, as well as to all the civil protection volunteering and the multiple social organizations that these days know they have left behind. I also want to thank Congressman Castillo for his initiative and for his willingness to accept our message. And well, entering the content, that already the advance that our group agrees with all the points that are planted and that, therefore, will vote in full in favour of the motion, so well, you start the motion with three points in which you refer to preventive and self-protection measures for the object of emergence. We are talking about the EPIs, in the form of protocols, measures with which we are fully in agreement. And here we do want to remember that at the beginning of the health emergency, the emergency services, and especially the squadron mosses, were highly unprotected, especially for which he referred to masks and text. We thought there was a problem of lack of forecast, because we know, because the unions had explained to us, that already in the month of generation had warned, when then the pandemic was in Xina, therefore, that it could arrive here in Catalonia and that it would provide for self-protection measures, and that was not done. So now, the moment we are, and they see what we've experienced, we think it's important, how does this young man put it on the table. We were also concerned or worried that during the peak of the pandemic we had a lot of movement from the squadron to the wing, because we could not make the texts. In fact, more than 1,400 moves in a full-scale situation. We understand that this has been corrected with the actualization of the texts, and this motion too, therefore, foresees some points of respect. Then we speak to you in points 4 and 5 of the need to plan and do it in a participatory way with the unions, which we also share and which also leads us to some of the learnings that we need to learn from how the pandemic was managed, because, when the confinement of the Ódena basin began, a specific device was activated through which the officers' quadrants were changed, going from a 4 to 2 device, four devices working twelve hours and two days of rest, to a new device, which was maintained until March 30, in which the unions that they had been, or were alerting, that this new device, which was intended, as is logically understandable, to increase the operation of the system, was not a task to be performed. Therefore, the need to plan together with the unions is another point we share. Then you, in points 6, 7 and 8 of the motion, depart from the management of the health emergency as you do the other points and incorporate other elements with which we may be more or less in agreement, but I say that we will vote in favour, but they do deviate from the focus of the motion, which up to here was on the management of the health emergency, and places in other questions that they have to see more with the citizen's safety, and they talk about more moves, more firefighters, strengthening the police presence in the coastal municipalities, to summon the local security juntas where the crimes have been increased. Well, there are some points that we share, but in any case, we do believe that they lead us to a reflection linking it to the management of the emergence, that we believe that this crisis must also serve us to rethink what we mean by security and what model of security we want, right? In fact, we've been in the Internal Affairs Committee for months, before the pandemic we were talking about issues that revolved around security, understood as a purely individual issue and very linked to property and property, right? We are talking about increasing thefts, small crimes, maintenance, housing occupancy, etc. And we believe that this crisis must lead us, therefore, to understand security from a much more collective perspective, with new threats that are not to be managed or addressed from a purely individual perspective, but rather a collective perspective, and redefine the concept of security around the emergence. And, therefore, with a new law of emergencies and more resources for civil protection and management of emergencies. And also – and with this I finish – we need to rethink it from a point of view of proximity, that is, as the response of a crisis that is global, but that has clear local effects and that requires us to respond from proximity. And here's our point that we presented, that we didn't understand that what we discussed in the past plenary, like the recapitulation of sanctions that came from complaints lodged during the state of alarm by local police and city guards, so that they didn't revert over the municipalities. Therefore, we call for greater involvement of the municipalities and return these resources to the relevant assemblies. All right, all right, Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Núria Picas, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.6.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor... well, before I begin my intervention, I would like to express my support for the President of our Parliament, Carme Forcadell, for the injustice she is living on the part of the Supreme Court and more than a king, so I want to talk about a set of revenge. So, all my support from here to Carmel. And, well, today we start with a youth about security policies, a security that's on the order of the day. We come from these last few months that we have suffered and continue to paint a situation of the all exceptional, where one of the collections that have been at the edge of the cano is..., are the emergencies of Catalonia, and in this case the Cos de Mosos d'Esquadra and the Cos de Bomberes y Bombers de la Generalitat... ; two things, as Congressman Castillo has said, that leave the skin, things that continue to work every day giving face to the first line in a job already complicated by itself, but if, moreover, we add a global pandemic, therefore, that has entailed a health crisis torn from the world, the situation is still more complicated. And here in Catalonia we believe that it is necessary to equip them with self-protection material and to train them on the protection of biological, bacteriological and public health risks so that they are protected in the development of their functions. Bearing in mind that the emergencies are in such risky situations, with direct contact with a large number of people, they have to count on protocols and measures that enable them to know above all how to act before each situation and how to protect themselves and to be very clear that an outbreak in a police station or an outbreak in a fire station can lead to serious problems in the territory. One of the points of this young man, which we will vote in favour, well, we will vote in favour of the whole young man, but we want to be grateful to Congressman Castillo for having accepted our question at point 8, so one of the points to highlight is that we can't stay on a simple prevention to avoid the contagion between these emergencies. Thus, in this case, in the event that there is some misconception or suspicion that it involves the pre-emptive confinement of some of its members, in this case the Administration has to account as in actual working time, as well as the time spent on training and the time spent by the person to carry out risk prevention measures. Therefore, consider full-time working time as a result of occupational risks. He also said that the operation of the Administration with the Emergencies cannot be unilateral, it must take into account the reality of the members of these bodies through their unions and it must count with close coordination with the assemblies, it is to say, with the local world, that it must be part of all the measures that are carried out after the department. That's why local safety assemblies are so important and so important. It is necessary to attend to the concrete reality of those municipalities where there is a significant increase in crimes, as is the case now, the summer months, across the coast of our country. And only with coordinated action between local authorities, jurisdictional bodies and the Department of Internal Affairs will it be possible to deal in the most just and effective way with the increase in crime suffered by some of these municipalities. Therefore, continue to work in this sense and in this good coordinated line of work. And finally, as I said to the initiator of my intervention, we find ourselves in an exceptional situation and the Administration must be on the rise, and prevent possible risks to those communities with closer contact with the citizenry and help them cope with the pandemic. Therefore, strengthen the emergence bodies with more action and above all in those municipalities where necessary, in a coordinated manner with the local world. And to finish, lastly, agitate, therefore, the ingenious effort of our emergence cosmos. And for our part, we work to protect these collections, which at the head and at the end are the ones who end up protecting us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jean Castel has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.8.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... In the first place, deputy Castillo, thank you for the presentation of this young man, who I called him right away, to his presentation, to remind him, right? ..., which was a copy and paste of many of the proposals approved by Citizens ago..., few full back. But also thank you for the points and thank you for the understanding that we had wanted to narrow down, when we talked about retirements incorporating the second activity..., pending from different governments, the second activity that applies to a decree that we know, and not a law. Also thank you that when we talked about where there has been significance, problems, PCR tests, of course, congressman... And thank you also for all the decalogue of good intentions. I say to you: how can it not be a vote in favour when the claim is Citizens to the point of satiety? One by one has defended them both in plenary and in committee. I'll give you a positive vote. But today I want to make a reading, a reading addressed to the parliamentary groups that give support to the Government. We heard... you were talking, Congressman Castle, about mistakes. I think we should call it 'lost opportunities', because mistakes are when someone has the opportunity to vote in favour and have a legislature or much of a legislature for an executive to do his or her job and turn it into reality, and another when we call him or her'mistakes'. Errors not: lack of responsibility of parliamentary groups who have had the opportunity in committee to support measures that you incorporate in this motion today and which I gladly thank you again, but lack of responsibility of those who today had the opportunity, of a past time that no longer returns... And citizens have the right to know that, with electoral elections that are already interpreted in this plenary around the corner, this whole decalogue of good intentions, like the one approved by Citizens two fulls ago, where the vote in favour, which gave viability, but without time to execute..., citizens have the right to know that all this that is approved with elections around the corner will fall. And the groups that have given support to the Government are called for responsibility. Why? Because they have had the opportunity, during a parliamentary term, to approve all the points that this motion incorporates – and you, Mr Castillo, you know – have had the opportunity to vote in favour in committee. And what have they done? Go to the session log and get your positioning: or act by putting on a political waist and not getting wet, or throwing balls out, because the responsibility of an executive..., calls me and tells me: "Do not approve this, put me to work. It's embarrassing. It is shameful that the return of institutional responsibility..., take hold of it in this way. The institutional responsibility, also for the groups of mossos d'esquadra or firefighters, is to take care of them, accompany them and solve their problems; when others propose solutions, put themselves next to the solution, not next to the wear, which then seems to be that, at the end of a legislature that is already interpreted with these average elections announced, you now go to the discourse of the great solution. They've had four years to do it. Do not come here today to do the posture, in many cases, to incorporate measures that have, as I said, had the opportunity to vote in favour in committee and have completely circumvented them. Thank you again, Mr Castillo, for incorporating proposals that from this parliamentary group we have defended as active and passive, and with the negative surprise of the negative vote of those who took responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix her position, she continues to have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.10.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, this motion for a resolution is a motion for a resolution that we practically agree with at all points, but we think we need to do some stuff. We shall abstain from points 8 and 9 and, in accordance with point 6, we shall vote in favour, but we understand that increasing the number of effects must be done by means of planning, and also by trying to know where it is also necessary, because there is also a need for measures, also social educators, and, therefore, it is necessary to make overall planning and not to focus solely on the security vision of how to cope with this situation of health emergency. We recently knew the effects of the largest audience in the history of the squadron moss, and it seems that the conclusion has been that it is necessary to increase the effects of the anti-evasive units. So the truth is, if that's what they're trying to do, we don't agree. We continue to demand that Brimo and ARRO be dissolved and that police brutality be brought to an end. For another band, and respect local security juntas, yes, it's good to have local security juntas convened and coordinated with the judiciary, with local authorities... But, again, when we have crime problems, it's because before there's a problem that hasn't been solved. And we understand that more community plans are calling, more social educators are calling, and that we need to do a job with every barrier, with every people, with every city and with every village, before a situation in which people do not have their own rights covered, so their rights are minimal and essential in order to enjoy a dignified life. And lastly, respect the sanctions, we have already talked about it: the truth is that, as sanctions are imposed, we cannot agree with this point, because the law bites, a law that violates civil and political rights. There is no sanctioning regime. Eduard Sallent tells the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to apply disobedience when there is no disobedience, because, because there is disobedience, there has to be an order that has not been obeyed, and this is not the case with sanctions for this issue. I'm for... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Well, that's it. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.12.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Abandoned, abandoned to his fate and subdued to constant hesitation and indeterminateness of the Interior Council: these are the maximums that described the initial moments of the pandemic towards the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squads. This dynamic, which has already been practically corrected at the end of the pandemic, has resulted in more than 1,700 Squadron moss being lowered, basically one part for prevention and another part for contagious diseases due to the lack of protection and prevention material for police stations, and also in the exercise of public safety functions in Catalan lives. After the Bombers, which initially were completely underutilized, after the month of March they were able to incorporate in the tasks of disinfection of residences and health centers, as done and as the Bombers themselves demanded and the Interior Council denied them. We will vote, obviously, as it cannot be otherwise, in favour of this motion, among other things, because it is very much in favour of the resolutions and PR drawings – do not panic – that we have brought to this place all the opposition groups, that, knowing the situation, that, knowing that the squadron movements have had to resort to the courts, have had to be the precautionary measures of the High Court of Justice that put the needle in line with the constant lack of protection given to these professionals by the Interior Council, that we will vote in favour, because it prevents, more securely, reinforcements in formation and reinforcement also of agents and of the total bombardments in the areas concerned. But we won't be telling each other one thing. Today is the last full of July, we don't know whether or not there will be elections, but the political will that this government has shown to recognize and reward the tasks of all resident health personnel has not been the same with the squadron moves and the bombers, which today, unlike the health workers and those geriatric workers, won't be rewarded with their task. Go forward: from here, our grace.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.14.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, also go ahead with the support of our group and the embrace of our group for which it was the president of this Parliament, which, as the Supreme Court says, is more proof that political prisoners are actually political prisoners. Well... and that may please you more or less, but it's the finding of a fact. Mirin, there's a lot of consensus in normal countries, huh? And, regardless of who governments, the citizens know what to eat, because there are all clear lines of action in certain areas. In the area of security policies, we believe that it should be one such consensus: the number of effects, the protection that these effects have, or the security reinforcements that the basic police areas of the country where they are are. The proposal, the motion presented to us by the Socialist Group and Unites per Avance, to which we have not submitted papers, because we have had a look without going into details, it seemed to us that the joint agreement that proposed to us was sufficiently broad because, regardless of the political perspective from which we slept, then we could vote in favour... I must tell you, Mr. Castillo, that we liked the proposal that had been presented to us better than the proposal that he presented at the end. [[the timer riu]] But in any case we'll give it support. I don't know if you know how hard it is, Mr. Castel, that we support him, to the totality of this young man, but we will support the totality of this young man because many of the things that are spoken in this young man are already being done. Currently, EPIs are being distributed every month, every beginning of the month, masks, protective gloves, particle dresses, protective glasses..., every beginning of the month is being distributed in all the commissariats of Mossos d'Esquadra. And that's what we're voting for, and that's what we're voting for. Courses are taking place throughout the year because the Mosses know the risks of biological or bacteriological contamination and are thus free from infection or infection. And that's what's happening. And that's been going on for a while, and this has already voted in favour of this group. And every time there are measures to protect the safety of public workers, and of movements in particular, this parliamentary group will vote in favour of it, as it cannot otherwise be. It's the compliment of a rule. They're asking us, point six, huh? ...,one of these unanimous country I think should go through this point 6. It is said: "Continue with the summoning of squadrons and bombers in their own years and contemplate it in the assumptions. Moreover, as a result of Ciutadans's emena, there has been an increase in legislation on the second occupation. We absolutely agree. In fact, we are absolutely in agreement, because in 2006, when the Board of Security of Catalonia determines that the number of moves must be around the divide_thousand, it does not take into account the social changes that have occurred in these fourteen years in Catalonia, it has not been..., there are terrorist threats, there are criminal gangs, there is an increase in gender-based violence, there is an increase in the population in Catalonia; it is obvious that there are going to be calls for places. Besides, it is known, the first promotions of Mossos d'Esquadra will begin to retire. And, as a result of an agreement with this Government... as a result of an agreement with this Government, which this Government has made two great transcendental agreements, Mr. Castel, with the Cos de Mossos and with the Cos de Bombers, and as a result of these great agreements which it has made with the unions, it recognizes retirement at the age of sixty. And we also need to consider possible second occupations. In the summer, will the police areas of the coast be strengthened? Yeah, they'll reinforce as they always do, and they'll reinforce more. Why? Why, Mr. Castel? Because the number of police officers in Catalonia has increased, and it has increased because there have been some..., there are 1,250 more than there were in 2018, and there is a call of 750 more. And there they are. And that's what we voted for, and that's what we did, and we filed three decrees in this Parliament for approval. From paragraph 8. You were talking about "striking"..., "convoking local security assemblies where criminal and burglary occupations have been made worse with force at home and second residences, and this has ended" in those municipalities where there has been a significant increase in crimes. Local security juntas call on the mayors. They can't urge the government to call local security assemblies when they don't have the competition. And yes, there are criminal occupations, and if they're a problem, then I can't look for euphemisms. We're worried, we're talking about it and it's not happening. Agrair, Mr. Castle, the to, the knowledge and the ability to reach agreements. To tell him, to reiterate that we will give support to the totality of his motion, because it forms part of the consensus that there should be in this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now, finally, he has a twist to position himself on the issues of the new Member of Parliament Castle. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.16.0	Well, so, very briefly, above all to highlight – already said, no? – that in matters of security we are really able to take a full look and reach a great deal of agreement, even though it is in general questions. To the deputy Castel I must say – I can't help but say – that, man – the company Esperanza García has already said, too – here have been touched by fears that have been touched a thousand times, it is not that you have touched them. I think there's got to be some humiliation. I think we've all touched them. And they're important fears, they're recurrent fears, because they don't have to be solved, too, gentlemen of the government, groups that support the government; they're questions that don't have to be solved at all, and so they're still in the picture and we're still touching them, they're still approving, and we're hoping, then, that at some point they actually have an application to reality. But I want to highlight mainly this ability that in the end we have in questions of security all folds, and with a certain, perhaps also electoral, some deputies or deputies, it is normal, but we are able to agree on the great issues of security and we are able to reach agreement, and I think that is the highlight. Well, he also wanted to end up, without going into any more discussions, as you might understand... so send a personal hug to Carme Forcadell as well. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.17.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Jean Castel Sucarrat asks to speak.]] Why ask me the word, sir...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.18.0	For two reasons, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.19.0	Allusions, no. They know that... no, on the turn of the motions, they're talking to each other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.20.0	I've been greeted three times...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.21.0	Deputy, you don't have the word, no. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the strategy to guarantee the right to housing]] [[302-0023/12]] Keep going. The next point is the motion following the question to the Government about the strategy to guarantee the right to housing, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. Mrs Susana Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.22.0	Thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. « Catalunya leads the number of denunciations throughout the State. This is a phrase that we have repeated many times in this Parliament and that we will not tire of repeating. As well as the 70_per_cent of these charges are now for logging, it's no longer for foreclosure. The counselor, in his reply to our question, made it very clear to us, in some way, that housing policies are long-term, right? About three years old, at least. So the year where there were-there were more denunciations in this period was 2016, which already did two long cycles since there was the government, which at the time was Democratic Convergence, then it was Junts for the Yes, then it was Junts for Catalonia, without talking about the Pujol era. Therefore, it is clear that the long cycles and housing policy of this country basically marked it Democratic Convergence and now Together for Catalonia. The great advances that have taken place in these past two years have been the result of Law 24/2015, which was the result of social mobilizations and the success of social organizations, and Decree 17/2019, which was also the result of negotiation, the negotiation capacity of the Department of Territories with entities and with social organizations and with assemblies, because, if not, it would not have been approved, as it was with the previous failed decree. The competition for housing is from the Generalitat de Catalunya. We also have to repeat this several times, because it often seems that it is oblivious, and, in fact, it seems that the Government of the Government of Catalonia always sees that it does not have to see with them the answer to the housing emergency, and, if not, it can only review the papers submitted for the Government, where they basically continue to launch pilots all the way out, mainly from the joints and from the State, instead of assuming their own responsibilities. And, in those parts that don't, basically try to enlarge, dilute and lower, as usual. On the side of the reviews, I'll answer about that. We have tried to do our utmost to reach agreement, because we can approve a good part of the motion, because we believe it is the duty of this Parliament to give an answer to the situation that is going on. But a good part of the problem that we are living is precisely for the housing model, for the housing policies that have taken place, both in Catalonia and also, for a long time, the Government of the State, with the Popular Party and its reform of the Law of urban leases as undisputed stars; policies that have encouraged speculation with ownership, with housing, that have taxed the Societies to enrich themselves at the expense of the need for housing, of those who never pay for the crisis. Just this Tuesday we had the debate on the Law Proposal for the regulation of loggers, and, in fact, there was already someone who commented on the famous case of the big person without tickets who has a pee that fits and that with that complements the thought. Well, just yesterday we had the luck that coincided that the Observatori Metropolità de l'Habitatge, with data from Incasòl, made a report where it is found that the 30_percent of the city's logger park of Barcelona is in the hands of great affections. And if, besides, we're down to what they have more than three habitats, that's practically up to 50 percent. Therefore, it is clear that a regulation of the loggers and, above all, if it affects this housing park, will clearly affect a drop in the price of loggers. We have also seen that we already have the report, as it did, of the Authority of Competition, on the alleged lack of offer that would cause this regulation of the loguers. Is it true that there is someone who believes that these more than fifty thousand floors that are in the hands of property and large private owners would no longer fit because there is a regulation of loguers? , that, because they would stop charging..., instead of 1,200-1,300_euros would be charged seven hundred-eight-cents, would be empty and no one would rent them, and therefore there would be no offer of housing? The reason we have presented them is the result of consensus, conversation and working with assemblies and social organizations. In fact, a good part of the measures come from the Lloggers Union and the ILP Follow-up Commission 24/2015; they are proposals that most of you also have because they were sent to all groups. We believe that it is more necessary than ever, and has already been approved at other times, that the Generality engages and leads a great country pact to give response to housing emergence, together with social organizations. Cal lead this. They will be disturbed by the word "State; no matter, we betray it. So, while the result is that it's really up front, that it takes on its skills, that it executes the laws they have, that it puts resources in it to execute all the legislative mechanisms they have, that it actually makes the necessary modifications – that they can do them – because it can reverse the demands of tourist flats, it doesn't follow perpetuity, to start sanctioning shippers, because the Catalan Habitat Agency can have this inspection and control capacity, and to force it to provide sociallogger. There are many ways they can do more to put resources forward. For example, with the extraordinary resources coming to face the emergence of the Covid. If we don't put the housing forward, we won't get out of this emergence. And, for that, it's brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.24.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, it seems that in this Ple we will speak habitating force. We have done so now with the motion presented to us by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, with which we must say that we agree in many points of what it presents. From the outset, we agree with the first point, in the finding that Covid-19 has made the housing crisis in our country worse than two years ago and, therefore, measures must be taken, that is, useful and effective in reversing this situation. In fact, we also made it manifest in the inquiry and in the subsequent motion that we presented to the previous plenary. Certainly, Counselor, since we have him here, fifteen days ago this House approved the immediate lifting of the call for help to the group of people affected by the Covid-19, and his department has not yet done so. The government has a mandate from this Parliament, and families still need these help. Therefore, let us hope that we will not find ourselves in another incompliment of the Government, which would be harmful to so many families. And in this sense there was also the reason that we are dealing with today, when we ask that part of the extraordinary resources that come from the State to face the Covid is destined to face the challenges of housing. But, beyond these concrete points centered on the Covid and its consequences from the housing point of view, this young man is a great cadre of tailors who want to fit these great themes, fit so many different themes, as complex as for example the topic of local administration, landownership, talk about sub-administrations, talk about the granting of licenses for touristic habitats and talk about occupations without enabling title. And at this point, our group has presented, respecting occupations without enabling title, a theme. You argue that the government is making a support plan for vulnerable people in an occupation without a title, and it is obvious that this integral plan that they ask – our group, two years ago we asked – but not just to accompany the families that they are occupying, because we understand that this is just one of the cares of the occupation. The government must stop looking at the other side and face this phenomenon of occupation in all its futures, the housing, the social, but also the one that makes reference to security, and that faces it together with the assemblies. It can't be that the gatherings are coming back to finding solos with a theme like this. They did not accept the message that they did not want to link criminal occupation with the right to decent housing, but, in our view, they are related, since many vulnerable families are in the hands of the mafias who negotiate with their own need, just as it also affects the right to have decent housing and common spaces that also form part of the housing of the veins and veins affected by these situations of occupation. This is a topic where we need to get in and not waste time. And referring to the reviews, we added an incis in the point referring to the increase in the resources of the local housing office, as to the need for this increase also to make the intermediation and negotiation tasks between owners and lodgers, between other things for the reduction of the returns to log. It seems that because of more technical than political reasons, therefore, they have not been accepted, and we have seen that in the transaction they have made with the groups that are finally giving the government this part of the text has been included. And, finally, look, two points have been caught up in his motion: the first, which is the second point, which talks about working together with the other administrations of the State to make a great pact of state for housing, and the third, which calls for management before the Government of the State to make the necessary legislative changes to regulate the prices of the loguer. And they surprised us because we see how, on the one hand, we ask for coordination with the State, they want the State to take measures to curb the prices of the logue, but, on the other hand, we see that they are pushing a proposal for law to put in place measures to moderate the prices of the logue knowing that this is not a matter for this Parliament and knowing that this will lead to a competition dispute. In the same plethora, you manifest your contradictions. You can't do all the papers in the loop – there was some group that tried and didn't do it well – at the same time. It is not possible to gather initiatives that mean feeding the confrontation between governments while the coordination between them is called for. Or, rather, yes it can; if the only one you claim is to cheat and make a good headline in front of elections that seem imminent. In any case and focusing on the motion, our group will reap a good share of the agreements that are put in place because we share the diagnosis of problems and the majority of possible solutions, with the retribution, but that, at these heights of the legislature, little or no transcendence will be in the action of the Government, divided and exhausted, more focused on electoral expectations and the division of its political space than not in governing for all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergio Sanz has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.26.0	Thank you, President. We find ourselves before..., counselor, deputies, deputies– forgive me, who did not find them–, we find ourselves before a housing movement that is quite extensive, has divided points. And at first we see that we have important conceptual differences, but we also see a trap. The trap is that, because the rest of the groups can see that the crisis of the Covid-19 has made the problem of housing even worse, that we should vote in favour of regulating the prices of the loguers. And you can agree with the first part, but you can't share or you can doubt the second part. And the commons have expressly avoided – which paradox is so common – that we can reach a common conclusion. And they have a reason to do it. It is not so much a matter of reaching agreements or solving the problem of housing as of building a manicuous speech of good and painful. But they know perfectly well that the convenience and effects of loggers regulation are much discussed. In his intervention the Catalan Competition Agency, and also people of the academic world of social-democratic tendencies, said this. I mean, it's something that's not clear. And we don't just see it clear from my group. In fact, I am convinced that most Members of this Parliament, independently of what they vote for by voting discipline, also agree that this is not the solution. And we say that we are open to studying the regulation of the habitation loggers of a certain old age that has been out of date. In fact, we've introduced him to a young man, and we've introduced him to this young man as well, but he's been turned down. I would also like to say that the preus de lloguer progeny mainly because there is a problem: that there is more demand than it offers. And when there's more demand than offer, they end up pushing the priests. But it's also a problem, it's true, that it's affecting a good that's essential to be able to develop fundamental rights and that it has to fulfill a social function. But it is important to be responsible and to recognise reality: it is a much discussed measure. And it is discussed because where it has applied, it has often not had the desired effect, but the contrary: it has reduced the offer of logger, it has reduced the promotion of our habitats to logger or it has also created a black market, because the continuing demand exists, therefore, these effects of submerged economy are produced. And this, in the long run, worsens the problem of housing, even though some electoral problem has been solved. But the ones who pay for it are always the same, the ones who are the least. And enough problems are already the prices of the loguers as for hard to term initiatives that can make the problem worse. Similarly, we wanted Parliament to find that Covid-19 has made the housing crisis worse, which is why we have presented a message seeking the maximum common denominator. Seeking an alternative consensus, what we have come to is that it is recognized that no public policies of habitating stickers have been made or made. So, if you don't recognize, if responsibility is always discharged into elements alien to public policies, we won't do things right. And we're not doing the right thing because we've invested a little bit in housing policies and the creation of a public housing park, which is the idea that we'd probably all agree, but the common people didn't want us to come up with these common conclusions. So much so that we have been told that it was very difficult to accept or deal with the six items that we have submitted. It's no surprise, the game is obvious. It is not a matter of reaching agreements, but of showing the differences between each other. So there are differences, because in the text of the motion they proposed to make institutional propaganda to the media, we have presented a plan to reduce spending to half in media, to allocate these resources to housing policies. But they didn't accept it. It seems that there are totems that do not want to touch, even though it is to release resources for a thing as funamental as habitating. And it's a big deal, because the generality is dedicated to housing policies half of what autonomous communities are meant to have in relation to their assumptions. And as this goes on, he dedicates to TV3 twice as many resources as Andalusia to his television or four times more than Madrid to Telemadrid. And this is the premise of the Generality that was approved thanks to the votes of the commons. We see the priorities and what's going on. Neither have they accepted our quest to promote the construction of five thousand public habitats a year, instead of building Colau's contained habitats, and has ended with a transaction with the government in which they say they will promote the construction of endowment habitats. The government is always pushing things, but it needs to demand concreteness, because it does nothing. In short, we find that we have models of approximation to different public policies. We have a closer approach based on evidence than on magic solutions or banners. I ended up, president, announcing that, as the young lady has many points, we would do different votes depending on what I proposed each, because there are things that we also share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr José Rodríguez has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.28.0	Thank you, President. Today it is difficult to do politics as if you didn't pass anything, as if after the Supreme withdrew the second degree to President Carme Forcadell... We can't continue day by day as if you didn't pass anything. It's a feeling with a clear vengeful intent. And I want to highlight my support and that of my group and, in fact, that of most Democrats in this chamber to the president. It is also difficult to talk about housing policies when we move between the Escillala and the Caribdis to hold the competitions, but with a chronic underfunding, and with almost all the regulatory regulatory margin in the hands of a state that always legislates in favor of the powerful and the Florentines to return. In fact, when we talk about housing policies in this Parliament, I always go to the top of some of the motivations for those who made me independent. And in fact, there are also surprising things like listening to a neoclassical economics manual in this faristol, for example, as if the housing market was a market that was no longer influenced and affected and controlled and was a free market, which is not. And we have almost come to explain Laffer's raven and magical solutions that arise at the Juan de Mariana Institute, which is an anarchist institute. But it's normal, there's a game that's a mistress of this economic font. Still, we want to thank Congresswoman Susanna Segovia for the motion. Normally, this type of housing motion tends to be a string of unfinished proposals, many of them toasts to the sun; but this time we find ourselves a quite complete and even realistic motion, which really seeks to do work within the small margin we have in Parliament. I also think that I should highlight the effort of generosity in trying to fit the set of elements that we have presented to the two groups of government, on the part of the proposer, but also the effort of the departments to facilitate the agreement. We believe that the young man has become rich and, above all, guarantees a broad support that makes the government's commitments more meaningful. There is, however, some trap from this young man. An example is the expense request in the Covid housing fund. You know that you're finished and that the first game that was to arrive this June/July and the second that is to arrive in November are to cover healthcare expenses. The third game, which has to arrive, in principle, in September is associated with educational expenditure, and the fourth tram is to compensate for the drop in public entrances, and the part in which there could be a certain margin is for public transport and especially for the transport of the city of Barcelona. And so we strive to demand this state foundation, and therefore we will not vote against it. We hope that the most progressive government in Spain's history will help us to try to find a part of these Covid funds destined for housing. Another part is around the launch protocol between Justicia and the TSJC. You, which I'll explain to you, won't be there, because you have a protocol that looks like the TSJC, the Department of Justice and the Barcelona Assembly. The existing protocols are now more ambitious and advanced than the one that would make us sign the judiciary. The General Council of the Judiciary subjects the new protocols to a much less ambitious standard model. For a strange reason you ask us to do what they do not want by the protocol of the city of Barcelona. There's a point where maybe he didn't accept our message, but we want to tell him that we're going to make a different vote to facilitate his approval. We want the Department of Enterprise to close as soon as possible you agree with the basic service managers. It's enough that the families are accumulating debt. We must honour Parliament's commitment in the previous parliamentary term with Law 24/2015, because this law applies to everything. If we really want to prove to the citizen of Catalonia that we want a state of our own and that Parliament does much more advance than they do in the country, we must make governments honor them. And I want to end up with an alert. Habitat policies, in this young man there is, as there is also in the assumptions and in the effort made by the department and the government to mobilize resources, as also in Decree 17/2019 that pushed Territori and validated this Parliament. Now, if the groups that we give support to the law of limitation of the price of the lloger can't pull it forward so that we don't know how to withstand the pressures that we can put on the economic powers, the lobbying of the construction, the entities of great tenors or even some mayor who want to perpetuate a speculative model in his municipality, we won't have shown that this Parliament is better than the Congress of Deputies. Being a word-independent is very easy. Tothom can't make a statement. Exercising's the hard thing. And the warning that independent deputies can make is to demonstrate with facts that they can make Parliament a chamber where the pressures of the powerful have less than the Congress of Deputies. For this reason we demand that we all remain strong, and with housing policies, today, is to vote in favour of some points of this motion that we have negotiated, but also to honour the agreement on the Llogger Price Limitation Bill Proposal. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs. Glòria Freixa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.30.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, today, Catalonia in Comú We can present this motion on the strategy to guarantee the right to housing. If we are not ideologically speaking German political formations, we can say that in housing we share the same concern and the same gain of finding a way out. If you have to find two points that might separate us, you will once more be drawn up that eternal letter to the King who makes from his party without ever looking at how these Kings could find a solution to a problem of such dimensions, such as, for example, providing a presumption of all the measures that you pose; that is, to convert the object into the reality that we all want. And, secondly, perhaps they also oblivion that social policies have to be made from administrations and listening to all actors. You also said it: all actors in conflict. And you, when it comes to habitating, oblivion, and even criminalizing, the rights of small owners, bartering naps with cols, small owners, great masters, great masters is the same if they are the ones who have fifteen habitats, if they are the great sources of reversal... The question is: there are no public policies that reach physical people. As the headline is good, but this is not the reality of Catalonia or what we want. It is compatible to defend everyone's rights, and above all to listen to all actors, please or not. And precisely because, from this, we are aware, from the department, from the government, they have gone into politics in the matter of housing from many years ago, they are aware that the politics we have to do them ourselves and we do not have to carry them over the physical people. Already... the year 2015 already has a decree that offers the right of aunt and retraction to joint ventures, to entities of the third sector, also to the Government, to the Generality. Why? Because they could be the first to opt for all that habitation package that was left behind at the time of the crisis, facilitating at that time the release of three thousand habitations to Catalonia's habitation park. If it had to be built, we'd have to work a lot more. The tax on empty dwellings. I don't know if you know that, but there's no place in Spain. He's got Catalonia. Also the reference index of logger prices. He seems to have liked them, because they've finished taking him. They took it late, we did it the year 2017, and they took it badly, because the mechanism they use to make these indexes doesn't fit the reality. That still isn't enough, not enough to say, we're very conscious. The Generality, yes, we want to say, allocates a large number of resources to policies to help citizens at risk of residential exclusion through different lines of help. We already know that they do not want to talk about financing, that it bothers them, that they tire them, but, look, this year 2019, the State has contributed 37_million euros in aid to the loguers while the Generality has to face the rest of the millions, until it reaches 101, which they have applied for this type of aid. Because the policies in Spain are: we have a boss, we take it, and when it's over, the stake has been closed; while Catalonia is given an answer to all those petitions that fulfill the requirements. The reason we're here today is already on the government's line of action. Therefore, to the petitions of his motion: "to allocate resources to the fight of housing emergency to ensure a decent habitation, we are doing so and we will continue to do so; "to apply a shoc plan to give response to housing emergencies, we are doing it and we will do it; "to inform the citizens about the rights in housing matter, we have done it and we will do it; "to compliment the law for the compulsory cessation of empty floors, we are doing it and we will do it; "to lay down the tools to avoid the real estate speculation, we are doing it and we will do it. We reaffirm ourselves, however, in our discussions, because we believe that in many cases they forget the gatherings of what you have spoken about, but many times they are the great connoisseurs of the reality and complexity of their municipalities and they are the ones who can provide the most solutions. Also in the case of touristic habitations, the withdrawal of claims, a claim that when you are arrested, you are permanently arrested. We would like more legal certainty, and we know that to limit – to limit – this concession you would have to reform the state law and is in your hands. And then I leave it in the hands of the gatherings, which, as we say, are the great connoisseurs. That said, remember that you can help us, and you can help us a lot, no longer just by going to Madrid to ask for a wider line of financing for the Generality, because I believe that all the citizens deserve it, but also, when it comes to the Sareb, as the Councillor already asked in the last intervention, the name "bad bank, which already makes available to the Generality the more than 3,500" lives that they have at their disposal in order to be able to respond to this emergence that we live in. We wait for them, in this shared struggle. And a very strong record for Carme Forcadell. We're with you and we won't stop until you're free. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix its position it has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.32.0	Deputies, deputies, councillor, good morning. Well, many thanks to Catalonia in Comú may have been due to many requests from the ILP promoter commission and also from the Llogateres Union. They're minor requests that we should be applying by now. And the truth is that we would focus on Mrs. Freixa's intervention, because if you have the same concern that is shown in this young man with certain measures, so, if you also have the same will to find a way out, look, you can do something that doesn't even depend on the financing, that costs zero_euros and that is said to regulate the prices of the unsaid loguer, that they are a theme to the totality of the agreement reached with social movements. Mirin, it is intolerable, it is intolerable in a situation of health emergency that your vagina says "that no one is left behind, "the lives of people in the center. That's enough rudders. We don't want any more rudders. We want parties, and the parties want to complete the agreements that we all reached together. On the 14th of July I was, in this meeting, but there was also the Trade Union of Llogateres, there were also representatives of Esquerra Republicana and Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. And the truth is, we all have the same facts, except for you. So something must have happened. Maybe someone's taken the phone and they're pressing them. Maybe there are builders, maybe there's someone who's pressing them. Look, don't plan on the little owner's protection report, and that we want to take full responsibility for physical people. No, no, That's not it. And you know it perfectly well. It's been many years since they've ruled the interests or depending on the interests of the old people. You've had a customer network for many years that always responds to the same interests. And that's enough. We are in a situation of health emergency, in an economic and social crisis without precedent. Young people in this country can't, 70_percent of young people in this country can't access a healthy diet because they spend 40_percent of their money and precarious under paying for housing. You have the right to housing to be a priority, and you don't seem to be. And, therefore, they still have the opportunity, they still have the opportunity to respect the pact that they reached with social movements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.34.0	Thank you, President, Councillor, Members of Parliament. Yes, physical people are the ones who suffer from the governance and proposals of groups like this young man today. Yeah, physical people are the ones who beat him. In two ways: one, because physical persons are those who have problems paying for the logger; two, because the measures you usually put on the table affect physical persons who are habitation owners and who try to dedicate them to the logger. It is to say, in all senses, the main losers of these policies are the physical people, those who cannot pay the logger and those who have floors in their property that try to take out an income and, thanks to the policies that you have on the table, therefore, cannot take out this income. And in the end, taunting one another, what they do is taunt the others, because what they achieve is reduce the housing offer of lloger. We agree there's a problem. We agree, we've said it many times. We agree there's a problem. We deeply disagree on measures to try to address this problem. Insist on regular pricing. Certainly, they recognize the state competence of the fixing of the price of the logue, and not the competence of the Generality, and in this sense you propose that the Generality exercise this competence without holding it, which is absolutely incongruent. Insist on tying rights to illegal occupations. Continue ignoring the 140,000 families that are in the Register of Solicitors of Habitatage. Just insist on helping them with the logger. We don't see it badly, but as a transitory measure, not as a definitive measure to solve the problem. Helping the logger doesn't solve the problem. The problem is solved at a certain time, but not permanently. The problem can only be solved on a permanent basis by exercising the skills we have in urban planning and housing. We tell them, but you also tell them, for example, yesterday, the Catalan Authority of Competition. Increase the offer, urban measures, etc. Let me just remind you of them, once again, some data that will allow you to see where the responsibilities are: Paris, 22_percent of housing of social logger; Berlin, 30_per_cent; London, 24_per_cent; New York, 40_per_cent; Barcelona of Ada Colau, 1_per_cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to position herself on the exams, has a twist of word the deputy Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.36.0	Well, thank you very much. I would like to thank all the groups for the contributions they have made to us, that we could actually talk a little bit to the currents, but yes, this House is talking so much about housing, sense of doubt, that's good news. It's because he agrees, it's because he doesn't agree with the fears they're raising. I see above the table from there that there is no incongruity in presenting the proposed law of regulation of loguers and asking that the State is also moved because this regulation of loguers is not done only to Catalonia for the Civil Code, but it is done to the whole State, because the problem of abusive increases in loguers is not only in Catalonia. Then, move forward at two speeds, leading from Catalonia this regulation, but at once, from Catalonia also move forward to ask the government to complete an agreement that is provided for by the government's coalition agreement between PSOE, United Podemos - In Comú Podemos, I believe that it is not absolutely incongruent, it is, precisely, to put forward the need for this regulation of loguers as before better. One thing clear, that the regulation reduces the index does not mean that we like the index, means that it is the result of a negotiation and an agreement between Justicia, the Department of Territories and the Union of Lodgers – the Department of Territories of the group that is now presenting the papers boycotting this proposal of the law. Therefore, I am also in addition to the requests that have been made to respect the agreement and that it is not because of these pressures and these changes of opinion, which we have not just heard when Territori has been part of the negotiation that has now changed. The counselor says no, but then I should have Constellera Capella here before to see exactly how she does it with her head, as we said the other day. Or, one more time the government's failure to agree between the members of the government can stop a law proposal with which we have to get Catalonia to be a pioneer, and we will give the battle here, to the state and where we are, because this regulation is effective. And no, it's not a regulation that's going to tempt small owners. In any case, I think it is important that we bear in mind that when there is a conflict between the right to housing of some and the right to wealth of those who have fifteen floors, it seems to me that it is quite clear that this Parliament must position itself in favour of those who have to allocate the 40, 50_per_cent of their tickets to pay and that they are not able to. To put the example that who has fifteen floors is not a great owner, first, is against the law of the decree that was approved, which he already did, and second, to think that actually having fifteen floors does not deserve that physical and legal persons, because they have forgotten in all interventions of legal persons, curiously, when they are also good part of the great possessions are legal persons. To think that to have fifteen floors is not a reason because it is the rule of the abusive increases of logging fifteen properties seems to me that it is not for the right to habitat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. This young man's debate is over. I would like to warn you that the vote will take place today at midday after the order of the day has been exhausted together with the rest of the votes. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into autonomous public communication media]] [[302-0024/12]] Let's move on to the twenty-two point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the autonomous public communication media, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose the young man has the word the deputy Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.38.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the motion we bring you here today is to talk about the public media in Catalonia again, in an interpellation in a subsequent motion to an interpellation that I made to Councilwoman Budó last week, and we talk primarily about the inadmissible interference of the Government in the way in which the public media proceed. Basically we ask the groups of the chamber, all of them, including the separatist parties, to condemn the illegitimate and abusive interference of the Government of the Generalitat in the public media of Catalonia. Above all, because of the words that Mrs Vilallonga said, which without ambiguities recognized a few days ago that she had given a touch to the direction of TV3 because of the excessive, in her opinion, presence of Castilian on the public television of Catalonia. It does not seem curious to him that the presence of the Castilian in a fiction series that broadcasts TV3, when the Castilian is the majority language of the citizens of Catalonia. Moreover, it must be recognized that TV3 is exceeded every week, and in the time between the interpretation that I formulated a few days ago and today TV3 has surpassed itself, has advanced itself by the right, in fact, and last weekend TV3 offered to the audience a program in which on Saturday, in the program Questiones Frequents, three of the prisoners who are, who have just entered the third degree, of the three prisoners who gave the blow to democracy of the year 17 in this Chamber, who have accessed a fulguring access to the third degree prison. And the interview was, once again, an exercise in sentimental pornography in which the prisoners were able to speak – prisoners still serving their sentences, remember it –, they were able to speak joyfully of... "quietly, for not saying anything that could prove offensive to you, to those of the separatist bench. But, in any case, they were able to talk quietly about their activities in prison, they were able to talk about what they do, so, about the drawing, the calligraphy, the theater..., all the activities they do, but not a single word that came out of their mouth, and not even the slightest question from the presenter of the FAQ program about the damage they inflicted on the citizens of Catalonia in 2017, about the systematic violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia that we have suffered from this Parliament in 2017; not a single word about the massive corporate flight that has occurred as a result of their acting as rulers. Absolutely not a single word of criticism on the part of the public media in Catalonia to those who carried out the coup to democracy in the year 17. Of course, of them also did not start the slightest self-criticism, and this was in the interviews on Saturday, but it is that in the interview on Sunday, which in this case went to the former president of the Generalitat, to Mr. Junqueras, in charge of Mr. Sanchis, it was an interview that, in fact, it is true that there was a certain tension, but they do not believe that it was a tension due to the professional journalistic pruritus of the director of the chain, no, no, it was a tension between the two parties that govern Catalonia, which now seems to be in the Gregna, and that was clearly reflected in the interview, which was a debate between Sanchis and Junqueras. But Sanchis did not harm him either the systematic violation of fundamental rights of the citizens of Catalonia, or the flight of companies, or everything I have previously reported, but in any case they came to have some tension because of their strictly – strictly – partisan differences. Mr Junqueras, by the way, dedicated himself to giving moral lessons to all opposition parties. Very concretely, I found the appeal he made to Mr.Iceta particularly nauseating; he told Mr.Iceta if he would dare to look him in the face. Hey, Mr. Junqueras, this is a rule of law with separation of powers. You're not the one to tell Mr. Iceta that you won't have the courage to look him in the face. He has all the right of the world, Mr.Iceta, of course, to go with his head very high, because the only thing he did here, together with the rest of the constitutionalist parties, was to defend the Constitution, the rule of law and the rights and freedoms of all the citizens of Catalonia. In any case, those who may have some problem looking at the citizens of Catalonia were those who tried to violate our rights, to limit our freedoms and, ultimately, to liquidate our democratic order from this Parliament. But, in any case, I do not want to go into moral valuations now, which is what Mr Junqueras does and what Members of the separatist bench do all the time. I don't think that's what this is about. But, in any case, in the public media of Catalonia, the least we can expect is for the presenter or the presenter to tell the interviewees... I insist, questionable interviews because of the situation in which these people are found, but, in any case, the least we can expect is for him to be indicated the need to comply with the functions of the sentence. And I say to you: one of the functions of punishment in criminal law is precisely general prevention, prevention in the face of society, protection of society, in the face of persons who have committed crimes. And what I know is precisely what is meant to say to people, to citizens – and the public media have that responsibility – that delinquency is not only not acceptable, but, of course, not worthy of praise, as it seems to be in the public media of the Generalitat. Thank you, Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.39.0	Thank you. To defend the papers presented has now the word the deputy David Pérez, of the PSC Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.40.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, we're already moving forward, we'll vote in favour of all the points in the vote, and we appreciate the new one from Congressman Nacho Martín Blanco. Why? Above all, because there is a three-point package, which sets out the points that defend Catalonia's diversity and plurality, in the use of all languages as well as the usual ones in the communication media, the points on information objectivity, rigour and political neutrality, and the points that fail the Councillor of Culture and the President of the ACC. And I'll give you three examples. First, when the Culture Advisor complains that TV3 has a massive castella and also relates it to the payments you make from Culture to the same corporation, because a program made for Televisión Espanyola, in català and castella, is seen in català and castella throughout Spain and throughout the world, and it is a complaint that Catalonia is also seen as such and that Catalonia is only seen in català..., this is not our model, and this is not the model of linguistic normalization that we have defended since the minute 1. Clearly, TV3 can be made a documentary in català and castella, respecting the languages that its actors have put on the table. How can the councilwoman say that she has to go to català and that this should translate everything into català? It can't be done, it's not normal. And you didn't go out on the horn to tell the councilwoman that this isn't like that. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The touch of attention – I know, she will advise – should have taken her away – should have taken her away – and the touch of attention should have given this Parliament, in order to normalize, to normalize what is used in Catalonia as much of the Catalan as of the castle. Another example: the theme of using Covid's background to pay for the advertising download on TV3. I told the committee, I find it unfair, I find it indignant and I find it shameful. Why? Why do we all have to pay for TV3 advertising? Could TV3 tighten his belt, like everybody else does? Do we have to take Covid's money to pay for the publicity download? It's not normal. Look, it's not normal for Mr. Puigdemont to have a video with the TV3 logo that TV3 gave it to him, or TV3 didn't get it for which it was, or TV3 didn't know how to keep it well, or TV3 didn't know when he recorded it; but it's not normal for this to happen, that I first opened it with Mr. Puigdemont and then the same TV3. There's a really partisan use menu of the institution. And lastly, when you do a corporate structure in charge, to say it in some way, intermediate, of political compensation of the members of government, and when one of these things and a professional does fail, you say: "Look, I'm getting lost, because I didn't even hear 'I don't know which director..., well, so this whole thing is wrong, because it's wrong. And what there is is a desori; it is that the president, over, wants to take this director out, and over I can't do it. That they don't see that this is all a bit of a mess? You should put up a little order. And I think this young man is exactly going on this line. We thank the City Group for the fact that it has incorporated our papers, the Councillor's reprobation for the acts of corporate attention, but also for his management at the head of the Councillor's office, and the compromise we have finally made with the rest of the political forces. This is the path, looking to find points of finding between all political forces. I'm sure today we won't be going out in a hundred, but I insist, I thank you for all of it, for building it, and look at that we still have a lot of things to do together on this TV3 issue. Thank you very much, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. Also to defend the papers has now the word the deputy Daniel Serrano, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.42.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, Members, Members, unfortunately, the public media in Catalonia are the subject of repeated debate in Parliament in the various bodies, and usually almost never for anything positive. But the most surprising thing is that this time it has been the subject of debate and controversy, something that in a democratic society really should not have been news. I refer, of course, to the Drama series, in which the development of the plot of the characters, therefore, is carried out in Catalan and Spanish in an indistinct way, reflecting the bilingual reality of Catalonia, in addition to the spider in the Vall d'Aran. That's a hell of a note! It seems that some have just learned by watching the series that in Catalonia we are bilingual, right? , and it seems that that reality to some – or some, in this case – did not like it. Among them, the Councillor of Culture, who, with her words attacking the bilingual reality of Catalonia, proves that she is indeed a real drama as a Councillor of Culture. Because, if for a series within the ocean of monolinguism that are the Catalan public media the councilwoman is outraged, it is that we have a serious problem, and it is her sectarian and intransigent vision regarding the linguistic reality of Catalonia, and this mere fact the inability as a councilwoman of Culture. That is why we share and support the motion, by condemning the attempt to introduce the Councillor of Culture into a public environment as if it were her own, by supporting the motion to condemn the lack of neutrality of the Catalan public media, by also supporting the motion to denounce the lack of respect for political pluralism and by demonstrating artificial monolingualism in these media, which does not reflect the bilingual reality of Catalans, and by supporting the motion also because it condemns the action of the President of the ACC, who acts more as a political agent than as a president of an independent body, even to the point of depriving one of the members of the council of rights. That is why we have tabled a motion negotiated with Citizens and the Socialist Party, because we believe it is important that, in addition to condemning it, the president of the ACC should be blamed for these serious facts which have even earned him the judicial reproach. In short, therefore, our support for the motion, because it perfectly describes and denounces a way of proceeding and of making the Catalan public media that in a democratic and plural society like ours are not admissible. Thank you very much, Vice-President, Members, Members and Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix its position has the first word, the deputy Marta Ribas, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.44.0	Good morning. Today, in this case of Ciutadans, two issues are basically raised: the demand for pluralism and political neutrality in public communication media, and the linguistic debate that has arisen from the controversy generated by the statements of the Councillor of Culture, saying that there is a mass of castles on TV3 and that it makes them a touch of attention. To us, like Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it seems to us really a barbarity that the council is shocked by the sporadic appearance of castle to TV3, framed more in a series that transmits the naturality of the indistinct use of català and castle in everyday life in our country, or still, the reality of our country, and it seems especially reprehensible to us that the council considers that it can or must pay attention to the direction of public television for this or any subject. Therefore, we will approve the reprobation points inclusive of the motion, as well as respect for reprobable attitudes on the part of the president of the ACC. But we will not approve the rest of the motion, and I want you to listen carefully to the motions, because we have explained them on numerous occasions and they are of radically opposed position, of starting point with which we focus the themes respect Ciutadans. We cannot approve that from this polemic Ciutadans intends to change to what has been the country's consensus respects the role of the official languages of Catalonia to public television. Obviously, the castle is also an official language in Catalonia, but the audiovisual landscape is of an important minority of Catalans, and one of the functions of the Catalan public media – not invented for us, but through its March mandate, approved for this Parliament – is the promotion of Catalan language and culture and the Orange. It is said that català, in this marc agreement, is the language of Catalonia's public audiovisual media, which must normally and preferably be used and become vertebrate vehicles of the català communication space. It is clear from Article 6 that if both the Catalan and the castle are official languages and the citizenry has the right to use any of the two, as far as public administration and public communication means of Catalonia are concerned, the language of normal and preferred use is Catalan; also the language of vehicle and learning in teaching. That's what our Statute of Catalonia says. Therefore, no, they are not right when you say at point 3 that "the rights of all the citizens of Catalonia are only fully respected if the Spanish language is not excluded, such as, such as... and is used in the autonomous media, or when at point 7 they say that "you should normally, habitually and equally use Catalan, Spanish and Arabic languages. No, that's not what they say, neither the Marc mandate, nor the Marc accord, nor the Statute of Catalonia. No equality or vehicle language. Therefore, we must vote "not at these points, for an absolute respect to which our Statute of Catalonia says. You try to change the Mark Agreement and the Status from a young man. And, miri, the Statute of Catalonia takes the status of organic law, endorsed by the Constitution. You, self-identifying constitutionalists, or you of the PSC, should not be defending something contrary to what the Statute of Catalonia says. On the subject of pluralism, on the band that... well, in this motion they reiterate the usual claim of pluralism and neutrality of public media; in this point we will abstain. They know that we also claim and propose measures to improve the Catalan media in this aspect, but this also differs absolutely in the base, in the forms, often, not today, but in the background especially, from how you plant it. Because, as much as this time they have raised, they have written the points with formal correction, what is behind is Ciutadan's usual intention to weaken the Catalan public communication media, starting from questioning the professional work of the professionals of these media. You usually say it, say it, and write it: what they want is to lock them up, or cut them down, weaken them. We want to improve them to strengthen them. Because we believe that public means of communication based on truth, plurality, but well funded, and thus independent of the political power of every moment are a basic tool to strengthen democracy and guarantee the right to information, which is a right of citizenship that is also collected in our Statute of Catalonia. Therefore, precisely to defend the Statute of Catalonia, the self-government of Catalonia and the one deriving from the Constitution, if you want to hear it this way, you cannot be voting in favor of the plantation of Ciutadans respect the themes of pluralism or respect the paper that the castle has to hold in the media of Catalan public communication.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.46.0	Good morning. We already have it here, the Ple's motion about the Catalan public media, the motion of Ciutadans. Beyond his distinctly ideological perceptions, from many of those before me, let's see what the audiovisual panorama is in Catalonia. 85_percent of the audiovisual in Catalonia is in the castle. If any language is minority, it's Catalan. The 1_percent of the cinema in Catalonia is in Catalan language – the 1_per_cent. And when I heard about the issue of social use of TV3 language, especially for the PSC and the commons, for a moment I thought that subtitling it to collect Ciutadan's votes in the proper elections would go a long way..., it would have a lot of competence. TV3's mission for the minority language situation of the català – this is the fundamental question of the debate we have on the table – it is precisely the diffusion and promotion of the català. TV3 is not, in linguistic terms, a vision of society, but rather that, as in public, it is necessary to guarantee a normalized presence of català in a communication space where català is minority: 85_percent of the audiovisual is in castle and 1_percent of the cinema is only in català. All televisions, whether public or private, complete a public service in the measure that exploits a frequency of a radio-electric space that is state-owned. Therefore, and on the basis of respect for linguistic diversity, what would be hot is to claim to the State that all public and private operators also emit in catalá. In fact, this has already been claimed on hundreds of occasions, also on the part of the rest of the nations of the State that have their own language, and the governments of the State, of the color that follows, have always made no omissions. A more non-only exhibition of no one respects linguistic diversity, but above all a monolingual model of the Spanish State. And one more exhibition today is that the Catalan communication space continues to thrash; for this reason we ask, once again, full reciprocity of all communication media in Catalan language together with the Catalan Countries. I'm done. The European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, signed and ratified by the Spanish State, provides for the right of European citizenship to cover broadcasts of radio and public television throughout the territory, up to and including those broadcast in different states. We have other priorities, and I end up quoting journalist Mònica Terribas [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , to which... – I am finished, President, if I may one_seconds – we are very sorry that we cannot count on it for the season coming to Catalonia Radio. Mònica Terribas said, about the public media: "Something grinyola. The Grinyolen gears.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.47.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.48.0	Certainly, deputies of Ciutadans, something grinyola, but it is not the questions to which you insistently...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.49.0	Ahabi, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.50.0	...point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.51.0	Thank you. Next is the return of Congresswoman Raquel Sans, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.52.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, in the first place I would like to begin expressing all the esteem and support to President Forcadell and to denounce that the decision of the Supreme to revoke the permission of 100.2 has absolutely nothing to do with justice and that it is revenge. Also express support to all members of Parliament's Bureau and to all reprisals. [[Greetings.]] And today we have one more young man, and I don't know how many are going on, to shoot the country's public media again, and more to sweep the language. Citizens take advantage of any opportunity, any opportunity, to place in the center of the debate what really interests them. And it's obvious that language politics is one of his forts. In this young man take advantage of the thread of the debate that generated, above all in the networks, the release of the Drama series. Before we enter into the matter of the young lady, I tell them that we will vote against all points, because we do not want to enter into the mindset that they try to impose on us, a previa: the Drama series I loved, for the theme, for the scripts, for the sexuality, for the interpretative quality of the actors and the actors..., the Elisabeth Casanovas is very good. What I didn't like so much was to have her go find Playz, that's to say, on the digital platform of Spanish Television and not to have found her in the digital plataforms of the media of the corporation. We think that these plataforms must be a priority for those responsible for public media. This is where there is the youth and children's public and, therefore, where there is the future of the media. But entering the subject already, and above all in the linguistic debate that today we are once again asked, in the first place to point out the danger of talking about the need for public media to be a reflection of the languages that are spoken in the country. Because it turns out that this need is only required in those few spaces where catalá is priority language: at school, at public media, at institutions, as in this Parliament. I did not find any reason for Ciutadans, head, demanding more audiovisual production in Catalan, or any other where defending the linguistic rights of Catalan people speaking to justice or asking that Congress be able to intervene in any of the official languages of the State, in order to reflect the plurality and reality of the country. In an immigration country like Catalonia, and with so little strength to promote linguistic integration as we are – we don't have the tools of a state – it is urgent to break with the mental mark that Ciutadans has wanted to impose on us and return to the idea that if the català doesn't get its own, practical and symbolic functions it will hardly have a future. And one of these specific functions is precisely that in the public media of our country the Catalan language is spoken in a very majority manner. And some data to reinforce the idea that it is necessary to protect the català and that, therefore, if they want to, they reduce positive discrimination measures for a language that departs in a very clear position of disadvantage. Do you know how many people in their thirties had the català as their initial language? The 99,8_per_cent of the population. Do they currently know what the percentage is, despite the fact that the name of absolute speakers has increased a little? Currently, the Catalan language is the initial language for only 37.9_per_cent of the population. I suppose you don't have to mess them up. To see that languages are self-regulating in the language market and to ignore the existence of hierarchies by now implies that those who are at a disadvantage are very difficult to defend themselves, and more so when they try to do so from positions favorable to dominant languages, as is their case. It's about ridicule and neglecting who does it, and they go through radical, ethnic, even to be less cosmopolitan or less traveled. But we really ask them: the castle, which is a language spoken by millions of people across the world, which is a language spoken by many Catalans, which has a network of very important communication media – in fact, four_of_each_five people who see conventional television in Catalonia see it in castle – when at the new digital platforms Netflix, Movistar, Amazon Prime, Disney, HBO the tria that has to make the Catalan audience independently of which the initial language is between the castle and the original version, of truth that we want to make believe that even more reinforce the presence of the castle in public media, especially on TV3, how is the only chain that broadcasts in Catalan? Really? Do they really want us to believe that what's at risk is the castle? Obviously, we will vote no, and we are not willing to continue entering this mental mark that they try to impose on us. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the return of Deputy Josep Riera, of the Parliamentary Group Together for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.54.0	Thank you, President. All the support, first, to President Forcadell, to the previous Bureau and Laura Borràs, this week. "The Catalan language is not good for salvation, nor for political salvation, nor for social salvation, nor for philological salvation. For political salutation, I refer to the state mark of reference: when the Constitution was agreed it was committed the great weakness of accepting the legal inequality of the languages of the State. Social salvation: thirty years ago – now forty – « let us say that there is no linguistic conflict here. And we know that this is another sarcasm that only serves to silence the half of the country that has inherited and wants to preserve the language of the country. And there has been a slogan here that we offer the castle. How easy it is to create slogans! ; that it is easy to cast sarcasm against those who cannot defend themselves because they do not have the all-powerful mechanisms of laws, of the army, of the great means of intoxication. The philosophical evil salvation of the català is also easy to perceive. I refer to the alarming degradation of all its structures, phonetics, syntactics, phrasology, lexics; to the fact that it is a language of laughter – or of laughter! – a language that yes but no, vaja; a subordinate language. What I read so far here are not my words, even though I fully subscribe to them, obviously; they are Joan Solà's words in this rostrum a July 11 years ago. Completely valid words, sad, from the eminent philosopher, to the next one. Get them back, I recommend them. They help me not to go down to the fang of his intervention and to try to discuss the questions of background: the language and the model of public media. Because the situation was this forty years ago and it is still: it created TV3, to create the conditions that made the catalá a useful and necessary language, because only these survive. And that's why the counselor they want to reprimand today warned that she sees the castle on TV3, because it's obvious – and you already did well – and because if she, who has the skills in language politics, can't get old because TV3 completes the law and her mission, they'll tell me who will do it. Because the law does not say reflect the linguistic reality but the vehicle language is the català, and spread and promote the català and the aranès. And because the mission is not an autonomous television, it is a national television that articulates a communication space in Catalan. And that you all have votes consciously knowing that. And for what he does to pluralities and neutrality, that everyone also votes consciously. It is proposed to reprimand the president of the ACC and to pass as a victim a counselor, Mr. Daniel Sirera, who has been more dedicated to making political commentator partyist to Twitter than to his work at the ACC. Let us remember that the issue was that the morning of Catalunya Radio had informed on September 22, 2017 of the movements of the Civil Guard and the National Police to prevent the referendum of the U d'Octubre and that the Plenary of the Council of the ACC asked Sirera to refrain from participating in the debate and vote, because its position clearly compromised its impartiality, as other advisers did, precisely, voluntarily, for the same reason. That every vote with conscience, then. While they continue to repeat that public media are the correct transmission of independence; for us they are the correct transmission of the political and social reality of this country which has an independent majority. That's why I've told them so many times that it's not that I don't like TV3, what they don't like is the reality of this country. Some of us will continue to defend that this country remains normal, with a normalized language, as did those Spanish-speaking couples of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, who, at the beginning of the eighties, promoted and were the pilot proof of immersion in schools, because they see the català as a tool of integration, cohesion and social equity. And I can't finish it any better than Joan Solà's words: "The language of the country and of so many people, an ancient language that has translated all the best universal literature and has contributed significantly to the expansion of this literature, can't even feel a minute more a degraded language, politically subordinated and tirelessly and of a thousand ways attacked by the media powers. This language can't even feel a minute less than anything else. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the last place, the speaker, Ignacio Martín, has the word to pronounce on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.56.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of separatist parties, the movement is shown to be walking. I ask myself: "How many interventions have you made since this Parliament came to life in the majority language of the citizens of Catalonia? How many interventions have been made in the castle? And one of the deputies said to me: "Zero. Exactly. What do we do, the citizens' deputies? We intervene in the two languages of the citizens of Catalonia, because we respect the linguistic plurality of Catalonia, unlike you. You're missing the linguistic pluralism of Catalonia. They want a Catalan monolingual in Catalan. And we want to respect what is the intrinsic nature of Catalan society, which is a functionally bilingual society. With more languages? Yeah. Also with the orange tree? Also. But the Catalan and the castle are the majority languages of the citizens of Catalonia. You, I insist, want a monolingual Catalonia, and we want a Catalonia that is respectful of its own internal plurality. Certainly, the debate of the language does not introduce it to us, in these weeks, introduce it to you; the introduction of Mrs Vilallonga says that, for her, the public television of Catalans is spoken over castle. Curious that the public television of the citizens of Catalonia, who have as a majority language the castle, has been spoken much this language. It seems to me an impressive misconception. But it is his nationalist, effectively ethnolinguistic, vision of Catalan reality. Mrs. Ribas, thank you for your position on two of the young lady's points, but we do have some things to say. The Statute of Autonomy is a rule that deserves all the respect, like the Constitution, and, above all, in a constitutional democratic state that deserves a fundamental respect, because it is the one that guarantees the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia and of all Spain, that is what the Constitutional Court says. And the Constitutional Court, on the preferred use of one of the languages of the Catalans, says that there can be no preference for the two languages, either of the Catalans or of the castle; all two must be of normal use in the field of communication, in the public sphere, in the field of administration, and of which they can be expelled as in the vehicle language. It's normal, it's the common sense; the Catalans, the citizens of Catalonia, we speak Catalan and castle in a nutshell, and, moreover, alternatively. You claim to be a monolingual Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.57.0	Well, this young man's debate is over, so let them know that, like the rest of the motions, he will vote at the end of the plenary session, with the rest of the points dealt with. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the effects, reptes and digital opportunities of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[302-00225/12]] We now turn to the twenty-three of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the inquiry to the Government on the effects, the reptes and the digital opportunities pull out of the pandemic of the Covid-19, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose the young man, has the word deputy Javier Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.58.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, good morning to you all. The other day I finished the intervention, this is a continuation, talking about the lesson Batty gave us, a replicator of the Tyrell Corporation, a machine that, at a difficult time, what he did was being more human than ever and no one, right? The coronavirus plague does not understand languages, races or borders; we are all suffering equally. I also think it's a life lesson that we all have to listen to and learn preferably. Catalonia has a problem of..., Catalonia, which is what concerns us, has a serious problem of vertebration of the territory. That is why this proposal that I have brought to this Parliament on other occasions, but, well, I don't know, is that with this Covid we have met at the door, at the edge of a desert, and if anything I always think about when you're on the edge of the desert, it's that we have to work to find an oasis, right? , that there is no harm that does not come, that says the saying, and that we must try, from this misfortune, to draw a modest benefit for problems that we already had, structurally, from before. The stress test of telework I believe, modestly, that we have passed it in a way rather appañaica, isn't it? I mean, I think we've overcome it and that it's come – I said the other day – to stay; that this will result in a new working class, which will be the digital nomads, by labeling them somehow, right? , people who will work at one site or another depending on whether they have the passive support to be able to perform the work. We have to change, we have to take advantage to change our centuries-old mindset from being at work to being at work. In fact, we are the country of Europe that works the most hours and the least productive. We have to take advantage of all these things to try to turn the socks around and be more productive, that people can have more hours, that people can have better quality of life and, finally, that all these calamities that have touched us live..., that I will not tire of repeating what, there are people who lose their lives, there are people who will lose their health for life because of the sequels and we are all going to lose the economy. So it's time to be very serious, to be very pro-active and to leave us with things that I think at this time don't come to the story, as identities in plan The English Court, to plant by identity; in matters of roots..., roots we're going to leave them for lettuces; people have feet and we have to move us, we have to walk and cross this desert. We present this motion to you. I have put thirty points, I could have put three hundred_thirty and developed them thoroughly, but parliamentary times are what they are. The only thing that wants to demonstrate this motion is the will of our group, the constructive intention of us to move forward and our support for everything that is positive and can be beneficial, in this particular case; I speak of selfishly for the rural world, which is the sector where I come from and where I will soon return. In cryptography there is a name called ‘trust entities'. I do not hide from saying that we have little confidence in this government, more concerned with the soups of electoral letters and with topics that I believe do not come at this time to the story of the drama, of the problem we are experiencing. There is a novel by Isaac Asimov, I, robot, that there is a moment that there are so many robots that people, humans we start to be afraid of the robots themselves. And then they're done with programming, they make some robotics laws, and they're done with programming. The first law of robotics is that a robot will never harm a human being, nor by inaction will it allow him to suffer harm. Machines don't think, machines process, but there comes a time when robots themselves regard us as a danger to ourselves, and what they do is they confine us at home, right? As long as that dystopia does not arrive and we end up confined, from Citizens to advance them we will continue to work digitally with machines, because it is people who worry us. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the first word the deputy David Cid, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.60.0	Thank you, President. It shows a young man, I would say, very extensive, divided into three blocks. I'll take stock of some of the points that have come to the House. There is a first block of measures to promote transparency and optimisation of public administration. We here, basically, with the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Can..., there are some aspects of how the young lady who we have some doubts, eh? In the first place, the need for a labour audit through the contracting of an external and independent entity. Well, I think the General Administration itself must have the capacity to define, and in any case also to redefine and optimize the production processes of the same Administration, and I don't think that... we don't understand..., and we'll abstain at this point, because we don't understand what to do through an external and independent entity, do we? A little similar happens to us with the third point, doesn't it? , the need to establish work protocols that increase productivity. I think this is good, or so I think it's very important that public administration increases productivity, but it's also able to guarantee workers' and workers' rights, isn't it? Also from this point of view, from our parliamentary group we have set up a task, which we are grateful that it has presented itself..., which was about the need to take advantage of an opportunity but which also serves us, as I said, to preserve labour rights. And so in this sense I think it's worth it, so I urge the Government of the Generality to regulate teletreball in the public administration; steps are being taken, but I think it should be done in a general way, taking into account, obviously, the dialogue with workers' representatives and workers, and above all ensuring what the right really is, right? , to teletreball; therefore, to ensure digital disconnection and also the working conditions appropriate to the conjunction of the workers of the Public Administration, that I believe that mostly, therefore, a few minutes after passing, beyond the coronavirus, also to teletreball, as it was driving itself. I think there's already been three agreements, but now we should also try to work, worth the redundancy, because that was widespread, right? There is a second block, which is pulse measurements in digital policies in the rural world. I think it is also worth highlighting here, in this case, and in the negotiation of assumptions I think we coincided, which was, I would say, the joint objective, I would say, of developing the public optical fiber network. There was a bet..., or there is a very important bet on the assumptions, practically 28.5_million euros, to deploy the network in this public case of optical fiber. I think that here too we have presented a thought that has not finally been accepted, that it is... we have a problem like at least, or so..., of the good work or project, I would say, certain that is being done in this case of extending this fiber or this web of optical fiber at the public level, we have difficulties because..., in which is said the last kilometer, right? They didn't come out any different, I'd say, study, even news in the media. That here I think we have to work together with private operators so that it actually..., or so, the effort that the Generality is making from the point of view of the Public Administration actually comes to the conjunction of municipalities or to many municipalities that have difficulties for, right? , access the network, and, obviously, also do it with one, say..., do it basically ensuring that you can have access to the joint in this case of the population in municipalities that have a very complicated coverage or access, right? Above all, I think it's worth it because I have the feeling that this is really an opportunity for territorial rebalancing and that it's really an opportunity for the rural world, which we talked about before, also teletreball and distance work, and that's very important, that they're connected to the network, and obviously also to the 5G deployment, right? And, finally, a point that we also want to give-it a lot of importance, in the territorial rebalancing, that I think is also to have a vision, say, of the sentient country, that it has to see also with one of the considerations that is presented about the necessity that the National Pact of Industry, and therefore also the stake in this case for the creation of quality occupation, must be raised from the territory. That is to say, there have also been many areas of Catalonia that have lost industry, for example, in this case Lands of the Hebrews, which has lost, say, right? , important places of work, especially in this case also the Ebre Lands industry, which has been affected by many crises, by tourist crises, obviously also by production crisis, and, ultimately, also now by the coronavirus, right? Therefore, I believe that, in this quest for betting, too, in this sense, for the dynamism of the rural world, it does not fall into certain usual topics, but also, does it not? , there are different territories of Catalonia that have to make a bet to continue preserving their industry, and, in any case, also to bet for this land industry of the territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. Also to defend the papers, has the word now the deputy Francesc Viaplana, of the Parliamentary Group Republicà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.62.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... Llibertat Carme Forcadell. Against revenge, justice for everyone. (Applause.) First of all, I want to thank Congressman Rivas for his willingness to agree, and that shows me with all the ideas and transactions that have been accepted. The motion we are debating is extensive, and with the time I have, I will not be able to get into the detail of the thirty points; so I will refer to the three blocks in which the motion is structured. Before, however, allow me to reflect. Obviously, the Covid-19 pandemic has had some effects and setbacks that until now, in modern times, we have not experienced. Now, so you think there are opportunities too, especially in the rural world, that need to be taken advantage of. However, it is important to be aware that opportunities for suns are not materialized. To achieve this, it is essential to be resolute, prioritise actions and, in many cases, speed up the planned deadlines. For what he does to the first block of the motion, obviously we can also find points of agreement to promote transparency and to boost tools of optimization of the Public Administration, but with efficiency and realism, they understand that the Government of the Generality, obviously, already has processes in progress to take advantage of all the digital potential. What we can't do right now is start from scratch with external audits and burdensome processes in this post-pandemic moment, as some of the first points of the motion, of which we will vote against. We can push the change from the inside, in a cross-sectional way, detecting needy and strong competitions, but we cannot claim ex novo processes, and still less from outside the Administration. In the band of this, we have sometimes felt with his usual tone, accompanying his strategy of lamination of our country's self-government, as they intended to attack agencies and cable bodies for the future of our Administration, especially for the digital future. This time they only ask for maximum transparency: the CTTI, the Catcert, the Cybersecurity Agency... Work parenthesis: maybe now ask for its elimination, after knowing what we learned last week about the Pegasus case, would make them a little more ashamed of the usual – tanco parenthesis. Maximum transparency to this and other organisms. All right, transparency, everything, always, maximum. There are points in the motion where, obviously, we can hear without problems: to advance with the electronic invoice, to collaborate between administrations to optimize information standards and procedures, to continue to be aware of health measures in the fight against Covid-19, maximum information and help for local trade, campaigns for digitisation and for the better of teletreball to enterprises, and, of course, a need for regulation of this new working reality to guarantee workers' and workers' rights. In all this, obviously, we'll settle down... they'll find us in favor. For what it does in the second block, from impulse measures to digital policies in the rural world, obviously, they have our support so that it is better the coverage and the qualities of connection, fish essential many times to pull forward business projects and, finally, as we have been able to prove, because an educational fracture is not produced. The process of installing the 5G areas is beginning and, of course, the rural world will not be able to and will not be excluded. I am not able to extend it, but I should like to welcome the National Pact for Industry, where one of the objectives is to facilitate the adaptation of Catalan companies with the emergence of the new technologies, which go beyond the traditional concept of ICTs. Also worth mentioning is the Proacço 4.0 inn, which includes various services and helps to dispose of the peppers for the duration of their technological transformation. To develop a public-private strategy for the agri-food sector and all its agents, and most importantly: this strategy must be useful. It may focus and align instruments with the sector's specific needs. Finally, the third block, of cross-cutting policies in the rural world, is about many themes: taxation, renewal of the car park, you serve the great people, reactivation of the commercial activity and of the crafts, equality of genera in the rural environment, simplification of administrative procedures, access to culture, extracurricular activities, system of salvation in the rural world, support for trade and restoration, etc. But as we're talking about cross-cutting policies, you said there could be three hundred, but I especially found one missing. Congressman Rivas, you and I are from the High Pyrenees and Aran, and I'm sure we think that in order to go to the care center, because the doctor can come to the village, because the products can get to the shop, because the secretary can get to the assembly, because we can take the rascal to the school, because we can get the customers from the restaurant, it's essential one thing. Do you know what it is? We need decent and secure access to our cores, and most of the joints don't have the resources to fit these municipal ownership accesses. This point I think is nuclear. They can already improve telecommunications, which if they can't get to the village, we can't connect to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of MP Imma Gallardo, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.64.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, I attach myself to the solidarity shows that have been held by the companies towards President Forcadell and Laura Borrás and the companies that are also in court this week. From the start, thank the group proposing the opportunity to debate the effects, the reptes and the digital opportunities pull out of the Covid-19 pandemic. She's a long, thirty-point young woman, where a lot of them talk about digital opportunities in the rural world. And, therefore, we share the background of the motion and, although there are some points that we do not share at all, most of us will vote in favour. Catalonia already brings a few years into the digital age, and this begins to give its fruits. I'd like to remember that. Although the telecommunications market is a liberalized market and the competence of optical fiber deployment is of the Spanish State, such as that it is not a basic service such as water or light, there is no obligation to deploy it. Here at our house it was the Government of the Generality that a few years ago began to bring the optical fiber to the different parts of its public buildings, such as the CAPs or the institutes of some peoples. But the real momentum has come with the current government, with the honourable councillor Puigneró at the head of the new Digital Policy Council, which has already marked as an objective that optical fiber first reaches all the capitals of the region and then all the towns that have more than fifty inhabitants. But not only that: all just the past few days, the European Commission's digital index placed Catalonia in the top 5 of Europe's most digital countries, with a high degree of connectivity, digital governance and talent. Also a few weeks ago we had some good news, as now that the three most well connected EU regions, Catalonia inclusive, had been selected for the deployment of the three 5G test corridors, or that Catalonia would be the port of arrival of the world's second optical fiber subsea cable or that the mobile will be Romanesque to Barcelona by the year 2024. That's all thanks to the good work done from the council. During the confinement, the entire population was fully aware that today having a good connectivity is almost a basic service. Therefore, it is necessary to continue working so that the deployment continues at the right pace. And this means, on one side, counting on the complicity of all the administrations – and here I am talking about the four parliaments, but also about the assemblies and the councils – so that optical fiber reaches any raccoon in our country, however long it is, on the other side, also counting on the complicity of all the parliamentary groups so that future assumptions continue to contemplate all this important reversal. Therefore, stop putting the wheels on this topic, so that we can continue this important reversal that is already being made. In fact, the most recent works that will allow the totality of the region's capitals to be connected have begun in the midst of the pandemic, considering them urgent and priority, but it is possible to have a good connection with fiber or with 5G to all the municipalities, habitats, even if there are few inhabitants, or to the allied masses. From the Juntas per Catalunya we defend that this is one of the most effective means against the abandonment of our peoples, not only to increase the opportunities to stay there to work, study, etc., with more guarantees and greater territorial equality, but also because it opens very attractive opportunities to us projects, both personal and labor, because we do not have to forget that there is a sector of entrepreneurs of the technological world that are in real expansion, that only need a good connection to work in a environment with an excellent quality of life, such as that which we offer from the regions of the rural world. I'm going to comment on some of the young lady's points. As I said earlier, we will vote mostly for them, because we believe that there are better things to do. We have not rejected some, some for opportunists, since we are still immersed in the health crisis and the social and economic crisis that sees us above all just as we begin to notice the effects; therefore, we do not believe that now is the best time to start doing job audits on public office or carry out cost analyses to optimize parties. It did seem necessary that this chamber should be held accountable. Another point proposes a bonus of the connection quota, when with the Generality's optical fiber deployment to the territory the local operators who provide services on the basis of our infrastructure do so with already adjusted prices. Nor do we share the point in establishing fiscal bonuses for the local people and the peppers that develop their activity in the rural world. You should know that the generality is being barred from the tax incentives to promote the competitiveness of the business fabric, even though it is in areas at risk of depopulation. Someday in this hemisphere we will have to accept the real debate about the need for positive discrimination in the most disadvantaged territories. However, I would like to end by thanking Mr Rivas for his acceptance of the items and transactions that we have reached out to. And, therefore, we will vote against points 1, 2, 3, 4, 13 and 19, and the rest will vote in favour. We will also vote in favour of the slogan presented by the group of commons. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia is already digital, but we must continue to work on all folds so that much more remains to be done. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.65.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to fix the position has the word, first place, the deputy Alicia Romero, of the PSC Group - Units for Advancing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.66.0	Thank you, President. Good day, counselor, deputies and deputies. I seem to say that Catalonia is digital when we have thousands of entrepreneurs who are still about to make a digital transformation is a cophoism a little exaggerated, huh? I think we should be a little more honest, huh? , with reality. Well, anyway, I'm grateful to the City Group that you've made this young man, and I want to make some comments about this. First, in the themes of transparency, huh? , which I think are very important to the Administration, because we constantly put transparency in our mouths, but then, when one is submerged, so, in the information, you see that it's not like that. I'm saying this because the CTTI's last memory is from the year 2013-2014, it's like..., a few years pending. The other day, that I was a little bit into this immersion, I saw, so, that this, that I couldn't do an analysis of the last few years, because it wasn't there, was it? We don't agree with this job audit either. First of all, why should this be done with social dialogue, with agreement with the unions, I don't know why outside... I mean, I think there's also... I suppose, obviously, there's an ideological element of Ciutadans, isn't there? We are for social concertation and social dialogue, and therefore this should be agreed with the unions. It also talks about technological products, which seems important to me. In fact, the CTTI, I think that one of its functions should be to stop disruptive technology, that is to say, to try to boost this type of technology that is sometimes very difficult to get out of the same company, and therefore to boost it through public procurement, which is a key issue that I believe the General has not just deployed or is not just deployed. And I think it's true that the way you can push a certain technology is to encourage it with buying, and I think that's one of the things we'd have to do most. In the security issues, which the young man was also talking about, man, I want to tell him that in this pandemic, during this pandemic – the counselor knows well – we have had many technological attacks, largely provoked by teletreball, but this means that we have some holes that need to be checked and worked. Therefore, this issue of cybersecurity is very important for people, also for businesses, who suffer a lot from these attacks, but also for the Generality, who have been the victim of these attacks. And then something more general about the rural world, which is where Congressman Rivas does the most, isn't it? It's true that the rural world is patenting a lot. The other day, I think it's been a lot worse already – this week so intense... –, you're a bit worse than Congressman Ordeig was asking a question about Lleida, isn't it? Rural areas are the ones that have been the most exposed in recent years, they are the ones that have been the most reduced in the last two years, precisely when, if you really want a policy of rebalancing the territory – I do not like this "rebalancing, but territorial rebalancing" – you should be clearly investing in this territory, because people do not leave, do you not? Now, it doesn't just work out, this, with a social asset or with a connection to the network, does it? I want to thank the councilman Puignero that he is advancing with the arrival of optical fiber to the capitals of the region; he said the other day that the calendar is advancing. I think it's very important that we move it forward, because precisely with this pandemic we have seen how important it is to be connected, and then the ability, too, of this connection: data, speed, etc. But not just with that. If in the territory just above this connection, but after we have bad physical infrastructure, we don't have rural schools, we don't have CAPs with all their security, so it's hard for people to get into rural territory, right? So, we have to keep all the services on the go, and I think at these times, so, that's not it. And I think it's true that this issue is very important, especially if we want people to live three or two hours in Barcelona with all the conditions, but "with all the connections, physical infrastructure, but also intelligent infrastructure. And I think we have to take this into account as the government, too, huh? And after a certain criticism I want to do – there are many things that are good for this young man, there are many, as you said, thirty points – but then I also wanted to say that I lack a little ambition for this young man, right? The feeling that Ciutadans, therefore, makes some motions that are fine, but they are very generic, "squeezes the government a little, right? Today we will approve many points, I suppose, of course, "promote, "promote" to develop, "favor, continue, it is very good, but I would like to see the assumption made. When we talk about prevention for the industry, how many million more? How many million more in the automotive sector? How many million more for the trade sector, for the craftsmanship? Clearly, so, in general, we can all agree. What I'd like is for us to be a little bit more ambitious and we'd propose a few things, huh? I always tell Ciutadans's company, because I think that if we don't finally get very good reasons, you approve of most of the points, but then they don't have any repercussions, because the government can tell him that he's already encouraging, that he's already pushing, that he's already continuing to do. So, coming in with this young man, but I think we need to be a little more brave to force and force the government to put resources where they don't put them, and in this case, in the rural world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of the deputy Nàtalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.68.0	Good morning again. We'll tell them that the CUP will abstain most of the time. We understand that it's a young man a little a cherry picking manual, where there are different questions, and especially the conception of digital opportunities pull out of the pandemic that they plant, we have a lot of doubts. Digital opportunities, of course, speedily, but there are also risks that need to be put on the table. There is a lack of occupational risk assessments that transfer responsibility to the workers for what they do to telematics work. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to assess from the Administration also who has been the consequences of teletreball and of the accelerated and traumatic situation that has brought us to the workers and workers of the Covid. About... And the consequences of an ultra-digitalization of life, because this ultra-digitalization of life, today, that's, it generates structural inequalities and digital brets, which also the movement speaks about and in some issues we agree with, especially for the point that makes reference to the rural world. We believe that, despite this, we believe that the rural world is once again appearing as a subsidiary of the urban world, don't we? That you want to move a world into rural areas, and that's what we think a little deeper. I will talk about two questions about the question of the renewal of the car park. We believe that there is a certain renewal, but what would be a real measure of impact would be the reduction of the dependence of the private vehicle on the people. This dependence generates great costs on the people who saw the rural world, who are above those who live in urban areas. Public transport is much larger still in the surrounding mountains, and therefore we believe that we need to bet on a model of public mobility, on a model of shared mobility creating intermodal nodes within the territory in order to balance and generate this kind of public transport. So also, and I'll take another one of the points, because we could talk extensively about this young man they've done, right? , but on the question of culture. We understand that the people have enough population to be socially dynamic, but that the cultural brettxa, in any case, is with the culture conceived as the object of consumption, which for lack of critical mass makes it not profitable in the people. Therefore, we believe that there is a powerful mass of popular culture in the towns, but you do not see the perspective they have on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally it is the turn of the deputy Esperança García, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.70.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. You see, addressing the different digital perspectives we have today as it is a policy obligation. One of the things that this young man doesn't say and that hasn't been done yet is digital intelligence, for example, the robotization of work, it's also a very important thing, the deployment of the 5G network, despite the passages that Mrs. Colau evidently generates, but that is also a necessary challenge for the evolution, the modernization of the productive industry. And that, therefore, allows us, and addressing these problems would enable us, therefore, to improve the quality of life and also to improve productivity and equal opportunities between people. The motion that is presented is a mix between territories and digital policies. The majority of us will support it, while at the same time clarifying, for example, that the design of public administration and public policies that apply from public administration correspond to the Execution and not to an audit firm, because if not, we would not need to have the Executive, we would already have the audit firms so as to fix who is the model of public administration we want and who are the priorities of performance. But, despite this, we believe that the rest of the points, especially in the area we believe that the Member knows enough, that it is the territory, are very positive and we will give him full recovery, given that this is the last part of July. We don't know if in September we won't come back full or not, if it launches, let's say, a repte, or at least a replanting over the table. And it's that we have a lot more reprehensible digital themes, which in the end, therefore, allows us, for example, if there is a new confinement to improve lectural programs at the educational level, which has been one of the great shortcomings during this pandemic, and which can be improved with a coordinated bet from the time of the council. And also a question that has been manifested during this crisis, and it is the lack, sometimes, of equal opportunities for the lack of digital literacy of the entire population. Not everyone is on equal terms, and therefore there are many people who are excluded from being able to participate and have equal opportunities for this lack of knowledge, and therefore we should force and bet more on training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In order to pronounce on the papers, Mr Javier Rivas has the word now. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.72.0	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you to all the'smenas, the tone and the consideration at the moment we live. A common factor of almost all, which audits are not necessary to do in the real world. You can't audit yourself, you always need a third. And I appreciate the criticisms I've received because they're the ones that make me grow, the ones that make me learn, the ones that make me not live in an endogamic world. Then an audit, I consider it has to be external, and not just in the accounting field; no, it does not go that way, but a process audit. The other day I taught the counselor a pdf that an administration – I will say sin, but not the sinner – made you sign three times with digital signature. They are processes..., that there is no bad intention, there is ignorance. Socrates said that evil was only ignorance. We have to be humble, we have to be critical and we have to make processes that make us better, that make us faster. The company Viaplana, de la Seu, d'Esquerra Republicana... Well, yes, I lack things, I would have done three hundred, four hundred, it is unmatched, it is only a declaration of intentions. And there is one that is indeed right, which is the issue of round access, maintenance of access to the villages, which you have made us a lot of ‘threats: of modification, of suppression; you could have done me the favor of having made an addition, too. Junts per Cat : well, the same thing: audits, tax bonuses... Tax bonuses, I don't know, we carried it in our electoral program in the last elections for the rural world of a 60_per_cent bonus. To want is power, there are wills and that does not remain like the Marshall plan, now we are going to live a stage of Keynesian ticking policies. But we will see the money pass, we will go to things that generate added value, that generate structures that remain forever in the territory and that generate jobs that, at the end of the day, is what will sew the territory, which will allow this issue not to be the day of the marmot, and we are talking about it all over again. Socialist compañeros. Yes, the memory of the CTTI, indeed, we lack; well, we lack so many things... We are a little criticized – and I thank you also – that lack of concreteness. Yes, it was not the intention, I believe that concreteness takes it more – and we demonstrate it every day – to the commissions, which are more the small letter. Here a little what we bring is a little the wills, which I think have become manifest what are those of everyone. And all that remains to be seen and manifested is what our responsibilities are and what we approve of here, what we are talking about here, what we say here, how it ends and to what extent it benefits the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. Like the rest of the motions, this will also be voted at the end of the plenary session with the rest of the items on the agenda. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into transparency, democratic control tools and the anti-corruption compromise]] [[302-00226/12]] We now turn to the twenty-four point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the inquiry to the Government on transparency, democratic control tools and the compromise against corruption, of the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose the young man, has the word deputy Ferran Civit. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.74.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies; well found. First of all, I have to start my intervention as I started the day, which is giving support to Carme Forcadell, Yeya Boya and all the Members of Parliament who today are declaring to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. Because that, if you were a democratic state, we wouldn't find ourselves sitting here as parliamentarians. And we go to the one who touches, because, despite the bad things, there are things that don't change at least for seconds. Certainly, what some say is that the country is fractured, that's right. That's it. The country is fractured between those who want a republic and those who want a monarchy. And that's it. Republic and monarchy. There are those who want a full democracy without any privileges, and some who want a democracy in myths with people with privileges. And the country is certainly fractured. A monarchy that we consider corrupt, of course, and this is the motto of today's proposal, but that we also believe that it violates the principles of neutrality that binds it to the Constitution, a Constitution that – to the best of my knowledge – I have printed here a few articles, before and after, that we consider that they are the ones who have been violating themselves since 2017 in a totally unpunished way. This dilluns, as you know, Mr.Philip VI came to my village, to the Strawberry of Francolí, and to Poblet. Political neutrality erupts it, it constantly violates it. He came to my territory, he came to the Espluga, therefore, I consider that if with this he already considers that he has visited all Catalonia, I would like to ask that the capital of Catalonia follow the Espluga de Francolí because, of course, if visiting the Espluga de Francolí is visiting Catalonia, we consider that I will also propose, so I ask, that the Government thus entomizes, that the new capital of the independent Catalonia follow the Espluga de Francolí. So, taking advantage of this, I'll explain the story of two of my friends: one of them is the Angeline and the other is the Toni. Both went to the monarch for this dilluns. Curiously, the Angelin, following Vox's cries, so he went to meet him with a Spanish flag. There you go! Strangely enough, the police, he let it pass. But Toni and hundreds more people couldn't make it. We're gonna have to go down. And these hundreds of people we stayed out without being able to greet the monarch. And, of course, theoretically, the principle of political neutrality, another time, is violated, because curiously the monarch has to be for everyone and people was seen expelled from his people, from his region, without right to free circulation. But, of course, if you were wearing Spanish flags, you were passing by. And so, curiously, casually – or not, I don't know, I don't know, because clearly, as there is a political neutrality of the monarchy – the interests of the monarchy and Vox's interests align, casually or not, but that's it. And thanks to this, a dozen people, with a plate closed, that Spanish televisions will already be in charge of proving it, will give support to the monarchy, showing all the support of Catalonia. Meanwhile, hundreds of people we were outside were not able to access Poblet's home. Curiously, that I pass every day before, I see it from the balcony of my house, and that day no, that day it is seen that it was not mine, neither from my veins, nor from my veins, it was from a visitor abroad. And, of course, that day some of them were able to pass, like my friend Angelín – for sure, who is the main animator of the Sports Union the Snuggle, he is also a great madridist, but, well, he is the main animator of the Sports Union the Snuckle – but, of course, they did not let the Toni pass or many others. And Al Toni ended up in custody. So, from here, all the support, Toni. Because you and a lot of people... who, in the face of these democratic protests, have always seen their rights violated. I reconfirmed it the other day: it's a police and judicial state. Well, a police monarchy, a monarchy that you more than support for re 'the one you have above all are police to protect you. So, there were more cops to protect him than people cheering on him. So, the monarchy doesn't have subjects that cheer it up, have cops and you'll work flatterers that only protect it. And it's clear: an institution based on privilege ends up being corrupt. If they're looking for privileges, they're looking for corruption. And this is what we come to ask with this young man: outside privileges and outside corruption. The experience of time – here we have spoken many times – goes this way: the rights of women, the LGBTI rights, the rights of animals, the rights of the natural environment... and, of course, also the Republic. I ask them... here, I know, but I ask you: be modern, be cool, be trending, be republicans, which is the door today. And if they vote no, I don't know if it's now, like August will come, maybe the Corinn has invited them to spend a few days on the floor that thanks Juan Carlos I and the 2_million euros he gave him..., invites them to spend a vacation there in Switzerland, I don't know. If it was that way, I hope you have a good holiday and I hope that now you're going to ask for this money to go to National Heritage. What I want to ask is that, please, don't let Juan Carlos fall, let the monarchy fall directly. The Spanish society deserves a republic and, obviously, the Catalan one too, a logically independent republic. Visit the Spanish Republic and visca the Catalan Republic, obviously independent. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, has the first word the deputy Eduard Pujol, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.76.0	Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President of Parliament, we have many problems, many, it is true, the Covid is not one, with all its derivatives. And we have a second problem in the forges of the State that is the monarchy. The Spanish monarchy is a problem for Catalonia and a big problem. The monarchy is old and obsolete and does not give for more, ending. And you have to be able to report it normally, because society, people, you already have. What I'm saying is pretty normal. What is still extraordinary is to defend it because it is. Years ago, he went out into this faristol and said: "Proud monarchy, because it is as crude as the sutge would have donated to doors and minutes of television. Today... not today. What's new is that there are still political parties that come to us like a divisive gift, like a galactic mermaid full of virtues. Today, since normality, since absolute normality, it is up to us to clarify what are and how many limits the duet Joan Carles I and Philip VI have missed. We know it's a sensitive subject, it's true. From this rostrum, it's been years since together for Catalonia we've told them that the king took off and a lot of you were looking at us—they were looking at us—as if we were ximples and not, we're not. "The king stripped them, we give them. Now we add: "He undressed and grossed. And this situation is so obvious that we ask, with the solemnity and the respect that we want, to the deputies of the 155 that also make the jump, that they dare, that they see with color; their voters on this subject, at the time of saying enough to the martingales of the royal house, have already clicked, and you know it. You have... you have the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the 155, to express yourself as a lot of people who trust you. Farien, you'll do democracy a favor. True, it is not easy – it is not easy – neither for us, that we want a state for Catalonia nor for you, that they defend their idea of Spain, respectable. But I admit that when we talk about the monarchy, we're facing a dinosaur. The Spanish monarchy is a dinosaur that resists, that seeks to survive. I've had this same feeling I feel about the last of you doing the mile. [[The timer laughs.]] It was '91, it was a lot, and it was still very strange '91. There was a world that no longer existed in the street. The capità, family of Pita da Veiga, the minister who folded when they legalized the Communist Party..., the capità em deia: « Pujol, the Catalans..., the Catalans do not know how to take cava, the cava is taken hot. So everything there was very strange. [[the timer riu]] It was strange, it was surreal. How strange it is now to listen to Philip VI when he wants us to believe that he doesn't know anything about a Joan Carles I, as if you didn't give him the crown. And we must bear in mind that the rebuking of the monarchy is a cross-section of ages, of ways of making, of thinking, of voting, of living... ; this goes for everyone. If we're not all, we're a lot. And if they don't, let's count: ballot boxes. The Spanish monarchy is perceived as a Lunyan and unserviceable institution that doesn't give for more. It's true... it's also true that in some societies the tradition and values that are represented have found a sense and a utility and are not in discussion – it's true; I think of Isabel II. But Zarzuela is obviously not Buckingham. We're in the 21st century, in the 21st century, and the princes don't have any bad blood. I'm sorry, for a lot of the 78th Constitution you've got there. [[The timer laughs.]] It's obvious not, that blood is red. And for that, and for many other things, it is impossible to defend the nature of this institution. But if she's more corrupt, she'll end up. We're at the end of the street. Then defending the monarchy is impossible in the square. And normal societies need to do normal things, for example, to vote and to respect the vote – for example – and that at the front of institutions there are decent, dignified and clean people and attitudes. The monarchy, yes, is the daughter of the Francoism, it is the heritage of the '" tied and well bound and nothing happens to say it. But it's that, plus, with the years, they've done it really big. The full range of services is treacherous and mocking; the corruption of the springs by the ears: 65_million to silence the lady Corinna, the elephants, the Mecca train, the more elephants, the more trains of Mecca, and the speech of the night of Nadal calling on the ethics and immaculate behaviors, which, the truth is that it is very big. And I can't insist on the famous speeches of '' to them, the night that Philip VI reread the basic principles of the Movement and posed the face of Philip V. The truth is, there's nothing more to say: it's time to lower the blind, calmly, but I'm done. Catalunya, in society, has already disconnected. Game over. We're done with the brachil. The king undressed and more gross. So, game over. Fem fire new: republic, independence and prosperity for Catalonia. Now it's time to clean up. For all these reasons we will support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, has the word in the first place the deputy Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.78.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, lords, lords deputies..., the Grup Parlamentari Republicà presents us a smokescreen in the form of an attack on our social and democratic state of law and our constitutional order. What better way to cover up their inability to manage a health crisis and its terrible consequences for health and the economy than a frontal attack on the foundations of our social and democratic rule of law? An attack camouflaged in the supposed defense of transparency, democratic control tools and commitment to corruption. You, experts in opacity, who are incapable of effectively managing their powers, intend to cover your incompetence with a smokescreen in the form of a motion which, by the way, should never have been admitted to the procedure in the terms in which it is formulated by the Bureau of this Parliament. But worse things we've seen. Behind the smoke there's nothing. Its ability to govern is clearly insufficient and I hope that a sufficient majority of Catalan citizens will perceive it, because what is most needed in Catalonia, in addition to effective and solvent measures against the pandemic and its consequences for health and the economy, is for you and your separatist partners to stop ruling. This shameful motion resounds hypocrisy on all four sides. You intend to give transparency lessons when you are the holders of the most opaque departments in your management. They speak of transparency while hiding the institutional reality of their task of government, using all the sources of power and propaganda to sell the supposed kindnesses of their « republic of dessert gelat, apart from the socio-political reality of our autonomous community and against the democratic order that legitimizes the very existence of this Parliament. Nothing new under the sun. Adalids of republican values are self-proclaimed while at the same time attacking the essence of those same values. You, as regards the defense of the values of freedom, equality and fraternity, or the militant practice of the ten republican principles that you cultivated in can pinyonaire, and which Montserrat Tura presented to us in his book. Republica pagesa: vindication of the Catalanisme rabassaire, leave much, much to be desired. I'm not going to make a thorough review of those ten principles, but you don't appreciate justice, before you give it away. You confuse dignity with the interference in maintaining a useless and barren challenge to democratic order, using for this purpose in a partisan way the power springs that manage your desire. You confuse the democratic principle of right intervention in public life with pulling the right. Searching for shortcuts where there are neither there nor there can be comes from afar. Since newborns, on April 14, 1931, their Carlist co-founder, Mr Macià, unilaterally proclaimed the Catalan Republic. Then he came to reason, with the participation of three ministers of the provisional government of the Republic, and was satisfied with becoming the first president of the Generalitat and with the elaboration of the first Statute of autonomy of Catalonia. Macià's successor, his other co-founder, Mr. Companys, also demonstrated his null commitment to Republican principles by taking advantage of a particularly convulsive stage throughout Spain to rise up against the Second Spanish Republic. In this case, with grave consequences for those who lost their lives in that sterile coup d'état of October 1934. Come on, you are experts in attacking the highest institutions of the State, always from the partisan and torticier use of the institutions the state of which you have control, in which you exercise power. We, however, proclaim the full force of our democratic order. We defend with dignity and full commitment the higher values it proclaims: freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism. This smokescreen that you are presenting to us today, that you are co-governing with one of the most corrupt political parties in Europe, that has been expelled from the European party that co-founded, from the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, the ALDE party, by corrupt and lying, does not cloud our eyes. Between its rightful republic and the parliamentary monarchy as a form of government of our social and democratic rule of law, we are very clear. I will tell you in seven words, which are not a sermon: visca Catalunya, live Spain, live the king. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.79.0	To fix his position, Mr Jordi Terrades, from the PSC Group and Forward Units, also has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.80.0	Mr President... Counselor, deputies and deputies, whether any city, whether it be king or not, has committed crimes, that justice investigates it; that it is jutgi, if it stands, and is condemned, if it does so. Certainly, like everyone else who commits a crime, regardless of what he or she has been or who his or her status has been, and even all his or her involvement in the country's recent history. That's what they correspond to, in a straight state. Now, to open a debate now on the constitutional pact review, we believe that it is inopportune and that it is intranscendant at these times. The investigation of the Emeritus King shows that democracy works. We're not talking at these times, or we're not talking at these moments about Joan Carles' contribution to the recovery of democratic freedoms after the exit of the dictatorship. Now we're analyzing personal behavior, and respecting the presumption of innocence of any citizen – also in this case – what we know... – and they're bringing in the fat of the ball and what's intoxicated, what may be intoxicated – what we know, I repeat, decipher, like the vast majority of the citizenry; how we learned, in his day, the family performance of President Pujol. But you have served this episode with all the pyrotechnics that have us used as a smokescreen, colors around here, specks over there to cover the inefficiency, the governance produced by the lack of planning, the erratic management of some of the decisions of your advisors and advisors in the management of the Covid-19. They came from pearls, the situation in which we find ourselves at these moments. They rushed to put aside restrictions on confinement; they have evidenced the lack of forecasting in the deployment of epidemiological surveillance devices, indispensable to avoid rebounds; now we are closing equipment, not now: unpredictability and lack of clarity. And we've got some sort of gatherings for the decision making that have had to be taken in some cases, but you, as always, are subscribed to the castles of fire, when you're better off, to see if that's how we're entertained. Which day passes, years start and see if the elections arrive. In the past, they cut a little the government of Catalonia, which we have quite broken. But the same pandemic has put us in front of the big debates, here and across the planet. Reptes col·lectius com: how we guarantee the strengthening of the health system; the updating of the economic system today, no longer in national clau, but also in global terms; the growing inequalities, also in Catalonia, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament; the crisis of climate change; the ecological transition and digital transformation. And you, Bourbons up, Bourbons down. They won't find us in this dialectic, they won't find us in the constitutional breakup. I repeat, from our point of view, democracy works, communication means inform, and judicial investigation is on the move. Out of here, but also in the conjunct of... in Spanish judicial institutions. And the responsibilities, or not, of the city Joan Carles de Borbó will be diluted in his moment in court, in his court, as will the ones of Pujol or that of Mrs. Laura Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.81.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can and has the word of Congresswoman Concepción Abellán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.82.0	Thank you, President. Members, deputies, councillor, the information about cases of corruption involving the Emeritus King is of enormous gravity. With each new information, the amount of defrauded money is increased. Ironies of fate, the knowledge of these facts has coincided with the news that a judge proposes to judge the Pujol family by criminal organization. It seems that the King and Pujol, the king and the viceroy, who always had a lot of affinity, also joined the practice of collecting commissions and understanding public service as a business. It is democratically unbearable for the highest institution of the State to be involved in plots of corruption. It is well known that the Emeritus king surrounded himself with corruption the most beast of Spain, with people like Villar Mir, Dante Canonica, Arturo Fasana, among others. Our parliamentary group in Congress has demanded the creation of a commission of inquiry without waiting for the Supreme Court or for a possible change in the Constitution, because we believe it is a democratic obligation. It is a shame that PSOE, Citizens, PP and Vox refuse to investigate the alleged corruption of the Emeritus King. Citizenship must have the information and know the whole truth. Therefore, the Emeritus King must be subject to parliamentary investigation. The Strasbourg court has already said, on different occasions, that the crown cannot be left out of scrutiny and public criticism. In a democratic society, it cannot be accepted that the interpretation of the inviolability and irresponsibility established in the Constitution is a privilege contrary to the principle of equal citizenship before the law and is projected even after abdication. It is imperative to put an end to this privilege. As Javier Pérez Royo says, from the moment we have to resort to inviolability, who resorts to it has become a presumption of innocence to a presumption of guilt; not legally, but politically, yes. We believe that the lack of transparency and the refusal to set up the commission of inquiry increase the questions. Did Philip VI know the father's behavior and participate in it? Was the money the father made, a hundred dollars a month, spent exclusively on him or on the family as a whole? Those of us who assume public responsibilities must make our heritage public, as an exercise of transparency and control. Why do we not know the heritage of Philip VI? What do you have to hide? It is intolerable that some, such as the PP, such as Vox or Citizens, defend impunity against corruption, do not scandalize them with reports that the Emeritus King has been able to receive 100_million_de_euros from an absolute, feminist monarchy and that violates human rights, such as Saudi Arabia, or that he has been able to devote himself to money laundering and tax fraud – they are accustomed to corruption. The monarchy is breaking records of disaffection, and even parliamentary monarchies today need public acceptance to survive. Historical legitimation is no longer a good night's sleep. And, speaking of history, it is necessary to recognize the king emeritus a great coherence: corruption has been a constant of the Bourbon dynasty, not to mention the Cleptomania of Franco, which restored the monarchy. Years ago they tried to silence the multiple criticisms and silenced suspicions about the dangerous friendships of the emeritus king, and let us remember the censorship of a cover of the magazine El Thursday or the allegations of insults to the crown. Society does not consent to corruption or admit impunity for immoral behaviour. In fact, abdication in 2014 is not understood without citizen indignation at the king's behavior. Beyond cases of corruption, the monarchy debate raises an issue that will sooner or later have to be addressed. Democracy is plebeian by definition and ill-housed with the privileges and hereditary character of the monarchy. Being demanding with ordinary people who fulfill their legal and fiscal obligations while protecting a king stained by corruption can only lead to weakening democracy. The monarchy today is an obstacle to building a decent and more democratic country. It is clear that this monarchy does not represent the whole of citizenship – you just have to see how the right and the extreme right defend it. But like the motion of censure against the PP, the challenge is not only to point out that the king goes naked but to propose an alternative, and that goes through a republican commitment, to build a plurinational, just and democratic Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.83.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the CUP Subgroup - Constituent Call. There's a word from Congresswoman Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.84.0	Well, deputies, deputies, good morning. Looks like someone's here to explain that this is a person's question, right? , to establish concretely the king, but the instruments, the structures already created from a structurally corrupt dictatorial regime – one of them, one of these structures, the monarchy – are the basis of a model of development inserted in the capitalist logic. And today we also see as corruption, which this young man is also talking about, is the system and is the daughter of the institutional design precisely agreed between the Francoist elites and the forces – let me be democratic. Corruption is a structural fact in our society; it's not a rotten apple in a cyst but it's the cyst itself. In fact, fighting corruption is impossible without questioning the state apparatus; fighting corruption is also questioning an anachronistic and outdated monarchy, and also questioning a constitution and a system that is a loose against the expression of popular will. And why can't they decide? Why don't you let us express whether this town wants or doesn't want king? This town doesn't have a king, he said it on thousands of occasions. And we also want to decide whether we want to form an independent republic with the aim of ending these heretical structures of the Franco regime, with the aim of ensuring that we can enjoy a society where we respect the social, civil and political rights, and, look, where the security forces of the State, including the Mosos d'Esquadra, are not an instrument of hatred against political dissent, against those who carry so long after so many years in which we have to negotiate, after forty years, in our name, that they have only meant waivers of civil, social and political rights from our people. So, visca Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of the deputy Daniel Serrano, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.86.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor... We will vote against this motion, obviously, because it is a motion that makes a narrative not only distorted of some concrete facts, but also twister, in which fallacies are mixed with false accusations with a double objective, on the one hand, to put in the picota the king of Spain, our head of state, and on the other, to try to exploit, three years later, still justify the handshake that the Government and the parliamentary groups that support it tried to give to the Constitution. And I'm sorry to tell you that you haven't learned anything. In fact, they still get their chests out of what they did, and they pander that they'll do it again, that's for sure, with a pinion mouth, just in case. Look, with the calm and serenity that makes it clear from a parliamentary subgroup of four Members, I say to you that if you try again the Constitution will respond again. This is the guarantee of democracy, which cannot and should not be subject to mere short-term parliamentary majority. It is easy to understand, because it happens in all democratic states of the world, have the form of republic or parliamentary monarchy, such as Spain, the United Kingdom or Denmark – the real one, not the southern one, with capital in Waterloo. Therefore, it would be good for you to make self-criticism one day and assume that what happened here on 6 and 7 September 2017 was a democratic shame; that what happened here on October Day was not a referendum of anything, but a mockery of democracy. And it would also be good if one day they had the courage to recognize publicly that here, in Spain, no one is persecuted for their ideas but for their facts if these are contrary to the legal order, as happens in all the democracies of the world. As long as you do not understand or assume this, I wish you a long journey of frustration and political nonsense. While we, even with a parliamentary subgroup of four Members, will continue to enjoy constitutional Spain as the best way to live together by guaranteeing the rights of all, including all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers has the new word the deputy Ferran Civit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.88.0	Well, thank you again. In this case, first of all, thank the papers presented for the Group of Junts for Catalonia. We accept all of them, and one of them, in this case, is the deal, that we ask that when the time of the vote is up, it be taken. And I recognize in front of the rest of the parliamentary groups that have actually attacked us: this is a smokescreen, a castle of fires, because, of course, if we don't do it here, as there are no major parties in the room, I don't know who will do it. And that's why we do this. Clearly, and I also ask myself: here, when it is said that this should not have been allowed to move..., of course, I don't know if this means that it is a touch of attention, that this table may be later..., as the previous parliamentary term has now been judged, this will also be precisely judged to have allowed this debate. If that's the case, all of our support for going ahead with this legal and political persecution that they will surely have. Deputy Alonso, since he has also mentioned this before, one very important thing has been neglected: "Long live the order and the law! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So, you're putting the whole sentence down with all the honest slogan. And I also liked, as you and the deputy of the PP, the term "torticero". I love this concept because my family – I've said it many times – goes to Spanish military in Madrid, and I love the concept of the Golden Age language, as my paternal language is. So, I'm giving them all the support to help bring down this crooked monarchy. And so much good we are here today in a situation in which people like Pablo Iglesias d'avui, but also the Pablo Iglesias of the 19th century have power, courage and the will to make it possible. Because today's Pablo Iglesias certainly does not have the power, but perhaps it does not have the power, and the Pablo Iglesias of the 19th century, so good..., if it had now held the power, they would, because in thirty years we have not seen a gesture in favor of the republic or much less in favor of federalism. Thank you very much and forward. Freedom, republic and social justice for everyone. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finished this point, reminding them once again that the vote will be taken at the end of the plenary session, together with the rest of the votes. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into general policy and country priorities]] [[302-00227/12]] We now turn to the twenty-fiveth item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the general policy and country priorities presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Creed Constituent. I, to expose her, has the word the deputy Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.90.0	Soc here– soc here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.91.0	Oh, I'm sorry. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp riu.]] I see she's already reached the Faristol before you call her. So, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.92.0	Good morning again, deputies, deputies, vice president. As they can prove, the motion presented today by the CUP - Constituent cry is a simple motion, an austere motion. She's a young man who even some of you can call her a little ambitious. And the reason that we are presenting today is deliberately simple and deliberately austere because what we want to put on the table from the UPC is what we consider to be evidence: that the fracture between the government, therefore, between the executive, and the parliament, therefore, the legislature, is enormous. You have lived, as I have, a legislature in which we have debated and approved points of motion, PRs... both to the plenary and to the committees; hundreds of them. Very interesting questions; questions, including questions, which have taken on a large, large majority; other than so many. But they have also lived and seen how we, like these motions, these motions for resolutions, these measures, these consensuses that have worked in their parliament, therefore, where the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia resides, have been systematically desidous for the Government of the Generality. A government of the Generality which, I insist, has repeatedly ignored the resolutions and motions of the different groups approved by Parliament, consolidating what it gave to the principle: a great fracture between the legislative organ and the executing organ, with the democratic shortcomings that this entails. And with this simple and austere young man what we want is to put on the table this question; what we think is evidence and evidence in everyone's eyes. And we ask ourselves: Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, what is the purpose of the Parliament of Catalonia? We also ask the members of the Bureau: what is the purpose of the Catalonian Parliament? In fact, a few days ago, I felt – this very week – the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Mr Roger Torrent, in an interview with Catalonia Radio where he was asked: "Mr Torrent has the repression of the State had consequences on parliamentary activity? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. "No, in no case, it was Mr. Torrent. And I thought, "We weren't in the same legislature, Mr. Torrent. This legislature, indeed, has been marked by what it was commenting on, as the Government of the Generality has rejected the proposals approved to the Parliament of Catalonia – not just those of the CUP, but of all the parliamentary groups – and, at the same time, has been marked by the interference of the Spanish State and its devices segregating the sovereignty of this Parliament. And it is not arbitrary that we present this motion on the week that the Bureau of the Eleventh Legislature has been judged. A_table, precisely – and members of parliamentary groups like Mireia Boya –, judged to allow you to talk about everything. And in this legislature we haven't been able to talk about everything. Look at the motion that the CUP presented, which we are debating now. The CUP has not even submitted a review. Why? Because the majority of the Bureau voted that we could not talk about the regulation annulled and suspended for the Constitutional Court. And he voted that we can't talk about self-government. And he's voted a lot of times that we can't talk about monarchy. And the Constitutional Court, the Supreme and all the returning courts have constantly conditioned the activity of this Parliament. And that's what we want to talk about through this young man. I'll talk to you on the next round, too. We do not only want to put on the table those questions that the UPC has managed to adopt in this Parliament – which we also, and for this reason we have accepted the message made by the parliamentary group of the commons – because we believe that it is justice, but... we also want to put on the table that the UPC - Creed We have tabled on the table... and, in this list of fifteen motions that we have made come to the first version of the motion that we are debating today, they will find what we consider to be a political program of the minimums; a political program of the minimums that has the priority of putting forward and forward, first and foremost, a country crossed by inequality, to a country that is crossed by injustices, as consistently. We have prioritized the defense of public services in the most energetic way we have been able to handle. And yet, those consensuses that, despite the differences, we have arrived are not complete. And we are talking about issues such as how this Parliament urged Mr Buch to suspend himself and work on a number of steps that had been clearly racist assaulted and seen throughout our country. And the Interior Department automatically says it doesn't want to do it. We are talking about proposals like, for example, a moratorium. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, Vice President – at the incineration and, therefore, a moratorium because I do not fire at the Incinerators of Cercs and June, in a climate-emergency context. And do you know what she's doing in Damia Calvet? The same one that Mr Buch does: constantly want to hear everything that this Parliament approves. That is why we are asking you, Members and Members, to give support to this simple and austere young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.93.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.94.0	Thank you very much. MPs, MPs, therefore, from our group what we want is to give thanks to the Subgroup of the CUP - Creed Constituent to present this motion that they have defined as simple and austere, because we would define it as common sense, democratic sense; it is to say, ask that the government give compliment to what the Parliament approves..., hear what it looks like to those truths of Perogrullo, right? But, actually, it's not what's going on and there's been a few examples. In fact, we are convinced that it must be so much common sense and so much democratic sense that we give in fact that the government groups voted for it, that the government approves this, with all the contradiction that it supposes, that after the government ignores what their groups vote for. We have had a legislature that has been characterized by something because of the government's inability to pass legislation in this Parliament. And we can talk about Councilman Calvet's failed decree, which we didn't talk about this morning, which he had to withdraw because he didn't have the guaranteed majority, the fake decree of last year's loguer regulation, which finally became a law proposal, because last year he didn't get the majority support of this chamber; we can talk about the Aragonese law, which was also a great law that had to have the support of this chamber and that they had to withdraw because they didn't have enough support... Therefore, in all that this government really needed the majority, it has been found that it does not have them. So, what do you do when there's a few majorities that don't interest you, so not really. Simply, it does what is said deaf ears. The government didn't and didn't let it. I don't know if they may not have been sufficiently aware of the length of the legislature that they do not have a guaranteed majority, that the majority that gave place to the investiture that gave place to this government was given in a very determined political context, and that, at the length of this entire legislature, this majority is not maintained, and that what they have not had in many things is sufficient capacity to negotiate and listen to parliamentary groups in order to be able to launch initiatives. But it is that, moreover, when it is the parliamentary groups that are a majority that achieves that, despite the fact that the government and the groups that support the government vote against it, the points are taken, so what happens is that, as has been said, it is not the case. And we can give a few examples, some of which, I insist, are voted for by groups that support the government. For example, all the motions for resolutions that were approved by the monogram plethora of the rights of women, a plethora for all groups, a plethora that came from the Parliament of the Dones, a plethora that gathered the proposals of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia, and that the Government does not compliment most of the things that are approved. Another small example: the creation of the Centre d'Empresa e Drets Humans, which has also been approved in motions of the previous legislature, in motions of this legislature – in concrete terms, it was a theme presented to a motion of the Republican Group – with proposals for resolution to the Commission of Foreign Affairs and which, in the end, has had to be civil society, Lafede, the Group d'Empresa e Drets Humans de Lafede, which has worked on a proposal of law that we register the groups, here yes, with the support of the groups of the Government, because it can be a reality. Because if we have to wait for the government to do so, then we'd still be waiting. Or the reform of the law of masclistic rapes, which was first approved with a motion presented for our group, that one year after the government had not done anything, that one year after our group recorded a proposal of law and that we still feel the councilwoman Budo in public acts, and we see press notes of its council, it is said that the government will undertake the reform and expansion of the law of masclistic rapes to include institutional and digital violence. Or, they don't just don't, they just copy more, because that's a proposal that's already being moved to this Parliament, because the government didn't do it. We've already liked it, that the government does it, because it has more capacity and more legislative initiative, but it didn't, it had to be an opposition group. Or, as has already been said, the last vote on the consequences of the moves leading to this racist aggression. So, the councillor, as was well said, simply leaked to the press that they did not think to make any case. And that's it. That's to say, it's the same as what this Parliament approves. Perhaps it was the most clamorous moment of this sort of distancing that has been said, or of the break between the legislature and the execution, but it is that the one that posed on the table is also a very alarming cynicism: "I am just as much as the elected representatives of the people of Catalonia vote in Parliament. I'll do the broken one. That's the summary of that sentence. I believe that this government's ineptness and incapacity to rule, to stop stalling and to stand in front of what needs Catalonia has become manifest. So, I take advantage of this call for elections once more, which weighs like a spasm of Dàmocles, more so now, in all the legislative initiatives that we are taking forward, which we have with a time pressure that Catalonia's citizenship is not worth it. Call the elections and let a new majority pull ahead of what Catalonia needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, the deputy Mrs Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.96.0	Thank you, Counselor. MPs, MPs, started the deputy saying that her young lady was a simple young lady, an austere young woman, and as much as a few points, compared to others, are two points of very low, which go to the heart of two themes that define this legislature very well. A legislature where his young man is placed two main points. The first, that the Parliament has learned of sovereignty, and we share a part of it, of this debate on foundations. It is true that, for example, all the laws that 2017 was approved and that brought benefits for the citizenry..., and I remember that of the climate change, that of the Law of Rights of Persons or of Effective Equality, I remember the Law of Universalization of Salvation, it was brought to the Supreme Court and it was suspended. Therefore, it is obvious that where this Parliament approves, there is someone who wants to use another door to be able to suspend it, and it is this part. And the government also wanted all these suspensions on what people were benefiting from; and a very clear example is the part of continuing to give universal health care to everyone, whether they are in force or not, and they are being instructed to do so. And just because there's another part of that statement, which is what we don't share, which is that the government didn't want to, or is insinuating that it didn't want to be part of this of these motions that were approved. And it's that we need all the tools of a state to be able to give it an answer, and we need all the funding to be able to do it. It is obvious that there is one part that is political, but there is also another that is day by day, that it is to be able to do the things that Parliament approves. And in this they know perfectly well that there are, in that the Esquerra Parliamentary Group has given support for approval, and in that which is not, because the Government must be able to complete everything that this Parliament approves. But that's why we bet for the Catalan Republic, to have all the tools of a state to do it, and to have all the financing needed to bet on it. The part that I told him that we don't share is because, precisely, when we want this sovereignty, and we want it full, what we want is not to depend on a state, and there's who goes here and tells us whether the government groups will support it or not. And as long as the Republican Left Group is in government or in opposition, as soon as it is, it wants that whatever Parliament approves is complete; and so much! The same way that I understand that you, with the strength you have in the Spanish State, also want it to be known that We are in the Government, and therefore want this repression that we live every day to disappear, and want this self-identified government to "become the most progressive in history to truly make something progressive with this country of the will that we have. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, obviously when someone is ruling they want all this to happen, and we are very aware of it. And, in addition, I take the example that some of the previous Members have set for me, because they said: "The government stopped having the majority to approve the Aragonese law. So, yes, precisely, a law that you have implied that you can contract with much more social criteria than we have now. And he says: "And the government lost the majority, as if it were..., well, because now you have it, now you don't have it, that it wasn't someone who entered the electoral press and then changed his mind, when he had participated in the principle, when he had traded a lot of papers. So, if political parliamentarianism also means that whatever you think, depending on what time or electoral temperature there is, you get closer or you get closer, maybe even that every one is looking at a little bit of work ahead of you. I mean, we won't give support to the first point because we understand that the government in everything that has all of them is complete. And on the other hand, we will give support to the second point, as I said, because obviously we want everything that Parliament approves to be able to do, everything. And that's why we also need this Table that is judged by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to know that it has us all behind us, like President Carme Forcadell, that yesterday we saw how the Supreme once again imposed his revenge, that of a whole state, and clearly points out to us the direction: anyone who leads this movement, anyone who marks the path, who follows a reference, will suffer the cruelest repression. But in this, don't be mistaken, Members of the CUP, Esquerra has a clear idea of what the ultimate goal is, and what suits us, what interests us is that all the spaces are headed, from the independence left to the Catalan centre, that everyone is going, because this shared strategy that we do so many days that we say we have, once and for all, to take care of it and keep it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.97.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mr Francesc de Dalmases
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.98.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, seems that at the end of the legislatures everyone returns to winter quarters and some pre-election strategies begin to emerge. We place in this market the place we are dealing with today, which we should not allow, for this reason, this market still. Allow me a previa: all the support to the people of the CUP who saw that part of his motion had been censored to the Bureau by taking advantage of the absences on the part of the members of the majority, and, therefore, we are dealing with a motion that has been unjustly escaped. But while we're handling this minus of motions, we're looking at what's going on in a week, in a week alone, huh? The first, dimarts, judges at the Mesa – Lluís Guinó, Ramona Barrufet, Anna Simó, Lluís Corominas – and to MP Mireia Boya, accused for their ideology, to be independentists. Demeanor, Laura Borràs declares to the Supreme, flagrant and shameful case of lawfare. Three, more evidence of the intervention of Catalan policy mobiles. Four, yesterday, the judge quotes 196 investigated for the blockade of Jonquera, made after the call of the Tsunami phonedis. Five, also yesterday, the Supreme fell 100.2 of President Forcadell. It puts in danger – it puts in danger – the third degree of all political prisoners, but it is that, moreover, it puts in danger the rights of thousands of state prisoners – except for Urdangarin, eh? ; of this don't worry, you don't have to worry. Parentheses: it is the Supreme, thanks to the appeal filed for the prosecution, proudly controlled for the government of socialists and commons and supported for its tireless fans. Lessons of democracy, not one, from which he rules in a country with political prisoners and exiles; lessons of democracy, not one, from which he rules in cities with the major gypsy deporter who has held Europe after the end of the Second World War. Let's learn about democracy, not one. And yesterday, Sisena, the Supreme, who except with the Borbo without merit seems to work a lot, discards ideological motives in the White Room. The same justice and the same prosecution that says we need to re-educate our prisoners. I set, the same justice as you said: "With regard to the independence challenge, the president of the Supreme has highlighted the work of judges and magistrates in a situation of special significance for democracy in Spain. Justice responded with the necessary firmness. The sum of what I have exposed to you – I repeat: in a week alone – is the demonstration of the absence of democracy and the state of law. And when we talked about the trial at the table a while ago, between the witnesses of the defendants, all the magnificient ones, all the worthy ones, I got the explanation that Lluís Guinó made. He did a masterful lesson in parliamentarianism and separation of powers. But it wasn't an activist or a college student joke, it was at the TSJ. He explained to the magistrates who were the basic norms and essential democratic principles; he explained it, because he was accused of defending them. An aberration. He's got a place for this real freak this week. And while we're at it, what do we do? A ple, as if you didn't pass anything. All the rest of the examples I explained to you were also an aberration, but there was nothing going on here. And today you introduce us to this young man, who has a first point that is a little insulting, but I'm sure you don't want to insult, and we're just not going to vote for it. And one second, in favour, we would vote in favour of oblivion of this whole environment, not just a week ago but three years ago, but in the end, despite motions and gestures, we need to know who is to defend dignity and show respect to this chamber. Even in his autonomic limitation; even when his judicial persecution recedes; and even in those 155-spins that we see also among those we have paired. And in this second point, obvious all this environment of repression, denial of rights, political persecution, economic extortion and deep democratic exception, it seems to us – and I already know that you never do it, but it seems – that you cheat, because the rights are important that you correspond with the rights and obligations, and with the responsibilities, also in politics. It is not only that it is also your job to come here with a list of everything that seems to have been done and could be done by government advisors, it is also to question you and ask you what you did every time you repressed this chamber and the forces that make this Patian government possible. Every time President Torra gets his hands on you, what did you say? "Proceedings Constituent? « No, I'm opposed. President, desobeeixi. Concrete petition: "What is your plan? He's still waiting for your answer, the president. And, in the end, before and after a few elections, with these things we're going to have to say; but we need to say better, straighter and deeper, and we're all in the same direction, if it's possible and if we ever want to collect any fruit. And if you don't, you know, every time you go to your winter chatter, you look at yourself in the eye and you go back to the day when we're the best of the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, in order to establish his position, I have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.100.0	Thank you, President. Well, this motion that the CUP brings to us today certainly has a trap, not a misunderstanding, but in any case an argumental trap, which is that of having, in principle, presented a motion with a endless number of points, all of them manifestly unconstitutional, or some of them manifestly unconstitutional or previously declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional, and yet, in the end, the motion, indeed, as Mrs Sánchez said, is reduced to a much less ambitious thing. But, even so, I believe that this condensation of the arguments of the first proposition remains, remains, the essence, the substrate, in my view, clearly totalitarian, of its interpretation of democracy. Democracy, in modern terms, after the Second World War, cannot be understood in any way without respect for the rule of law. And that is fundamental to an idea that..., let me remind you of a phrase by Abraham Lincoln, or at least generally attributed to Abraham Lincoln : "Democrat citizens, in the same way that we do not want to be slaves, neither do we want to be masters. This is our democracy, this is our idea of democracy. And, indeed, that is the idea: there cannot be first-class citizens and second-class citizens. There can be no citizens who can commit crimes when they have real will and citizens who logically have to conform to the law, to the law, to the Statute, to the Constitution, because it is our duty as citizens, precisely. What you claim is that this Parliament can make decisions completely apart from what the Constitutional Court says, because they are based on a premise that undermines what is the constitutional democratic state, not the Spanish one, but the whole of the constitutional theory of all the democratic states of the world. When you say that a Parliament is sovereign in making decisions about what it really wants, you are undermining constitutional democracy and, above all, the principle of equality, the principle of freedom and the principle of political pluralism. You want to make, I insist, an assembly interpretation, if you want, at best, but above all totalitarian of democracy. Parliaments, politicians, we are like all citizens subject to the principle of legality, subject to the obligation to comply with the laws exactly as all citizens and, therefore, this Parliament has, exactly as the Congress of Deputies and as any other chamber of representation, the obligation to comply with the law, to comply with the Statute, to comply with the Constitution and, ultimately, with the whole democratic system. I tell you another element that also..., in which your motion also attempts to undermine what is a democratic state, which is precisely the idea of saying that the people are sovereign. When you say that the people are sovereign, you forget one thing... – I'm sorry, you don't say that the people are sovereign, I mutter, you say that the sovereign Parliament. Look, in our constitutional system, we have a system in which the sovereign is the people, the whole of the Spanish people, which is what the Constitution says. Only the entire Spanish people can make sovereign decisions. The rest, not the Autonomous Parliament of Catalonia which, by the way, is a subject of autonomy, which is not a small thing, which has immense powers over which we all have an obligation to legislate responsibly, in matters of health, in matters of education, in matters of social services, which are very important portfolios in what is a state of well-being, that is political autonomy, but obviously not, the citizenship of Catalonia or, if you want, as the expression you prefer to use, the people of Catalonia, the citizenship of Catalonia, in any case, because it is more correct in legal terms, has no political sovereignty. Political sovereignty lies with the Spanish people as a whole. Not even in the Congress of Deputies, but in the whole Spanish people. And, in this regard, I would like to remind you once again of a figure, a fundamental element, a bulwark of any democratic rule of law that is valued, which is precisely the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, which is responsible for ensuring that parliaments, politicians, abide by this principle of legality, that governments do not allow themselves to be led by their arbitrary or totalitarian impulses, and that they carry out projects that are markedly contrary to the fundamental rights of citizens. The Constitutional Court is at the forefront of a democratic rule of law like ours precisely for that, to ensure the fundamental rights of the citizens of Catalonia and of Spain as a whole. And with this resolution what you claim, even made-up, even nuanced, is precisely to say, first, that sovereignty..., or to remove sovereignty from the whole of the Spanish people who, I insist, is where sovereignty resides in this country, in our democratic order, and then to say that parliaments, that politicians, we are literally above the law, that we can do what we see the real gain without attending to what the courts say, without attending to what the Constitutional Court says. I would remind you, in this regard, of an anecdote which we have recalled several times in this Parliament, which is that of the miller of Potsdam, when he says that, fortunately, there are still judges in Berlin, in an attempt by the emperor to carry out an infringement of his fundamental rights. For the Constitutional Court in Spain is precisely for that, to ensure our fundamental rights and freedoms as citizens in the face of the totalitarian impulses of governments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.102.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, well, if we dispense with the narration mark that gives the motion the statement of reasons and also the intervention of the subgroup that proposes it and we go to the literality of the resolution part of the motion, which is certainly simple, let's say, from the parliamentary point of view, because it is true that we are averse to motion a little more charged with content and specificity, but it is simple and basically saying two things – literality –: one, that the Government is absolved of the opinion and votes that it makes to Parliament, and, secondly, that the Government should compliment the resolutions that this Parliament approves. We could agree perfectly with all two statements. Clearly, but here the thing of the young man, as will have been appreciated in the debate that preceded me, is not so much the text of the young man himself, but the subtext, right? , which, for which we are not independent, seemed to us– I don't know if they share the opinion of other groups that are not independent– enormously self-referential, and it seemed interesting, from this point of view, the intervention made by Mr. De Dalmasses, which perhaps attributed it to the proximity of some elections that take place in the environment, but it is enormously self-referential. And I would call for a reflection on the groups that support the government, that are more than they recognize as such, because Mr. De Dalmases, you said it in a very fine way, but you say: "No, the CUP..., I know you never cheat. Home, yes. I'm telling you, we don't have an electoral frequency, we don't have a lot of elections and we don't have to say it, but the CUP does sometimes cheat, it does see that it's the opposition, but there have been legislatures over the last few years, over the last two years, where the political and electoral space emerged from the Democratic Convergence that has continued to rule this country has been doing well for the support of the CUP. Therefore, we came to change it all and they have been supporting convergent governments one king the other. So miri, a little trap to me does seem to me. In any case, I said, it is very self-referential and requires reflection on the groups that support the government, because this has indeed been the core of the last legislatures. I mean, there can't be a government and a majority of Parliamentarians who obviously have a political project that doesn't have to share the whole parliamentary arc, but in the pursuit of this political project they absolutely don't know that there is another half of the country that doesn't want to see reddened to what would be the achievement of the maximum program for you. And the problem is that it does not respect a minor issue or that it can be considered marginal, let's say, I don't know, about the concrete form of providing a service within the Catalan Institute of Health, for example, that there may be differences in the ways of managing. No, no, it's about something as transcendent as the secession of Catalonia respects the rest of Spain. Clearly, we seem concerned that there is a government president, a government and a parliamentary majority in the past, who is dedicated solely to talking to each other about the best strategy to achieve this objective, all of whom know that, in reality, what they are doing is watching over who has a hegemonic role in this, let us say, division of the social and electoral bloc that supports independence and that, I have always done so in all my interventions – let us say, its magnitude: approximately 2_million people in this country have been voting systematically during the past decade of independent parties. But what's at stake is this, let's say it, and before Mrs. Espigares made reference to the order of the right center space and Mr. Dalmase I heard him say, "No, we're not the right center. Well, fi, they must be one of the few countries that doesn't have a right. I think the People's Party still recognizes it, in the space of the right center, or I don't know if it still, like in Aznar's time, they say they're reformists. But it is that Esquerra Republicana is inheriting a little bit – and it seems that not to the full satisfaction – this sociological and electoral space that occupied before Convergence and Union and, therefore, let's say, there is a Catalan nationalist right center. Let's just get on with it, let's just do what they think they have to do, but they rule, they rule, because that's what the motion was about. In the background, and this is what we criticise, the mouth of the country and the country is filled, and there the country and the country is a fan of meat, at the door of hospitals, of primary care centres, of schools, at the door of our industrial policies, where the benefits must be given to the people who need them to have decent levels of living, there the Government is gone. Many demand with everything that is not his competence, but absolutely disappeared in what he could do. Therefore, govern and apply the resolutions that arise from this Parliament, also when they do not like them. Now, if they don't like us, too, because they've come out of this Parliament and they have to apply them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.104.0	Thank you, President. From the seat. The truth is that we were before a motion that more than strictly a motion seemed to be the typical letter of contempt and repentance directed by the one who, with his vote, facilitated the investiture of Mr Quim Torra and the subsequent Government that he appointed. But this contempt and regret does not, of course, come from an attack of self-criticism by the proposing group, in fact, it actually comes because it considers that in Catalonia there has not yet been enough political and social tension and confrontation on the part of the Government during all these years. On the contrary, he is practically accusing him of being timorate and collaborating with the Spanish State. Frankly, I believe that the path to which the motion refers is not the solution to anything. It is to insist on the same mistakes and continue to walk a path that is that of confrontation and that of division between Catalans, and we are not going to aim at this. You bet clearly on confrontation, and we bet on coexistence. You bet on the breakup, and we bet on democracy. You are betting on an economic, political and social model that is contrary to the economic and social development of people, and we do not, of course, share that political, social and economic model that you defend. And it is true that the motion has been subjected to an important liposuction and despite the fact that it contains only two agreements in its operative part, we are not going to fall into the trap of what they really claim with these two points, because it is true that the Government on many occasions take note of the agreements approved by this Parliament of Catalonia, but it is also true that unfortunately this Parliament of Catalonia has adopted agreements that clearly did not have to be dealt with in this Chamber, because they are clearly contrary to the legal order. And, therefore, we are not going to fall into that trap that you propose with subterfuges, and therefore we are not going to support the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.105.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Natialia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.106.0	MPs, MPs, I'm on my way. Mrs. Spigares, you were telling me about the Aragonese law. One thing: at the moment they have had the ability to actually do things as they say they want to do, what they have done is give a contract to tell Ferrovial and fail to make a resolution of this Parliament that would make the suspension. [[Some applause.]] Secondly, we do not need a state close to suspending the six agents who have committed racist aggression; simply, that Mr. Buch apply Article 5 of the Disciplinary Regime of Mossos d'Esquadra. So, it's so small that we're asking you for this young man... Lord De Dalmases was talking to me about gesticulation. God don't do it! I invite him to come to Figueres, Salou and Tortosa. They know perfectly well that soc de Figueres. They are the three cities that you, deputies of Junts for Catalonia, have proposed to leave the Law of regulation of llogers. Three cities traversed by the poor; three cities victimized by an economic model based exclusively on tourism, which from 2014 to 2019 saw the price of the logger increase by 20_per_cent. And you, on top of that, have the bar to say you're left-handed. That's what the Catalan right of this country has done all its life. Therefore, to the government we give them, both to Esquerra Republicana and to Junts for Catalonia: they pass from the rudders to the fets. We gave it to Mr Quim Torra, and we have said it many times, Mr De Dalmases. Make a self-referential motion; yes, here is the list of all that we have told Mr Quim Torra, in the logic of sovereignty, in the logic of climate emergence, in the logic of social rights. And what they do is wishful thinking. And they'll be gone, too, when this Parliament debates and approves questions about what it does to the country model, and insist on pharaonic models like Barcelona World, like the Olympic Games of the Pyrenees... And insist and insist on a model of country that condemns to precariousness the working class, that cuts the territory and that disables access to rights to the majority of the people of Catalonia. For this, Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana, Mr. Torra and Mr. Aragonès, do the favor of listening to the Parliament of Catalonia, which therefore exists. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.107.0	He put in my name words that I didn't express outside the microphone and that would be in the record, because they were attributed to me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.108.0	So, for contradictions, and two, deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.109.0	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I did not deny that I also centered together for Catalonia, I said that we understood that the way to connect with Catalan society is that independence is cross-cutting, it's for everyone and it's for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.110.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Draft law amending the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the obligation of the previous session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and amending Law 15/2009 of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law (continuation)]] [[200-00013/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the draft law amending the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the mandatory pre-session mediation in certain family conflicts, and amending Law 15/2009 of 22 July, on mediation in the area of private law. In accordance with Rule 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for submitting submissions is now set for discussion. In the first place, the leading parliamentary groups will intervene, according to the order of entry to the Register, and later the groups that have not submitted papers will intervene. According to what was agreed to the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau, this turn of interventions will be seven minutes for each parliamentary group and five minutes for the subgroup. To defend the papers presented, has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.111.0	Thank you, President. We will advise, Members and Members, in the session where the debate on this draft law on the establishment of the obligation of the pre-session on mediation is opened, that all of us can agree in the field of justice on the need to reduce the litigation of our country. It is clear that mediation and alternative conflict resolution systems will not be determinant in ending the collapse of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia, and less so after the turmoil caused by the Covid-19 and the conflict that the same pandemic has generated. They are calling for human and material resources so that there is a real improvement in the situation of many righteous people in our country. But as we also say in that first debate, all those measures that mean improving the settlement of agreements between parties without having to go to court are welcome. Obviously, there is no such thing as a lack of effective judicial protection. Therefore, our group has made a positive reading of this project from the very beginning. We are aware that the knowledge of mediation continues to be scathing and the information does not go up to the possible parts or even to the professionals of the right, which negatively affects the mediation services. However, we would like to point out that the professional colleges of legal actors have done an important job at the time of giving training and awareness to their associates so that they can promote mediation between the parties. So there's a way to encourage, to encourage more of this use of mediation, and the bill we're debating goes on this line. We aimed at the estave of economic costs, of time, but above all emotional, which involves mediation, at the time that the involvement of the parties in the resolution of conflicts. Therefore, positive effects, especially in the subject matter which was addressed and which is confined to the most private and personal sphere of human relations. Therefore, in view of these positive considerations, our group considered necessary the modification made by the Government both of the Civil Code of Catalonia and of the Law of Mediation in the field of private law, so as to introduce the pre-mediation session as a requirement of procedurality in the areas you foresee. The points that we believe could be reinforced by this original text were that it was necessary to guarantee the equal status of the parties and the full knowledge of their rights and obligations when they come to this means to resolve conflicts. Therefore, from the moment of the pre-session the parts must be able to be assisted by their cast or cast. This assistance should be necessary if the parties so require or if the judicial authority so provides, and it must always be fully developed in accordance with the principles of mediation and equality between the parties. And this was the message that we presented and that was accepted, which we appreciate. On the other hand, it respects the considerations presented by the other groups, saying that in the case of the group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, which has been negotiated with the groups of Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, we would vote in favour of it, since we share the need to incorporate the perspective of gender and the protection of persons and communities in a situation of inequality such as to open the mediation to other areas within the competition mark and, therefore, to articulate a plan for designing public policies for the alternative resolution of conflicts, which has as its tool a law of management and resolution of conflicts in Catalonia. On the other hand, we will collect the papers presented also for Catalonia in Comú We may not have been the object of the transaction, because we agree to stop any mediation in cases where there may have been male rape. So we also agree that the pre-mediation session that is intended to do a once-in-a-lifetime judicial process must be completed as soon as possible, above all thinking about the subject matter in which this bill focuses. The resolution of family conflicts or when held by minor objects cannot be extended over time. As for the Ciutadan Group's submissions, on the one hand, we will collect the one that has been the object of the transaction, also with the groups that give support to the Government, and, on the other, those that make it possible to mediate the persons accredited to the effect and, therefore, that they can also choose from the register that appears in the professional and other accredited institutions; the one that expands the advice that must be given respect to the mediation, also the economic cost of this and, finally, the one that calls for more economic media and materials for justice so that the implementation of the pre-mediation session does not suppose, this implementation, a factor that supports the situation of the Administration of Justice. We understand that, by definition, the implementation of the pre-session should not entail additional costs for the Administration of Justice, but, in any case, strengthen the structure we have in the Administration of Justice today and with the situation in which we have it – we have already mentioned it – so it seems to us always uncertain. We end up putting two things in value. The first, the willingness of the government and the groups that have submitted reviews on the initial text, that we believe can make agreements that enrich the text and improve it. And the second, we take a step further on the path that the legislator of the Family Code of 98, that took the law of 2001, that followed the law of 2009 and that deepened in this project that we will vote on today. We have taken a positive step in the need to bet on mediating and other alternative ways to resolve conflicts, and, Members and Members, I am sure that we must continue to move forward in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.112.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobig has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.113.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, we've had the opportunity to talk enough about the project and all its extremes. And at this session, in this case in my intervention, what I would like is to be more strict about the value of the different points that have been put forward, some of them coincident between other groups, and there are also groups that, certainly, have not made any proposals, which I would like to deduce will translate into a positive vote on the proposal, as I believe that the general opinion of the chamber is that it is a positive proposal and that goes in the right line to seek to lighten the burden of our courts, beyond the loopholes that may have alternative conflict resolution systems. And in any case, and as long as I didn't do it the other day, what I would like to have is also a record, in this case, for the Director General of Law and Legal Entities, Mr Xavier Bernadí, who logically had a lot to see, so, with this proposal, always obviously from the point of view of the Councilwoman. The Citizens' Group has asked us a very important number of issues, so we have to say, and always positive, and, as it has presented them, I think that as a group, in this case, which the Government is collecting, it is our obligation, so, to look at why we agree with them, as it has already been in a transaction, as I will explain further, and why in others we understand that we can't embrace them, huh? With regard to the first of the issues, in which I intended to eliminate the obligation of the pre-mediation session, as the agreement of the judicial authority..., I believe that it makes him lose all feeling at the legislative initiative being promoted. Precisely the will is to promote mediation in this area and as long as it cannot be mandatory as long as it is granted by a court or judicial authority, we certainly believe that we are losing this feature of media promotion. According to them they claim that mediation can be long-term for any professional who does not need to be registered in the general register through the Mediation Centre, and does not seem correct to us, huh? Article 11 of Law 15/2009, to the text given for this draft law, deals with mediation in the course of a procedure already initiated, eh? , and it must therefore be possible for other professionals to intervene in mediation in different stages of the process, that is, before or after the possibility of this session has passed. For what it does to the third, and which has its logical, is to say, that those who are under the session have knowledge of the rates of the mediation, which could be logical, we understand that it is already previewing the current regulation explicitly and implicitly. The same section 1 of Article 11 of the Law on Mediation, when it speaks of characteristics, including the rates of mediation and section 3 of the same article already establishes that the parties that decide to initiate the mediation must accept, among others, their rates, which must be facilitated before initiating it. Therefore, we understand that this session already gives them knowledge and that, therefore, this theme is already understood in the same text of the bill. The fourth question seeks to narrow down the conflict resolution practices that the Catalonian Mediation Centre can develop by eliminating its generic alternative conflict resolution methods, combined with mediation, and strictly adding the terms 'conciliation and arbitration'. And, from our point of view, narrowing it down in this way is to put in a better regulation... older, certainly. We believe that we have come up with means of conflict resolution, and we have done a drafting of this type in an objective way that the tasks to which the centre can be dedicated, and therefore we are more in favour of the text proposed by the bill, as it would allow these new media figures to emerge to be incorporated. As far as the five and the seven are concerned, from our point of view they want to unjustifiably extend the object of the legislative amendment they are calling for. As you have been able to consult the file of this draft law, there has certainly been a very important task that is developed in many areas, in many institutions, and we do not know that it has been planned to expand the mediation of conflicts in the area of DGAIA, and therefore we understand that it goes beyond what is the object of the draft law. For what it does to the sisena, certainly, here we have proposed a transaction with a new additional arrangement that implies the promotion of the use of mediation in the disputes that arise because of the internal functioning of different legal entities, and in this case we wanted to add to it the foundations, and it has been welcomed in good grace for Ciutadans, which we appreciate. For what he's doing in his eighth year, it certainly seems to us out of place..., it would seem to me to imply that there is a corrupt system of mediator designation, and we understand that there are standards that set the Catalonia Media Centre, and we trust it. And, as something that doesn't work properly, we understand that positivizing such a comprehensive system of regulation is the only one that creates mistrust. In the same way that seems superfluous to us what is raised to Emena 9, the reference that the Generality will not prevent the free market of the professionals empowered to mediate. We understand that we are developing in a standard framework, that there has been legal certainty and that, therefore, as a practical means of enabling this development to be free from these mediators, there would already be means to reverse this situation. And, for what he does behind the scenes – which the PSC Group has already announced that it would cost it – it seems to us that he is more worthy of a motion for a resolution. We understand... the government already has an obligation to provide materially and humanly, so all departments and all procedures; so, as long as we do not do so, we already have control mechanisms in the same Parliament, putting forward proposals for resolution, to address it, and so, again, to posit it we understand that it is out of place. As far as the PSC's plans are concerned... there are actually four elements, but they have one text, because they refer to different deviations from the bill, and we agree with them, right? They have to see the participation of the lawyers or lawyers of the parties in the pre-session, if they so require or so grant the judicial authority, and it seems perfect, we have no sense of inconvenience. And, as far as the commons are concerned, we agree with one of them, with a new additional provision that sets out very ambitious objectives, in this case for the department, which are linked to terms: a one-year deadline for regulatory development and training in the field of prevention, conflict management and resolution; again, counting on the entry into force of the law, because the Government is preparing and presenting to Parliament a plan on the adoption of a general public policy for prevention, management and extrajudicial resolution of conflicts, and also the term of one year, since the entry into force of this law, because the Government is preparing and submitting to Parliament a draft law on prevention, management and resolution of conflicts. From our point of view, as the rest of the points of view that have been raised, from the point of view of the gender perspective and the protection of vulnerable people and communities, we are fully in agreement, and therefore we will vote in favour of these points. In short, I believe that the task we have all done at this point has enriched a bill that in case it is already to help reverse a situation, which is that of the col·lapse of our justices. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.114.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.115.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable councillor, last Tuesday, before this plenary, the Bill to Amend the Book of the Civil Code, in relation to the establishment of the mandatory pre-session session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and to Amend Law 15/2009, of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law. We discussed it, they exposed the postures and, in essence, we concluded a consensus of the majority of groups on the need and positive view of this law. All the groups, within the CUP and the PP, have submitted papers which, carried by the majority of the Ciutadans Group, do not detract in absolute terms from the object of the law and provide complementary elements. The PSC presents a group of papers to ensure that reference is made to the participation of electors in the proceedings, which we agree with. The group of commons proposes drafts in the amendments of Law 15/2009, in the sense of inserting a clause of impartiality and perspective of gender and suppression of the mediation in case the woman has suffered or suffered male violence, and in the sense of establishing a time-transparent term that depreciates the obligation to attend to it. It also proposes an additional provision, like that proposed by the group I represent and the Group of the Republic, in the sense of realising the subsequent regulatory development, in the sense of incorporating the perspective of gender and the protection of persons and collectors in an unequal situation, of temporalizing the drafting of the Law on Prevention, Management and Resolution of Conflicts in Catalonia and of providing for the elaboration of a plan, and presentation before the Parliament, on the object of this future law. They understand that these items improve the law; that is why we will vote for them. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group presents the largest group of papers, and it should be noted that most of these, to our mind – and for this reason we will not vote for them – distort the essence of the bill. For example, the first, which removes the mandatory character of the pre-session, which, effectively – we don't understand if they haven't read the name of the law – is precisely about this, that it's mandatory, this pre-session. Or, for example, Emena 2, when they propose that mediators may not be the professionals registered in the general register of the Media Centre of Catalonia; in this sense, we give our words that the representative of the Republic Group, who preceded us, has put forward. Or the items that refer to the lesser unemployed, which is already an outcast population of the media, in not getting there an essential element of the figure, such as the equal status of the parties. And the rest, which we believe do not bring any element that relates or improves to the original proposal. Yes, however, that we accept item number 6, with the written transaction, that adds to the law the preview of promotion of the figure in the field of foundations, associations or legal persons, because we consider that in this case it does bring a complementary and positive element to the law. We consider, therefore, that the result of the joint work is good and that we set up a law which together gives a step forward in the management of personal conflicts, since it will promote knowledge and use of this complementary but effective figure, which helps to de-judicialize the resolution of conflicts, which empowers the same citizenry in this resolution and with the implementation of the agreements reached and which ultimately aims to build a society of the 21st century. That is why, in the end, we want to thank the Council and the Government for the impetus of the law, and the parliamentary groups, for the dialogue and the girl proposals, as we believe that together we have done a good job. And, finally, I cannot help but reflect on what exactly happened to me in the process of the law, with which we are precisely promoting mediation in the area of private conflicts and heavy conflicts, personal conflicts, resolutions that affect the development of a lifetime, that affect minors and that, in change, this same form of resolution of conflicts that are not imposed by a judgment, but are derived from the pact, therefore, in the conflict between Catalonia and the State, the State is not able to enter into this mediation, to enter into this agreement, and continues, in turn, to impose it through judgments. We refer only to the two behind the Supreme: the one concerning the revocation of 100.2 of the president of this Parliament, but also the one concerning the lowering of the sentence to which the Catalan Centre of Blanquerna attacked. We have, therefore, judicial resolutions that place democracy in prison and violence in the street. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.116.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word now the deputy Mrs Yolanda López. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.117.0	Thank you, President. As we have already said at Tuesday's plenary session, it is clear that the endemic malfunction of the administration of justice, with historical saturation, delays in the management of files, and if we add to this the stop produced by the Covid, the situation will worsen to intolerable limits, damaging the guarantees of effective judicial protection, even the third pillar of the rule of law. We need an alternative to the family's jurisdiction to cover the saturation in which all judicial bodies find themselves. In this sense, enhancing mediation is a good tool, but, we reiterate, it must always be a subsidiary of the first objective: to achieve modern, effective, humane and agile justice. Poor mediation can be worse than a solution. That is why it is essential to ensure the speeding up of the process, to ensure that this procedure will not cost the service and, of course, in no case will this be a door for the judicialization and privatization of a basic public service. Moreover, it is essential that the protection of the weakest party be guaranteed at all times, while maintaining the tuitious nature of justice in respect of victims, minors and the most vulnerable, a circumstance which is guaranteed in the courts by the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and which is not so in arbitration. That is why we have presented these fundamental principles through amendments since Catalonia in Comú Pomera, in order to make the relevant amendments in order to make this an acceptable project. We consider it essential to ensure that this pre-session does not cause delays in the process. The preliminary draft contributes to the innovation that the judge can force the parties to attend a prior information session on the properties of the mediation procedure, even if one or both of them were against it. However, it does not set a maximum time limit within which this briefing should be held, which in practice may unduly delay the hearing and does not guarantee that the hearing would take place before the expected time for the hearing to be held. That is why we believe that it must be established that this mandatory session cannot exceed the month. Otherwise, the arbitral body must inform the court that it has set a date outside this time limit and that assistance is compulsory. Also from Catalunya in Comú Puedes we believe that the law must ensure that compulsory law does not cost the parties an extra cost. The preliminary draft submitted by the Government provides that the judge shall require the parties to attend the preliminary mediation session. However, it does not make clear who will have to meet the pre-session fees if they are mandatory by the court. Accordingly, it is understood that the rates provided for arbitration by the parties will apply. It should be borne in mind that, at this point, the parties, unless they are beneficiaries of free justice, have already made a significant expenditure, also bearing in mind that family jurisdiction is excluded from any fee for the exercise of jurisdiction, because it is considered to be a jurisdiction that is particularly sensitive and alien to economic interests. Accordingly, it should be established that when the session is imposed by the judge, it is free for the parties, whether or not they benefit from free justice. Another issue that is essential for us is to ensure that it is out of mediation when violence occurs. Article 233-6 of the draft leaves the door open for such compulsory attendance at the previous session also to be carried out in cases of domestic or sexist violence against women, minors or persons with disabilities. Explicitly, the draft refers only in point 2 to the exclusion by the case of agreement of mediation, but it can be understood that it does not exclude it in the event that there is a prior agreement between the parties or that the court imposes it. The appropriateness of the introduction of mediation in family disputes with the presence of violence is more than questionable, although some believe that it can be useful for a peaceful and agile resolution of conflicts, which in any case will require a more decisive presence of the Prosecutor's Office, to ensure that there is no coercion or vices of consent. In any case, it requires a long period of study and dialogue with professionals, experts and collectives. That is why we consider it important to amend this part and to ensure shielding in these situations. Accordingly, we propose the possibility of establishing that the compulsory attendance at a prior mediation session introduced by articles 233-6.3, 236-13.3, either by prior agreements between the parties or by a decision of the judge, is explicitly excluded in all cases of violence. And finally, from Catalonia in Comú Puem, we also present an additional provision to shield the gender perspective, since gender education and sensitivity is a deficit that has always maintained ordinary jurisdiction. The demand that the training of female judges and prosecutors at the Judicial School include gender training is an old requirement that has not yet come true, with consequences for certain sentences that we all have in mind. Although the Generalitat does not have competence in this field, it does have it to ensure that at least this deficit does not occur among the professional persons exercising mediation, a requirement that gains particular attention now that it is intended to strengthen the tool of mediation in the family sphere. To thank both the Councillor and the department and the Members of the other parliamentary groups that we have made the effort and agreed to enrich this law, which I believe is very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.118.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Manuel Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.119.0	Thank you, President. Well, in my last speech I asked Mrs Capella, and specifically I am extending it to the other groups, what makes them think that all the judicial collapse, that all the judicial waiting lists that we have right now in Catalonia, namely more than 75,000 pending trials and those that are going to come to us now until the end of the year, mainly because of the effects caused by the pandemic and the socio-economic situation in which we have been affected after the crisis of the Covid-19... is obviously going to be a very complicated situation, isn't it? Then, the question was very simple: what made them think that with a law or a mediation bill we were going to solve the situation of waiting lists in justice. Well, I was also telling them that we were not against those retouchings, but we believe it is important to emphasize that mediation as an alternative method of conflict resolution comes to be that, something accessory, something alternative, as is well explained. In any case, as you well know, the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, on account of responsibility and as the first group in this House, wanted to improve the text. In fact, we have tabled ten amendments, which are even above the number of articles that are being amended in this Act, namely four of the Civil Code of Catalonia and five of the Mediation Act. However, I told them that because specifically since the councillor's office, from the Department of Justice, it has been sold in media, in interviews and even in commissions that this was the solution to the great problems that justice has today and, therefore, we think it is talking too much..., it is talking for talking. Because finally, and let's not be fooled, the Department of Justice has a number of obligations, it has a number of specific problems that I explained to them in the last intervention and, above all, what it has..., which is to ensure that there is no more burden in the courts, there is no delay in the procedures, and also that does not mean a cost to the citizens. In addition, it was important to emphasize that more human, economic and material resources were needed, as well as the actual digitization of the electronic file. We believe that platforms should be much more accessible, and what is not normal is that lawyers and prosecutors have to spend hours fighting whether with a computer or with an electronic certificate, because they can't get to submit a writing. The problem is that the work that should be done has not been done within Justice. Also the question of the development of the courts. Last year, specifically in November 2019, eight courts were approved for Catalonia and only two have been developed in the social sphere. I asked the counselor how this situation was, and we don't know anything. Frankly, what we believe is that it is important to work on a real and effective clash plan in justice, because, if waiting lists are currently in 75,000 pending cases, we will certainly find a much more complex situation at the end of the year. More issues, and now expressly in the area of mediation. This bill we believe could have improved a lot more. In fact, it is too much in the family sphere, but it deliberately ignores areas such as inheritance, ownership communities, the fifth book, the third book, or foundations and associations, which we have finally agreed on in a compromise amendment. But in other matters..., other groups have referred to the ten amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, in that once the judicial process was initiated, it was said in the draft law, ex officio by parties, lawyers or professionals, and of a mandatory nature. We believe that in the end it must be the parties who have the object of the procedure; it is a private procedure, and it is therefore the parties who must decide whether or not they want to be subjected to mediation. Secondly, also, to avoid a violation of the device principle. It is essential that this also does not lead to a delay beyond the procedure or to an overload of the courts, because we imagine that many judges have to suspend their proceedings and that means an accumulation and overload in the courts because they have to go to a prior mediation session. Thirdly, as far as the qualified professional is concerned; we believe that this also relates to the free exercise of mediators. We believe that they must not only be discharged in the register of the Catalonian Mediation Centre, but also any professional qualified for it, because in the end it is the parties who decide to submit themselves to this mediation and they must decide who can also be the mediator. We believe that the parties should be freed and not monopolized by the Mediation Centre who should be the mediator at all times, right? and, if the parties consider it appropriate, to choose the most appropriate professional. More issues: the topic of mediation fees. We believe that the most appropriate time is in the pre-session, and more so if it is a mandatory pre-session. I think it is important to ensure transparency and that visibility is given from the department and from the law itself, and above all transparency is given very clearly, and above all the parties know the cost, which will lead to mediation, because although they have already started a procedure with lawyers and prosecutors, and in some cases with judicial fees, we believe it is also important to know the cost of the mediator and the mediation procedure. Other issues. Look, we have done something as revolutionary as introducing an amendment to introduce mediation within the administrative scope of the Generalitat, within the General Directorate of Child Care, even before, provided that there are no criminal matters by means of or criminal acts. We are talking about situations where there are people of special need, of particular vulnerability, and we believe that before carrying out an administrative helplessness on the part of the Generalitat..., we see with good eyes that it is the Generalitat that is submitted to mediation and appoint a mediator, whether it is from the Center of Mediation of Catalonia or a qualified professional, to study the situations of possible helplessness and to help those families. We believe that it is important and even revolutionary to put it within the administrative sphere. You, who make so many flags of mediation..., think it is a good time to set an example and to introduce it within the scope of the General Directorate of Child Care. Finally, there were also three other amendments in which..., one of them in which we talked about that the designation procedure must be absolutely transparent, open, respecting at all times the principles of impartiality and neutrality, and that the designation must also be by drawing lots. And finally, then, other issues: the issue of market freedom, free competition, that there is no monopoly on the part of the Mediation Center of Catalonia. And finally, as I mentioned in my introduction and commented on the other day, and in conclusion, we believe it is important for the Government to respect the fulfilment of the mandatory pre-trial session, but that this does not impose an overload on the courts or a delay in the procedure, and, above all, that it must provide adequate resources, staff, economic resources...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.120.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.121.0	... of economic and material resources to the courts and the judicial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. To position himself has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.123.0	Good morning, practically good afternoon, everyone. If institutional policy is applied to some on a day-to-day basis practically unbearable, when electoral pre-campaigns arrive it becomes absolutely unbearable. Look, this parliamentary subgroup has already explained the past several times why it would vote for it and why it would not do reviews; but it is the same, as there are parliamentary groups here – not to mention the majority or almost all – that they are already in electoral campaign or pre-electoral campaign mode, they are much more interested in the size of the video than the ability to analyze what we are talking about. In the band, we explained not only why we would vote in favour, and we advanced the scale, from the content of the Law of Mediation, but we wanted to thank the department for the way in which it had worked. And for a detail that didn't give us time to explain past scales, but that's very simple: at the first moment that we have knowledge that this is happening, we ask the Department of Justice to convey to us what is working, and on June 7th – and now, that's it – of this year, so, through the person responsible for Institutional Relations, we have what at the end of the day was the present decree. And we want to thank him, because that's the way he's supposed to try to work all the time. And, therefore, this explanation is unnecessary. More than we wanted to explain why we would vote in favour of it, we also let the viewer or interviewer, better said, the past minute we disagreed with. And the first thing we didn't agree with was a certain sense in the letters and letters, so it was built that you didn't have much interest in mediation, like maybe, at all, you didn't just explain to your representatives/representatives– so that sometimes we call clients, better represented/representatives– the meaning of mediation or other out-of-court conflict resolution mechanisms. And, obviously, we don't share that, because among other things that have more interest with the parts to always come to agreement is an Iletrate or an Iletrate. And it seemed to us that the talk of motius was coming up with a counter-opinion. But there is another reason why we do not agree absolutely with the present regulatory change, which is to be able to transform non-compulsory mediation. We believe that transferring it to a magistrate, a magistrate, a judge, a judge or a judge can not only – it does not mean that it always – tempt against the right to effective judicial protection, but that many times it is separate from the very purpose of mediation, and therefore there are magistrates who before certain contexts that do not have relation to the subject of foundations, so if they find the possibility to pose a compulsory mediation, they will impose a compulsory mediation. And with this, obviously, we disagree and will be one of the reasons for which we will vote in favour of any of the issues that have arisen. It does seem to us to be very interesting the central reflection of the motius exposition, important and decisive, which is all it can bring. Here we also have to differentiate between two realities. We have not yet fully shared the idea that from an economic point of view this will also be positive, because it can be, but we also explain that it may not be, and therefore the cost from an economic point of view that it assumes for people is the same as before there is a mediation, because it may already be predetermined and therefore would not change anything. But there is another contribution that is not put in value, from this normative modification of the mediation, that we want to put in value. And it made us see a historical company of the CUP that is a specialist in mediation, that is that mediation brings satisfaction for both parts normally, and therefore, beyond what is supposed to mean by economic stability, repair for both parts is always a success from the social point of view, and that is what should be done to them: when the parts are voluntarily subservient to mediation and sometimes they also have the perception that the agreement reached through this mediation, therefore, repairs them; more or less, but repairs them, and, therefore, a social success. And that's why all that's the bulk of this law we value positively: to facilitate more mediation, to facilitate more mechanisms, to be able to even see how there is a subjection to the possible mediation and even to what is transferred to judicial resolution, because it can be validated, and also give more legal certainty, because for us it can also strengthen even the whole legal certainty. We also agree with the proposed changes that are incorporated, because they are of technical quality and therefore seem necessary to us. And the last one, mirin, does not give us time to explain our position on the dinosaurs, but we want to refer to two aspects of the Citizens' Group: one, which refers to the absence of compulsory mediation – we will vote for it, because it forms part of our political logic – and the other, more complex, that of the DGAIA. We will vote in favour of it with full knowledge that urgent and risky procedures will not operate in the terms that have been explained, but we do think that for the rest of the procedures can be positive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.124.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperanza García's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.125.0	Good afternoon. It will advise, deputies, deputies, the axes that motivated this Bill to modify the Civil Code's book, we believe that it was: a first, that it was to reduce judicial conflict; a second, that it was to improve the emotional stress not only of couples, but also of the minor results of this new situation and new family nuclei resulting from a break, and also to make effect, as the third point, therefore, the alternative methods of resolving conflicts, but always guaranteeing effective judicial protection. And these are the reasons that exactly led us to say yes to the bill presented by the government today. The original text I think has improved slightly, because there are many items that have not been accepted, and that is why many items will be given recollection badly that the government did not want to include them in the text, because they are based on three principles that we believe to be of use. One, which is the reinforcement of litigants' warranties with remote assistance, and in this, without being used as a precedent, I'm a little in agreement with the UPC, right? : It seems that there is a criminalization of the function of the lawyer between separation and divorce procedures, as if they were the casters that caused the most or least traumatic of a contention, when it is not so. One of the principles that we believe is important and that contain the elements that you have not accepted is to ensure that the pre-session will not be a delay tool used by the parties in order to resolve the conflict. Therefore, those points which set a maximum time limit for the pre-session, we believe are very important. And a third point, which is an obvious but sometimes not so obvious, is that a law to be implemented needs necessary resources, and some of the government says: "Home, of course, that's obvious. Obviously, however, we have an example which is called minimum guarantee income: it did not have the economic resources necessary to implement it. We only have one left, which we have already advanced the last ten-fold, which was the non-introduction of parental coordination, which in terms of legislative technology is true that it is not very correct, because this is a fundamental law that refers to mediation, but we believe that it is a waste of opportunity, and, as the members of the government and the groups that are bringing the government together, we have presented papers, but we have had an IT problem that has made it impossible for us to debate it from here. But in any case, we will open up and start this task again with a separate law, because we believe even that it will technically be easier to apply it on the part of a judge, than in the end – and here the plan, especially the Republican Left and the Junts for Catalonia – is precisely a judge of the ultimate guarantee of protection of rights in a democratic state and of right as ours is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.126.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally she asked to intervene for a return thanks to the Councillor of Justice, Mrs Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.127.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, thank you to the parliamentary groups that explicitly and clearly support the Law Project to modify the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the mandatory pre-session mediation in certain family conflicts, and also to the Law 15/2009, of 22 July, mediation in the field of private law. Well, I'll point out some questions, huh? Basically, thankfully and say that mediation is agreed, I agree to resolve the conflict, which helps those involved, the parties to the conflict situation, to finish a stage, the stage of the conflict, so that we can continue, therefore, with their lives. It's a paradigm shift, mediation. I am saying this to support this elementary and clear and basic structure of what is the Law of Mediation, which is mediation and the other ways of resolving conflicts. It does not avoid judicial collapsing, it does not replace judges and magistrates; no, it is a paradigm shift at the time of, therefore, resolving our conflicts, which means abandoning the culture of confrontation, to start a change and, therefore, land in the culture of negotiation, dialogue and agreement. And this law and this modification and this bill of law are in this line, and in the empowerment of the citizenry, of the parts of the citizenry, in the ability we have as people to control our lives in an adult way. That is, resolving conflicts, being part of the solution in the resolution of the conflict, making you the resolution of the conflict, therefore, to end, as I said, the conflict situation and move to a situation of restarting that aspect of life, therefore, that has collapsed due to the conflict situation. So, basically, it's, so... what you mean and what you mean by mediation and other forms of conflict resolution is that we all learn to live in a different way and that, in the end, we resolve our differences in a more negotiated way, more dialogue, with agreement and, obviously, with each other, each of us, the solution and, in the end, we can be a happier xic. Thank you. Many thanks to the parliamentary groups. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.128.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Proposed law on the exemption of co-payment to minor orphans under guardianship for the administration and amendment of Law 14/2010, on the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence (continuation)]] [[202-00070/12]] The next item on the agenda is the debate on the proposed law on the exemption from co-opting of minor orphans protected by the Administration and on the amendment of Law 14/2010, on the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. In the first place, the key parliamentary groups will intervene according to the order of entry into the register and, later, the rest of the groups that have not submitted papers will intervene. As agreed by the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen in this case, there will also be seven-minute interventions for the group and five-minute interventions for the parliamentary subgroups. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.129.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, I believe that during these last few days we have been back to doing an exercise that for many and many of us seemed to be an already seen, because in fact the law that we are amending today has been modified on three occasions in the last four years and, therefore, what poses a manifest is that it is not so much a problem with the wording of the law. The wording of the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood in Catalonia, its additional seven disposition was modified, as we explained the other day, the year..., there was a first will to modify it but ended the legislature in 2017; the governing groups changed it the year 2017, with all the good intention; later also it was modified, the generation of this year 2020, and now we re-amend it, with a clear objective, that it is that the children orves protected by the Government of Catalonia may be able to return to their own thought a time has been left to be protected. Therefore, all the groups of this chamber, all of us, in motions for resolutions, have modified the law, all of us have the will that this be so. Now what we're doing is changing this law again, compromising everything and everything that these pensions need to be returned to. But we did do it another time, among other things, for two reasons: first, because it's not happening, and we already denounced it the other day: the law says it clearly, but the government has not deployed the rule that you do this return. Therefore, we are not so much in a matter of what we want to do, but of leaving on the part of the Government, that by the year 2017 we could have done the relevant instructions to begin to devolve to these children and young wards for the Generality in an orphan situation. What we have done now – and it was also the intention of the Socialist Parliamentary Group – is to leave the wording that had already been approved, because it seemed to us that it was clear enough, and add a new article that you allowed retroactive payment to those infants that had not been charged since 2017. And we say from the year 2017 because it seemed to us that the wording already in 2017 was very clear, and so we pose for it – which is not very common, but I think that this is how we force a little government to do it – the fact that we can study what are the cases, what are those children who have not since the year 2017 until today rejected this thought of orphanism, which makes the mechanism that you consider appropriate so that they can take this payment and, therefore, restore those rights that have been taken away at the time of collecting your pension. Beyond that, and also with the issues traded with other political groups..., and I have to say that this one that I have just commented on at these moments I have been able to trade between Ciutadans, Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, the Party of Socialists of Catalonia and I think I'm leaving some other group, huh? We are all from the point of view of the transaction; therefore, it is the majority, this will of return. We will also vote in favour of the compromise that makes us look for the formula to restore those that have been in this situation since the year 2012. Here it is true that, from the legal point of view, we find some doubts in the sense that the literal law, in its moment, gave place to a certain interpretation, as it was, interpretations for and against. From the year 2010, from the approval of the law, until the year 2012, the infant orphans received their benefit, but a new interpretation made for the government of that time, in 2012, caused it to stop charging. So, let's try to do everything we can because those children... since 2012, they've always had the right to receive the benefit, but since that new interpretation the government has also been able to receive this orphan benefit. I believe that, in short, this is the message presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. I hope that once again all the parliamentary groups can make the legislative change, not that I allow, I insist, the return, because I already allow the previous one, but if in case what we want with this new opportunity, through the initiative that the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has held – all that has been before, the intentions–..., then, that this is the last time that we have to bring to amend an article of a law so that the Generality can take advantage of the orphan money of the children protected in Catalonia. A subject which should shame all of us, which should reflect on the compliment that we give or what is done to the Government of the Laws which approves this very Parliament; which affects 233 children in Catalonia; that the economic quantities of which we are talking about are tiny, and that the evil which we do to the children, to the children, to the children, to the orphans of this country is very great when, once they have ceased to be protected, they see that they have ceased to perceive what is a right, such as the right of the orphan. Therefore, I hope among all of us that we can find another opportunity to change the law and, now, to give a term, if it can be as short as possible, to the Government because, if not, the last alternative, the only alternative that will remain for us to go to court, because it is no longer possible for a government such as we have been governed by during these years, still today, since 2017, clearly..., you are without developing a law, not just the article, the additional provision seven, but a law of the year 2010, of the rights and opportunities of the child, that after years of continuous non-regulatory deployment. We can't afford it in an autonomous community with Spain's highest poverty index and which only surpasses Romania. So, I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we are all making an effort. And to thank also, therefore, the effort of Mrs Naomi of the Street to try to find the necessary arrangements to make this renewal of the law again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.130.0	On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya In Comú Puem, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.131.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Councillor, one of the groups that is always most affected by cuts, crises and austerity measures are children and adolescents. If we want to build a more just society, our priority must be to fight child poverty and provide equal opportunities for all citizens, without distinction, and especially for our young people, because they are the future and deserve more than we have offered them so far. As we have already said, the substance of the proposal for a law for debate had been resolved by means of the law on measures. The unfortunate and so far contrary interpretation of the right made by Instruction 1/2012 of 24 February of the seventh additional provision of Law 14/2010 had already been amended. But, as the saying goes, it is wise to rectify, and it seems that Citizens have decided to take the opportunity to improve their proposal and have worked with all parliamentary groups, accepting amendments and transactions, to take a step further in defending the best interests of the child. On the one hand, it is clear that orphaned adolescent children will not be reduced in their benefit or pension for expenses arising from their orphanhood. On the other hand, he proposed that the orphan's pension should be integrated into the child's assets and that the full amount of his assets should be delivered after the guardianship or custody had been completed. Our group voted in favour of the Ciutadans bill being debated in this plenary session. because we believe that it could be useful to solve a matter that is essential for us and that it was not resolved: what happened to the hundreds of minors who have been kidnapped and not returned to their assets the pensions that they were entitled to; what we do with the unfair practice of fraudulent copayment for a free service per portfolio, and what the Government has done since 2012. The initial proposal of the Ciutadans Group provided only for the obligation to return children and adolescents under the care of the Generalitat who were not more than twenty-one years old by 31 December 2020. That means that it left out the measure of return from the improperly charged to hundreds of extolled and extolled. We do not share the view of twenty-one years, because, in our view, they never lost that right. All orphans who were harmed by this measure, whether before or after 2017, have the right to be returned to them what is theirs. That's why we made an amendment from Catalonia in Comú Puem to do justice to all those who have seen their rights violated without exception, and I appreciate the willingness of Citizens to reach an agreement and be able to compromise. An agreement that reflects our interpretation: the right to be given the pension when they are eighteen years old, for it is something that, as I said before, they have never lost. They must return their pensions to orphans who have been harmed by this measure during all these years. Retroactivity has to be for all affected people. That is why from our group we will vote in favour of the two transactions on retroactivity, so that they can recover what is theirs, regardless of what years they are now or how long it has been for them to be applied that additional provision so twisted and unjust. Today is a good day for the hundreds of boys and girls who have seen their rights violated. It is regrettable that this has happened since 2012; it is regrettable that since 2017 it has not been corrected, for the government's failure to make regulations, and it is regrettable that at no time has the government proactively resolved the impact with retroactivity. From now on, there are no more excuses, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, do their work, it is necessary that they already put in place the necessary measures to comply with this law with all its points and that, when there is a new budget, there are already the mechanisms to activate the retroactivity that is approved today. The sooner we amend the bad practices, the sooner we return the violated rights, and for that they will find us next door, to restore the rights of the most vulnerable. After the syndic's repeated warnings in his reports, of complaints from relatives, associations and even children under guardianship, and to put an end to this measure which has harmed the children of Catalonia for so many years, we must work together to reverse all those discriminatory practices. And let us never forget, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that for a country to move forward we must not leave behind anyone, let alone our children, who deserve to be cared for, give them hope and offer them a future, and so far they have not done so. So they already amend the bad mistakes of the past and restore the rights of children and adolescents as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.132.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.133.0	Thank you. How can it be that since 2012 one's own laws, adopted here in this Parliament in 2010, have been violated and that, in addition, a situation of abuse and misappropriation by the Generalitat of orphan's pensions for children protected by the Generalitat has been taking place almost until 2017? How can it be that I have spent so much time with that legal framework, with proposals approved in this Chamber to return those amounts, and have not reacted until 2017? And still members of this government, even the councillor, pretends that, from 2017 until then, let's make a new account and that nothing happened to those minors here. How can it be? Look, we, when we saw the proposal for a law, have already told your spokesman, your rapporteur, that it seemed to us to be a law that introduced not only the terms of justice with regard to the most vulnerable persons who, in this case, are minors, orphaned minors, but also that of dignity, the restoration of dignity and, therefore, we have tabled amendments. We have tabled four amendments with fairly clear objectives, which are the total shielding of orphan's pensions, of children who in the future can be protected by the administration; the immediate reimbursement of all amounts held unlawfully by the Generalitat, even before 2017; and then a third axis that was fundamental, which was: "And in the event that it is again the non-compliance Generalitat of that return – which we would not be surprised – that the task on the part of the legislator, the judiciary, is facilitated so that, if that ends in the courts, a judge can have tools to restore and repair the damage caused by the administration." Because, in the end, this is the last resort, that of the courts, so that minors, already of adult age, can obtain protection from the abuse to which they have been subjected for years, in a situation of maximum vulnerability, without axis, without support and without family structure that counsels and watches over their interests. That way, you can not only restore the economic damage caused, but also the lost dignity with that attitude that you had. Obviously, it has already been said since this Faristol and I am not going to add more qualifiers to the situation, but I think that the communicative effervescence that has occurred between the different opposition groups and also the Government, late but well, I think it has to give positive results and allow this proposed law to be passed and not to re-exempt ridiculous arguments of a technical nature in order not to remedy that abuse that, I said the other day, seemed almost criminal to us, but that in any case it has a remedy with only one element, the vote, and the second, the political will to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.134.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi's Member of Parliament has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.135.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, today is one of those days when we can be proud, because we are going to repair a great injustice. The way to get here has been long and difficult, but we can be proud of having reached an agreement that will benefit the most vulnerable among the vulnerable, orphaned children who had lost their entire family and also their orphaned pensions. Briefly, in 2010, the Children's Rights and Opportunities Act was adopted; in 2012, the government of Artur Mas, immersed in a policy of wild cuts, decided to take over the pensions of the orphans who were under his guardianship and to keep them as payment for the service they received. He did so by issuing an instruction that violated the right of these minors to receive their pensions upon reaching the age of majority. Since then, there have been several attempts by various political forces to reverse this injustice so that the Government will no longer appropriate orphan's pensions. In 2013, as I recalled the other day, the People's Party tried it with a motion for a resolution; in 2016, we tried it from Citizens in the general policy debate. That same year, too, the Socialist Party attempted to do so with a proposal for a law that fell. In 2017, the CUP took one more step, via the accompanying law, as it agreed in the budgets, but was subject to a regulatory development that never arrived. And that is how we arrived at the beginning of this year, when my parliamentary group decided to table this bill so that the Generalitat would stop taking the pensions without having to entrust itself to a regulation that we were still waiting for the Government to draw up and we decided to raise the bet and establish by law that the orphans would be returned to the last cent that had been stolen from them during these years. That is why this law was so important, because it introduced the novelty of repairing the damage caused, returning to them money that should never have been taken away from them and also returning the dignity to the Generalitat, which should never have touched a single euro of these pensions. Two months after the introduction of this law, the first question was resolved through the law accompanying the budgets, which was that the Generalitat would stop handing over orphan's pensions, but the second, which was the return of benefits from all these years ago, was still pending. It is an honour for me to have been able to bring this law forward with the cooperation and support of all parliamentary groups. I would like to thank the Members with whom we have been working so hard these days to reach different transactions: Esperanza García, Vidal Aragonés, Raúl Moreno, Conchi Abellán, also Marta Ribas, Marta Vilalta. Also the lawyers and the staff of the parliamentary groups, who have done their best to find the best way to carry this out. With each of the groups, we have been able to agree on different aspects of the law. On the one hand, we have been able to negotiate with the People's Party, the Socialist Party, the Republican Left and Junts per Catalunya the formula of the retroactivity of the return of pensions since 2017, which was when the seventh additional provision of the Children's Act was first amended. With Comú Puem, we have negotiated another amendment, because we share and we are very clear that retroactivity also has to be applied since that infamous instruction was issued, which has always been contrary to the rights set forth in the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, which are higher standards and therefore must prevail over any other rule of lower rank, as is an instruction of the Government, because that instruction violates fundamental rights, such as the right to equality and the rights of minors who collect, as I have said, the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia. And we, in Citizens, have always made it very clear that if a minor concerned resorted to the Constitutional Court this would most likely have given him the reason. But we believe that this is what Arthur Mas's government played with, because what less, in those terrible circumstances of having lost his whole family, being orphaned, would have the means to be able to resort to a court of law? If this transaction is approved, it will no longer be necessary. And finally, with Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, we were able to make amendments to harmonize the law, because after so many retouchings there were different additional repetitive provisions. Last Tuesday some parliamentary groups said that this law was not necessary, that it was all settled. In the end, the transactions that we have reached with some of them prove that this law was necessary, because what contributes is the return of those pensions. The novelty of this law is that it includes reparation for damage. I think there's going to be a good law if we can get through all the transactions made with the different groups. I think it's always good news for citizens when we all get to agree on measures that mean an improvement in people's lives – that's how I understand what useful politics is. It has not been easy, as I said at the beginning – moreover, we have had the hangicap to go counterclockwise – but I think it was worth the effort, to process this law by one reading, because it was something as simple as correcting an error that should never have been made, and something as urgent as repairing an injustice that had lasted too many years: eight years, no more or less. We're gonna get out of here today having done our duty. As representatives of Catalan society we had a duty to settle that debt that the Generalitat of Catalonia had with the orphans, and with this law it begins, it lays the first stone to settle that debt. I believe that this also has to be a lesson so that, as the rule of the rule, the rights of the most destitute may not be again laminated. I would like this to serve as an example of what is never to be done in a crisis, which is to make it pay to the most vulnerable. Furthermore, I believe that this law comes at the right time so that those who have to manage this health, social and economic crisis that Covid has left us take note of what should never be done. And from Citizens we will ensure that this is not repeated. I would like to conclude by expressing my satisfaction and that of my parliamentary group, because today we close a sad chapter in history by repairing it; proud of having promoted a law that will return to its legitimate owners an orphan's pension that should never have been taken away from them; grateful for the collaboration of all parliamentary groups, and committed to ensuring that this law is complied with and that never, ever, ever again a episode like this will be repeated. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.137.0	Many thanks, President; many thanks, Members, Members, Councillor. Allow me to make a statement related to the previous point – I take this request. They spoke before the media, and even so the comment was made that a trial is the last guarantee of our system. And I ask myself: and when justice does politics, when justice is the executioner arm of revenge, as we see in the general cause against independence that we suffer every day? When justice is used with revenge justice disappears. And that's why today we want to show the whole support of President Carme Forcadell, who has been violated again, who is being violated again, her rights, just when she, from this chamber, allowed everyone to express what she wanted, and she was allowed to talk about everything and prevent this Parliament from being a censor organ. That is why we will never tire of asking, therefore, for amnesty, and, therefore, for freedom and for the sake of this general cause against the independence that exists. Moving on to the subject we are dealing with, so today, and which the companies and companies have already presented, we make this second part of the debate on the proposed law of the exemption of co-payment to the minor orphans under guardianship for the Administration. And, indeed, from the Republican Group, as a group that we support the Government, we share the object and the object of being able to express a situation of injustice, a situation that was unfair, and, therefore, we want to refer from here, from this Farostol, from the Parliament of Catalonia, the compromise, also from the Government, as it has always been, because 2017 was already made advances through the law of measures to address this situation, or, without going any further, so it was also the Government, through this chamber, and, in fact, this point, for the most part, unanimously approved that this could be reversed, and, therefore, that people would be exempt from these thoughts. I also gave a direct answer to the Member of the People's Party, Mrs García, who said: "How could this have happened? Here, well, it could have been because of an instruction from the year 2012, where, then, the Government of the Generality was the Government of Convergence and Union supported by the People's Party. Therefore, if at that time it was possible, it was also thanks to his collaboration. So I gave them the commitment of the government and this chamber to be able to address this injustice. And if it's true that we were against the one-reading process, because we believe that it adds a stress, and many times, at the last hour, some negotiations that many times would be nice to do calmly... It's true, therefore, that we have been able to do it, we have been able to do it, we have been able to be negotiating, even though it was counter-rolling, and to get to some transactions. And, therefore, I too, from here, would like to thank, above all, the proposed group, Mrs Naomi de la Calle and the rest of the Members of Parliament, who have made it possible to agree, and I believe that a regulation is in place, a law which enables us to fulfil this double objective: for a band, the first, which is precisely to reiterate that the law of measures of this year, of the year 2020, already says: "Exempt that the thought of orphaning must go to contribute to the attention of these young people, of these children, and, therefore, to rearrange this additional provision of the Law of the LDOIA and remain in coherence. From here, therefore, the first of the transactions, which we have also signed, like our parliamentary group, and which I believe is to close this agreement that I am exempt from this thought. The second question – and indeed it is also of justice – is how this can be reversed. And, therefore, we are also pleased to have been able to add to this transaction, that what makes it possible is to find this proper mechanism so that there is this return, this refund of this money to the people since 2017, when the law of measures was approved that led to that 2012 instruction, that because there was no regulation, it was not possible to complete or make that change in the regulations. Therefore, it is possible to instruct the Government to find this appropriate mechanism to effect this full re-entry of benefits and pensions to persons who since the year 2017 have had a right and have not been so at this last time. The band of these two questions that for us are the most important and that if this law is approved as we think it will be approved this will be able to pull forward, I also want to make a point about some of the other articles in which it was not possible for us to reach an agreement. For a band, this new article 3 on reparation to affected people since the 2012 instruction. We, at this point, can't give support because there are a lot of legal questions about how this can be done, about how this period 2012-2017 can be recovered. This does not prevent us from trying to work there, but at this point in time, as it is written and taking into account that this is a law, it would not be honest for us to vote in favour of a question that is legally very dubious, and that is what the very legal services of the departments and the Government say as far as possible, so that, obviously, they always open up to finding the necessary mechanisms. And there is one last subject, the presuppositional issue, where we keep alive one of the issues that we have presented from the Republican Left and from the Junts for Catalonia on when the part comes into force... This law, which has a presuppositional impact. And in this sense, what we want to make clear is that this law will come into force, obviously, the day after it has been approved, but that those questions that have a presuppositionary affectation not only follow... The presuppositionary exercise follows the following, but make an incisor that follows when we have a new presupposition approved for just being able to collect, in this new presupposition, the necessary presuppositionary assignments because this is a reality and not just a toast to the sun. We think this morning is important. We would invite the rest of the groups of this chamber to be able to vote in favour of it and, therefore, to have it as close as possible in this article to this final arrangement with this matter so as to have a new approved assumption, not just a new fiscal exercise. I ended, therefore, by affirming and thanking the rest of the Members and Members for their willingness and opportunity to reach these agreements and by confirming, as I said, the compromise of the parliamentary group to which I now represent, the Republican Parliamentary Group, and the groups that we support the Government and, therefore, the proper Government, of the compromise of being able to work for the childhood, for the young people of our country and to move forward in overcoming the injustices that still exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.138.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Montserrat Macià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.139.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, from the outset, I want to get my support and that of my parliamentary group to President Carme Forcadell and all political prisoners, as well as to the previous Bureau of Parliament and also to our companion Laura Borràs, because they continue to feel recipients of the resales of the structures of the Spanish State. From here, our record and embrace. ( Some applause.) The other day, my intervention in the debate on this bill ended with a sentence from the founder of Save the Children who sent us back to hope and said that every generation of children gives us the opportunity to change the world. And today, if it's all right, I think we're going to take a step forward to improve one more xic this world, to improve the life of a collector, to advance in the rights of minors and to advance in the best interests of infants. A definite step, because we already give the other day that sometimes the system has resistance and until now, despite the modifications, they have not resolved as appropriate. We have the opportunity to resolve a situation that this proposed on Tuesday all parliamentary groups saw the future that was unfair and discriminatory. An opportunity that I believe that no group has taken advantage of to judge for the papers presented, for the self-exams made by the proposing group and for the transactions between the groups that will certainly improve the initial text. I would like to point out that many of the papers presented have been drafted in a thoughtful, responsible and sensitivistic manner, which has helped to find the necessary consensus between the parliamentary groups. The negotiation and the consensus is always the practice that allows us to move forward, if not the only one, and the agreed drafts and transactions so clearly because they would certainly end up with an irregularity of years that the system had not been able to resolve as appropriate, nor the 2012 instruction that, Mrs. De la Calle, applied to what the generator of the anomaly, which was the Law 14/2010, approved in the government of President Montilla. The instruction of 2012 which ugly was that it was derived directly from what it had of law of 2010. And, to this band, the modification of the law of 2017 that replaced with a regulatory development and that didn't cost much to arrive. The disposition of the 2020 law of this proposed month of May improved its efficiency, of course, but now and today we will overcome this better and resolve a question that a society that is fair, equal and equitable cannot afford, that is the impact of the benefits and the non-return of these, affected since 2017. Surely among all of us we will correct that irregularity and with the will to arrive at agreements we will have the best of ourselves, because childhood always gives us opportunities to get the best of us. For what it does to the items we have proposed, and not to repeat the arguments of Mrs Vilalta, tell them that, in relation to exempting payment, it is a question that as it cannot otherwise be we are absolutely in agreement; we proposed to delete the reference of social security for what it does to the destination and the import of benefits. It is clear that they have a headline, that they are the youngest, etcetera. I will not go into the issue of the papers, but tell them that we are happy, very happy, with the transaction with the proposing group, and I thank the lady of the street, therefore, the good will, and also with the Group Republicà, for the single article of the PR, which will now become the number 1 point and which specifies that "the smallest orphans who benefit from a benefit or are thought to be exempt from paying the expenses arising from their care. For what it does to retroactivity, so that our parliamentary group understands that ethically and morally it should correspond to return the total import of the benefits from which they were affected, legally and economically it seemed very difficult to do so. The submission we understand is not the solution that we would have wanted, but it is clear that it is the most possible, and we hope that the transaction that we have reached between the five groups of this chamber, which we appreciate, and which relates to establishing the proper mechanism to effect the full reimbursement of benefits or pensions of retained and non-rebated persons from the entry into force of Law 5/2017, can resolve if it ends with an unfair situation. And return – and return – to the law of 2010 the values that inspired: the best interest of the infant; the right of all the lesser people to receive the full attention necessary for the development of their personality and their well-being, and the opportunities like us that must allow the infants to their full development as citizens. The foster child, on reaching adulthood, must be able to turn his gaze and see his childhood as large windows of open opportunity for the government of his country. They'll agree with me that when we're young, they'll spend a few years with the brogy of adulthood that you don't look back, and little by little you lose sight of the infanthood. Above a moment that, suddenly, and without knowing well how or why, childhood is represented with all its misery and all its greatness, and with all the warmth of the senses: smells, tastes, textures, landscapes, tears, pores, insecurities and uncertainties, but also the occupation, also the characterizations, also the affections and the love rejections. And you're aware that the one you left behind, the one that determined you and did it is your country. If, as Rainer Maria Rilke said, "the fatherland is the infantess, today, of course, we have a small degree of sand so that the fear of memory of many of our foster children, of the fear of the occupation, of their fatherland and of the system, of the systems and structures that we all have endowed and are building at a moment's notice. This is clearly the country that today gives thanks to all the groups that have made the transactions possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To position himself, finally the word the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.141.0	How much harm the government has done to the better! Maybe decades will pass until we've just seen all the landscape they left behind. And yet some and some want to take their heads off. And they'll come back, and that'll make us see what kind of political project they've got some and some. Mirin, with a purely technical description: we have no sympathy for the tripartite, nor for President Montilla, but the origin of what we are discussing today is not in 2010, more than after there is a development of an instruction. It's in the instruction, like at least. And, therefore, it seemed to us that it was a waste to be able to translate this characterization of one's problem. Second part. We, like CUP, have a clear approach to the question that can be explained by two formulas or by two expressions. The first is that care for children must be public and free, and therefore, in this case, if there is someone who has decided that the benefits or pensions of the children who are cared for in the public system under guardianship could not include them afterwards, obviously they were not free of the benefits they were giving. The attention was not free and, therefore, breaks a principle that for us is absolutely essential. And the second also for a matter of time. What we read is the best time for children and children to have access to these benefits and pensions. Therefore, not during the time when they are under the protection of the Catalan Administration, because it must be the Catalan Administration that has these tickets, in the sense of controlling them, and who guarantees them a dignified life, but at the first moment when they cease to be under their protection. This is the most important moment and, therefore, at that time the benefit package and the pension package are also, to a good extent, a way out of what the Catalonian Government is practically not covering. We do not want to forget clearly that there is a certain performance, but that it is absolutely insufficient and therefore also relates to what is the purpose of the institution, which is to protect the minor or the minor, but also with a view to their quality life in a future, not only in the present. The discussion of what the normal change that we are proposing today means. Look, it's been moving forward before, it's been said for other carriers, and we're not gonna get along. Different groups of different political sensitivities have tried in many moments and, therefore, what we recommend is that we also have a problem that is not only of political character, but of technical character, certainly. But one thing is that we have a technical problem and another is that someone wants to interpret that it can't be solved. From what we will approve today – and then I will refer to what we can end up approving, because we do not just know it, we imagine – there are two realities: a first that would come between 2012 and 2017, and that, at the interpretation of this parliamentary subgroup, it would have to be resolved; it would have to be resolved. I'm sorry, the one from 2017 to now should be resolved. But there is another situation, which is the one between 2012 and 2017, which will certainly not be resolved. And we also want to bring resolution to this. It was so complex or so simple that the same Administration did an act in which it said whether it recognized for the period 2012-2017 that the law, the regulations, the instruction allowed the perception of these benefits or of these pensions, or not. And, therefore, to determine two different areas and two different realities: one in which the Administration recognizes that it was not complete, and administrative resolutions can be made of offices and will not be extemporaneous, and another in which if the Administration tells us that it interprets that the regulations at that time did not allow it, so what we have to do is regular because there is a retroactive effect, that from a legal and economic point of view is possible. Another thing is where we set priorities. Still, and said all this, we want to thank both the group proposing as the government groups, and other groups that have also participated very actively in the regulatory change, which we have advanced, but also to point out that we can find results from the votes or, more than from the votes, from the results of the votes that we will have in relation to the normal change of today for this matter, with a Frankenstein. And I think they'll hear me from the example I'm setting. I mean, I could get some vote out – I think it won't pass, but it could pass – that, for the reordering of the papers and how we vote in this Parliament, so there's an approval of a law that might not have a sense of absolute coherence. We believe from this group that it will not pass, but that it does not mean that we cannot pass and therefore, also, set ourselves up until certain point how we also direct the votes that we make above all for the law, because also after so much talking about this and debate, I would not feel that in the end we adopt a regulation that can be contradictory in itself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. After this debate, I would like to suggest that, as in the rest, we will vote once and for all on the points of the order of the day. [[Draft law on the restoration of the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Catalan Institute of Health and proposed law on the public service for oral health and the creation of the Children's Dental Care Programme in Catalonia (debate on the delegation of full legislative competence)]] [[200-00008/12 and 202-00040/12]] Let us turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate on the request for delegation to the Health Commission of the full legislative competence for the Law Project to restore the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Catalan Institute of Health and the Law Proposal of the Public Service for Oral Health and the Creation of the Children's Dental Care Program in Catalonia. According to Rule 136 of the Rules, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Socialist Parliamentary Group Units per Avançar, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia In Comú Pode, and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia called for the delegation to the Health Commission of full legislative competence in relation to the two legislative initiatives outlined. The plenary will debate this request for delegation of the commission in a single debate, the two requests in a single debate, as agreed to the Board of Spokespersons with all groups and subgroups. And to defend this delegation, of the two, they'll have a three-minute time each of the spokespersons. We begin, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, with Mr Jorge Soler. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.143.0	Well, good afternoon, Mr. President. Deputys the deputies. And I greet you as usual, Chief Counselor, because they're not there. (Founding voice) It's important, it's important to approve the pay of health workers, it's important that we shield this pay for you. Well, from Ciutadans we believe that it's not only important, it's urgent, it's essential and it's undoubtedly necessary. And that's why we're today making this debate, because at the time of the city we asked, we took it to the program, we demanded every time that there was a presumption, we included every time that there was a general policy debate, including urgency, the need for health workers to be able to collect 100 percent of that retailed, plumbed, long-runned pay, and that if it was important before the time of the coronavirus, we think it's morally undisputed that these workers should be able to secure 100 percent of the GDP when they work and when they do so, and so long as they don't have to be patient every year. And that's exactly why we find ourselves in this motion, the reason for passing it on to the law was that every year we saw that it was up to us to govern and, therefore, to include these agreements among the assumptions. And therefore, I believe that with certainty, the opposition has succeeded in getting this to be done through you and I believe that with certainty we have succeeded in so much opposition... and in this sense I believe that I should especially like to thank Mrs Espigares, representing the formations that support the Government, that we have reached an agreement. And that is essential, because thanks to this agreement, if we can get this agreement approved in this Parliament, the health workers, even though the legislature is over... they can see it as such. And that's why we're here. The drums of the elections unfortunately repeat, even though we are seeing the cues at the hospital, the primary attention, the hospital tickets and everything that is coming back. So there are formations that are fighting every day, breaking through the drums of the elections, to call elections. Therefore, if the urgency was that the DPO is able to collect, it is essential that this is approved before someone has to call elections and leave the health workers again without charging. Therefore, by taking the use of the Rules, taking this formality that allows thanks to the consent we can transfer this to the Commission and to approve it, from Citizens we understand that this priority, that this urgency is inescapable and we accept it. And finally, in the short time that we have to substantiate the two-law proceedings, the same serves us, Mr. President, so to try and do so with oral health. If it's a law that's agreed and that's reached a transactional point that's practically 100_percent of the formations of this hemisphere, we understand that this import is equally useful to guarantee it. Therefore, wishing that this was approved by the Health Commission and aggravating the work done by the different speakers of these two laws, so let us instead see the committee and approve them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.144.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialists Units for Forward Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Assumpta Escarp has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.145.0	Thank you. How... do I think he's already expressed himself, right? It is raised at this point that according to Rule 136 of the Rules of Procedure is delegated to the Health Commission which acts as the full legislative committee, and debate and approve, if necessary, these two bills of law. I believe that all the signatory groups know that it is an unusual mechanism, but it is a mechanism perfectly reflected in the Rules of Parliament, and what it does is to reflect their demand to the uncertainty of the continuity or not of this legislature. It's a doubt that we have in mind, that only, I suppose, could solve the president of the generality assuming he knows, but he didn't solve it. And, therefore, after the work of the two ponences, we believe that the best is that these two projects of you can be addressed in this session period. It is worth saying that the work on the stand is not only of the groups that sign this demand, but also of all the groups, which, moreover, has worked in a consensual way and in order to try to reach a consensus. I want to thank the two speakers, Congresswoman Ribas and Congressman Solé, the winners, the impulse and the power-to-do. It must also be said that this is a dynamic of the Health Commission that I would like not to be lost. It is also true, and it seems to me that Mr Solé has said, that, for what he does to the bill establishing the productivity complement, it is more than justified that it is possible to approve in this sessional period. It was a law decree presented for the government that through the lawsuit has passed to bill. It has to be said that its initial processing was not easy, we had to ask even the Bureau of Parliament to help us advance its processing. They've always been caught. But in any case, it is not just a decree that passed to the law, but this very week, that we were discussing here about recognition to and professionals, we believe that part of this recognition forms the recovery of a lost right, and if a right had been lost is the right to the collection of objects, it must be said that it was a good part of its subs. Therefore, I believe that professionals should be charged, that they should have the DPO insured by law and that they should also extend it to the professionals of the Siscat. For what it does to the oral law, I think it seems to me that we have said it several times during the discussion in the ponència, we always talk about universal salvation, and in the end it seems to us that our citizens do not have mouths, and, in turn, oral salvation forms part of the salvation of people. The work has been done and it has been completed, it has reached a broad consensus and we thought that..., it is a law that has a direct benefit to the citizenry and that, therefore, it is worth taking advantage of this mechanism that exists, which is perfectly provided for in the Rules of Parliament. And let's hope that the next commission, so I can approve these two bills of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.146.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, you have the paragraph deputy Ms Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.147.0	We will be repeated and repeated today, but we will come back, what we are debating today and voting from here is asking that the plenary delegate the full legislative capacity in the Health Commission to be able to complete the processing of two laws: of a band, the law of the PODs, of the complement per productivity, or continue to shield for it this important part of the sum of the sanitary that had been spread, and the law of oral salvation, that what they claim..., in this case it is a proposal of law that we introduced our parliamentary group which, therefore, want to deploy a right, the right to attention in oral health from the public health system in a universal and free way for everyone. Therefore, a new service, a new right and a new program in oral health. The two have already closed the work in ponència. The two have been working for more than a year, they are about to publish or publish the reports of the two surveys, and if we follow the usual process of processing, they will be debated and voted on on their own days in committee and pending, then, to a ple. In both cases, it has also been said, there are reports of money being stored with transactions by the vast majority of parliamentary groups. Faced with the uncertainty of a possible electoral advance, which could leave us without the possibility of approving them just at the door of this step, various parliamentary groups, therefore, we have registered this proposal, of an option that is provided for in our Rules, Articles 136 and 137, which is that the plenary delegate to a committee the approval of drafts and proposals of law acting in its full legislative form. This will, therefore, allow the Health Committee to have the debate and final vote on these two laws scheduled for the next week. It is a procedure little used in the Parliament of Catalonia, very common in other chambers, absolutely common in the Congress of Deputies, for example, but not for a few regulations: the Regulation clearly says that it can be used. That it hasn't been used doesn't mean we can't use the parliamentary groups, and I think the case, right? Both cases are worth it. I hope you have everyone's support, this delegation to the Commission. And it is clear that they will have the support..., a majority support the two laws, because the two are very necessary at a time like the current one in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.149.0	Thank you, President. We are ahead of the final plenary of the session and, probably – there is no certainty in this case – but also the final plenary of the legislature; perhaps not, but it is a possibility. In any case, we are ahead of two laws, that of the pay complement of the health personnel and that of the oral health, which bear enough time in process, many sessions of poencies and many discussions. And the two of them... the Bill and the Bill's Proposal, the two of them, the two legislative initiatives are over. The pay complement is over, let's just say, more solidly; the oral salvation one, surely, still went a little fairer, but they are finished. Therefore, it would be a great effort that has been made by the assembly of parliamentary groups to see the end of the legislature and these laws do not end in the light or end in the Official Diary of the Generality of Catalonia. Therefore, we considered it opportune to share with the groups that have just preceded me the opportunity to make use of this regulatory authority, which is the delegation to the Health Commission so that the remaining procedures to these two laws can be completed, so that they can be approved and, therefore, can enter into force. So, the fact that... I want to make it clear, too, right? The fact that we bet that it is the Health Commission that can finish these proceedings does not necessarily mean a predisposition to show the position with respect to the two laws. We are very clear about pay complements, and we already made it clear when, with the processing of a government law decree, we needed to demand precisely the processing as a bill so that we could strengthen the guarantee of these pay complements through a law and, therefore, we have very clear who our position is to respect. And we have doubts about the oral health bill project. But, in any case, what we don't find opportune is to deny that it is the Health Commission that can finish approving this..., or to approve or not to approve these legislative initiatives in which it has been working all this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to position himself, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.151.0	So 136 is absolutely usable for this assumption. Actually, it's and we're ahead of a reality that would surely be thought of for this. And, therefore, it is a purely political discussion, whether or not we want to resolve this now. And we are already saying that, obviously, the feeling of our vote will be yes. And we wanted to incorporate another reflection. We always listen very carefully to the distinguished Member Pedret, we do not agree with him with the characterization he made of whom he supported or who he did not support. But, look, ask the spokesman of the groups that today have made this request from the delegate and they will expressly tell them that if there is a delegation, it will be because the CUP will vote in favour of it. They can tell, because they have obviously proposed it, but because we will vote for it. And what that means is that the CUP, when you're able to win rights, is there, not for other issues. And it's the same with one another or with the other if it's to go straight. And this will be the reality of today, and that is why we will vote for it. Because we have two laws that can be solved. The first one, which makes reference, in any case, to which we call the mouthpiece; it has a definition of a little more extensive, which we also have to say that the government has already passed the ribot and, therefore, of what it was initially to which it will end, therefore, will advance a little, but has nothing to see with what it was in the origin. But it is minimal progress and we will vote in favour of it being resolved in the commission delegated to Salut and also by the majority of which it is planted as contained. And the second, which is the one that refers to the DPO, to the pay complements, that we will not only vote in favour of what the majority of groups are proposing, but we have made a total of five points about the conjunction of the norm and we can not only discuss whether it is the cent_per_cent, which we also raise, not that it is only the workers and workers of the ICS, but also those who make public sanitation through private management. And lastly, I think it's the difference in relation to the rest of the elements that have been incorporated into this regulatory change, that can incorporate what today is a variable-character pay complement into a supplement or, more accurately, a fixed and stable pay concept. For a simple matter: because we think that it is not the function that has been given to the observation of the waste variables, it does not serve absolutely for nothing, it is a bureaucratic process and because we do not believe that public health is to be observed from a point of view of workers and workers as to percentages of results. The result has already been credited, that it is their professionalism and, therefore, they have the right to consolidate it absolutely, not as a variable complement, but as a fixed and incorporated remuneration concept and that, moreover, it can be revalued and that it is neither compensable nor absorbable. And, finally, simply a greeting for Sanitàries in Lluita, which at this time is at the door of Parliament and which are giving us an example of what it is to fight for public sanitation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.153.0	Thank you, President, from the escó. We will not oppose this parliamentary process, but we will not support it, especially for three reasons. Because there has been talk of importance here, and we share it, there are two very important laws, and that is why we in the Republican Left will vote in favour of the contents, and then I will explain it in more detail. But, therefore, so important is..., what we understand is that it should be like all the laws that we approve in this Parliament: founded precisely in this Chamber, as when there is a law, which, in fact, is the most important activity of this Parliament. The second reason is because it was said that it was a law that was urgent, and we also share this urgency, but it does not coincide that it is urgent with the time we have spent since we validated the government decree, because that initially, in the case of the DPO, go to the government, until we started to substantiate them. And the third element that's been discussed is that these two laws are already finished. And I'd like to make it clear that there's a deal, that it's what we're talking about all the time at DPO, that it's true that all the groups have negotiated it, that we've signed it, and that it's ready to be substantiated to the committee and later to be able to talk about those technical parts, if that's the case, that have to be adjusted. But there is one other, which is oral, that we share the content again, and so we negotiated it with the proposing group, but it's not finished, that a few minutes ago we got an email still with a new change. So that the rush doesn't betray us, and it's just as important as the content, it's just as important as the way we get there. Therefore, I would like you to make it clear that it is not a contingencies issue, that the day we vote on the contingencies we will give support to all two laws, but it is also a matter of forms and, in this sense, we will not give support, nor will we object to this being done in a committee to not lose its importance either.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Josep Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.155.0	Thank you. Very briefly, because in principle it didn't touch me. Precisely speaking of unusual and exceptional things, which should be here right now in these moments talking would be Congressman Lluís Guinó, but he's close from here I'm being judged for working up here. On the hypothetical electoral advance, it is also, of course, easy to make figures knowing the interferences that have occurred during this entire legislature of the judiciary, and in this case it would be the Supreme who would end up calling the elections. We're not in the state of the pandemic, because the government, by responsibility, while the pandemic required your attention, prefers to continue. Mrs Espigares has said this: it is not a matter of content – the content, as far as I know, I have sometimes also been substituted in Lluís Guinó, for the same reasons I said before that today is not here – there are two laws in which we are in favour, which came to a wider consensus in the case of oral health – that of PODs, obviously, we share. And we just don't share shapes, do we? We don't think it's right to do so, it's not right for two laws like these, because I've already said what they're based on. And we believe, this, that we... that it was not convenient. We will also abstain, so as not to stifle a majority of the chamber. And also, precisely for this very reason, remember that other times, according to what has been done in this room, some have put the crit to the cell and much more than that. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. [[Pause.]] Meanwhile, I remind Members and Members that they have to vote in their assigned place, because, if not, then the system won't work, huh? [[Long break.]] Yes; last-minute changes were made I think in some of the sayings, and they were just clearing it up and bringing us the telematic vote. Wait. [[Long break.]] Silence, deputies. [[Long break.]] All right. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... [[Pause.]] Let's get to the polls. [[Seeing the background and pause.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into security policies (continuation)]] [[302-0022/12]] All right. We begin by voting point 20, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into security policies. I'm listening to the separate voting petitions, we're voting, first of all, point 8 and point 9 of this motion. The vote begins. These two points have been approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the strategy to guarantee the right to housing (continuation)]] [[302-0023/12]] We are now voting for the twenty-first point, which is in response to the question to the Government about the strategy to guarantee the right to housing. Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes to 40, with no abstentions. And now we're voting point number two. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. And now we're voting points 4 and 8. The vote begins. These two points were approved by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. And now we're voting point number five. The vote begins. It was approved by 77 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point was approved by 94 votes to 40, with no abstentions. We're voting for the seven of this young man now. Start voting. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting for the new point now. The vote begins. It was approved by 29 votes to 4, with 101 abstentions. We're voting 10 and 11 points now. The vote begins. It was approved by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. And we're voting now on the announcement and the letter to point 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. And now we're voting point 12, letter b. The vote begins. It was approved by 29 votes to 40, with 65 abstentions. And we're voting now on the tretze point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. He turned it down. Yeah, yeah. I've said it wrong. Excuse me. Effectively. Now, yes, let's vote point number 13. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes to 40, with no abstentions. We're voting for the 14th point now. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting point 15 now, the letter to. The vote begins. It was rejected by 33 votes to 65, with 36 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the 15th. The vote begins. They were rejected by 29 votes in favour, 69 against, 36 abstentions. We're voting 16 and 18 points now. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting for the dissected point now. The vote begins. It was approved by 48 votes to 5, with 81 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into autonomous public communication media (continuation)]] [[302-0024/12]] Let's now vote on the twenty-two of the order of the day, which corresponds to the motion following the question to the Government about the autonomous public communication media. We proceed, following the separate voting petitions, to vote points 1, 4, 5 and 7a– 1, 4, 5 and 7.a. The vote begins. These points have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 69 against and 8 abstentions. And now we're voting points 3 and 7.c. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the effects, reptes and digital opportunities of the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[302-00225/12]] And now we're going to vote on the twenty-three point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the effects, challenges and digital opportunities of the Covid-19 pandemic. Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 36 votes to 69, with 29 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting point three now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 53 votes to 65, with 16 abstentions. And we're voting point four now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 65, with 29 abstentions. We're voting points 13 and 19. The vote begins. At this point there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. So let's just go ahead and vote for it once in a while. The vote begins. The impat was again produced; therefore, 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, we will vote again at the end. Let's now vote points 14 and 18. The vote begins. These points were approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 12 abstentions. Let's just move on to vote on 20. The vote begins. It was approved by 113 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. They voted in favour by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into transparency, democratic control tools and the anti-corruption compromise (continuation)]] [[302-00226/12]] And now we vote on item 24, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into transparency, democratic control tools and the compromise against... [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula, say'm? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.157.0	Now. To arrive and request reading point 4, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.158.0	All right. As long as there's no separate vote from 4, we'll read it just before we do the vote on the rest of the motion, huh? [[Pause.]] We're voting for the first point of this young man. The vote begins. This point was approved by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting points 5.c and 5.f, which include the three underparties, huh? The vote begins. They were approved by 69 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting for the rest of the vote. Before I do, however, I will ask the secretary, Mr. Pérez, to read this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.159.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. Point 4: "Remembers that, in the eleventh point of Resolution 735/XII, on the fight against corruption, demanded some public media copies in this fight. In this march celebrates the broadcast on behalf of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans of the report The virus of the crown, on the alleged corruptions that affect the Royal House, and regrets that the state public communication media have not faced this fer with the same will of exemplarity. It may also be recalled that, at that point, in order to guarantee the mission of public service and the highest level of information, it was also observed that the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation has not programmed any specific content on alleged corruption cases that are the cause of judicial proceedings affecting the President Jordi Pujol, and was taking steps to contextualize the information and provide elements of justice to the citizenry on the various scandals of alleged corruption affecting it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.160.0	Thank you, secretaries. Let us then proceed to vote on this point and the rest of the points remaining to vote on this motion. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 57, with no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into general policy and country priorities (continuation)]] [[302-00227/12]] And now we vote on point 25, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the country's general policy and priorities. Let's vote first place point number one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 105 against and 17 abstentions. And now we're voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 94 votes to 40, with no abstentions. [[Draft law amending the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the obligation of the previous session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and amending Law 15/2009 of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law (continuation)]] [[200-00013/12]] We're done voting on the motions. Therefore, we proceed to the vote of the Law on the modification of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the obligation of the pre-session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and to the amendment of Law 15/2009, of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law. We are voting, first of all, on the papers submitted for parliamentary groups that have not been the object of compromise for the groups and, finally, we will vote on the compromise papers. In the first place, we shall vote on points 3, 8, 10, 12, 15 and 17, tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 40 votes to 94, with no abstentions. Let's now vote points 6 and 7..., the papers, forgive me, 6 and 7, presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. [[Someone sneezes.]] Hey! These items were rejected by 61 votes to 73, with no abstentions. And now we are voting on item 16, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. At this point, there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. So, re-vote him. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. Let's now vote on the number one... Pardon me, item 18, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Esmena number 18. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The Emena number 18, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. There was a tie: 57 votes in favour, 57 against – correspondents to 34 face-to-face and delegates and 23 telematics – 4 abstentions. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak.]] Yes; wait's. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.161.0	Right now. I'm sorry, President, but we didn't vote. And, as in other circumstances, very similar situations have been given and we have been... so, we have had a very loose interpretation and we have accepted it, I would ask that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.162.0	Go back to voting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.163.0	...there's this attitude.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.164.0	We vote for Emena 18, which I made clear. [[Voice remorse and pause.]] Listen, we've voted the 16th, earlier, that there's been a tie; we've re-voted and this tie has been unwrapped in the line of rejecting the tie. Let's now vote for number 18. Yeah? [[Pause.]] We vote for Emena number 18. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. We are now voting on the papers submitted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, which are 1, 2, 4 and 9. The vote begins. They voted unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on items 5, 11 and 14. The vote begins. They also voted unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we vote on item 13, signed for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on item 19, signed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we are voting now, finally, the joint initiative. The vote begins. The vote of the Project to modify the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the establishment of the obligation of the previous session on mediation in certain family conflicts, and to amend the Law 15/2009, of 22 July, on mediation in the field of private law..., has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstention. [[Proposed law on the exemption of co-payment to minor orphans under guardianship for the administration and amendment of Law 14/2010, on the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence (continuation)]] [[202-00070/12]] Let's now vote on the Bill's proposal for the exemption of co-payment to minor orphans under guardianship for the administration and amendment of Law 14/2010, of the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence. We shall vote, first of all, on the reports presented to the parliamentary groups and then, finally, on the compromises. I'm guessing transactional item number 17 has been removed. We vote for Emena number 11. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on items 12, 13 and 14. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 16. The vote begins. In this debate there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. So let's go back to voting... a second time. The vote begins. The vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. Therefore, we will vote in the end, opening an extraordinary voting period to undo the empire. We now vote on transactional item 5, signed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we vote on transactional issue number 8, signed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on transactional issue number 9, signed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. The vote begins. There was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against, 4 abstentions. So, we vote a second time. The vote begins. The same coat has been produced again. Therefore, we will vote for it at the end, too. We are voting now for the rest of the initiative. Put your vote on. The vote begins. The proposed law on the exemption of co-payment to minor orphans under guardianship for the Administration and on the amendment of Law 14/2010, on the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Draft law restoring the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Institut Català de la Salut (debate of delegation of full legislative competence) (continuation)]] [[200-00008/12]] We now vote on the request for delegation to the Health Commission of the full legislative competence for the Law Project to restore the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Català de la Salut Institute. We're voting for the delegation. The vote begins. The delegation was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. [[Proposal for the law of the public service for oral health and for the creation of the Children's Dental Care Programme in Catalonia (debate of delegation of full legislative competence) (continuation)]] [[202-00040/12]] And we now vote on the request for delegation to the Health Commission of the full legislative competence of the proposed law of the public service for oral health and the creation of the Children's Dental Care Program in Catalonia. The vote begins. It has also been adopted by 69 votes to 65. We're now opening a two-minute period, a ten-minute period, so we can do the three-point vote – there were three, secretaries-general, huh? [[Funnel veils]] –, the three points in which the emperor took place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-24-5803.165.0	Now the telematic votes will come in. In any case, I recall that the votes in which an empath has taken place and that we will now vote again are the correspondents to point 13 and 19 of the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the effects, the reptes and the digital opportunities pull out of the Pandemic of the Covid-19, which correspond to the twenty-third point of the agenda of the day; the transaction number 9, signed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú May, of the proposed law on the exemption of co-payment to the smallest protected orphans for the administration and of the amendment of Law 14/2010, of the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, and, of this proposal, of this very initiative 16. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. We shall then proceed to the vote when the telematic votes come in. [[Long break.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the effects, reptes and digital opportunities of the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[302-00225/12]] All right. Let's proceed, then, to vote, from the seat corresponding to the twenty-third point of the order of the day, points 13 and 19. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It reproduces the same tie to 65 votes: 65 in favour, 65 against– correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics–, 4 abstentions. Therefore, this point remains rejected. [[Proposed law on the exemption of co-payment to minor orphans under guardianship for the administration and amendment of Law 14/2010, on the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence (continuation)]] [[202-00070/12]] Let's now move to item 16 in the Proposition of Law for the Exemption of Coupling to Minor Orpheres Protected for Administration. The vote begins. The vote was taken again: 65 votes in favour – for 43 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents –, 65 against and 4 abstentions. For this reason, this has also fallen. And let's now vote on transaction number 9, signed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia En Comú Podem, respect the same initiative. The vote begins. This compromise has been approved, as there are 69 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. Now, there are no more points to vote. The session's up. Good look.
