ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. I nail them to the vaginas on their respective escons. Let's start the session. The list of questions is kept in the file, so... they will be substantiating this morning, as provided for in Article 164 of the Rules. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I begin, however, before I follow the order of the day, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately the last 9th died murdered in Lloret de Mar Peggy Nicole, the eleventh victim of rape of a genus in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to eradicating any form of violence against women and to age for its record. On the other hand, in accordance with the dol protocol of the Parliament of Catalonia against masculinist rapes, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls a minute of silence, in suspending the plenary session, today at midday, before the facade of the Palau del Parlament. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Next, and in compliment of what Moció 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, from the beginning of 2020 until now there have been 922 deaths and disappearances to the Mediterranean. So, I'm guessing that this presidency calls a minute of silence to suspend the plenary session tomorrow, at Parliament's honor, for the 480 people offended by the Atlantic Ocean trying to get to the Spanish State, to join the 922 people who have lost their lives to the Mediterranean eagles in which we wear from the year. Let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, which are the questions with oral answer. The first question is about helping self-employed workers. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Isn't it? [[Pause.]] So let's move on to the next question. And if you have time to get there, we'll do it. [[Ask the Government about measures and actions relating to self-employed workers]] [[310-00420/12]] Let us therefore turn to the next question, which is about measures and actions relating to self-employed workers. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Pol Gibert. Come on in, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.2.0	President... good morning, Councillor El Homrani. In Catalonia we have more than 500,000 autonomes, many of them hard hit by the crisis we are experiencing. Since his counseling, two attempts to help these workers have been set aside. The first attempt was harshly criticized by the unions. The second attempt, of known envelopes, has been harshly criticized for unions, employers, communication media and a long list of entities and collections that end up with their governing partners. The most defense we have seen on behalf of his Republican Left compañeros has been a "no one is perfect from Vice President Aragones or the apology of the Republican Left Spokesman Sergi Sabrià. Counselor, how can we ask the workers of this country to trust you if you don't trust their government companies? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, there is the words of the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.4.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councilman... MP, look, certainly last week we got help for the local workers and, at a time of many uncertainties, very complex, we didn't know how to calibrate that he would have an answer like he had. And I think... – I said it last week and I think it's good to say it in your parliament –, I want to say apologies to all the people we've created for you. I also say, always – always – that we have resources we keep the availability of self-employed workers whenever we have resources. And we wanted to get them out the fastest and easiest way to get there. And we'll always do that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.5.0	[[Pause.]] Now. Excuse me. Yeah. When you want, Congressman; again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the Digital Policy Counselor said he knew and told them about it. I mean, don't tell me I didn't know there'd be a bunch of locals asking for help. But, counselor, my question today... was to invite him to reflect on whether he was doing Catalonia and the government a favor, with his management, or not. As I fear that the path of his reflection does not go this way, he left it to rest a few headlines that his management has generated in the past weeks, to locate the state of the problem that we are dealing with. The country was entitled: « The fires of Councillor El Homrani ; La Vanguardia was entitled: « The controversy of El Homrani over teleworking deepens in the chaos of the Government ; Diari Ara was entitled: « The three storms of El Homrani during the pandemic. The editorial of El mundo a RAC1 described his idea of "bombing and sentencing: "The autonomes come to grief and the government. In the editorial of the newspaper Ara where it was asked that you put your job at your disposal is "True to abuse the autonomes. Counselor, how did you manage to turn a help into a desperate race for 500,000 autonomes, competing among them to be one of the lucky two thousand? The way to manage aids, totally unfair. The resources devoted to aid, totally insufficient. After the chaos of the residences, the defaults to social entities, the controversy over the feeding grants, the poor management of guaranteed income, the insecurity that generated with teletreball, and now the frailness of the autonomies, there are many people who want more decisions. Many people depend on their management. And a lot of vulnerable people depend on their abilities. I don't think that's enough for the people who've made their mistakes. Counselor, take a step at the expense of deixi acumulating headlines. When the whole team doesn't work, what they're used to doing is changing coaches...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. Time's up. [[Pause.]] To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.8.0	Thank you. Congressman, we've explained. We're working on a new model. We will continue to use all possible resources to give support to the autonomes. I also remind you that the same week that we are helping the government to collect autonomous quotes increased these quotes. I also remind you that the workers of the province of Barcelona do not cover the performance of the August– all those who have entered. And I remind you of that, because we need to be conscious. And from here, taking responsibility is making decisions. And the first thing I want to say is, thank you very much for the work done for Josep Ginesta and Cesc Iglesias. But it is up to us to strengthen and renew. And that's what we did. Strengthening, separating the scope of the Secretary General and the scope of the Secretary of Work; strengthening the scope of the Secretary of Social Affairs. And what our fellow citizens are asking for right now, in these moments of uncertainty and complexity, is that we dedicate ourselves to working on it. And I'm aware of one thing: you always have to work on a day-to-day basis and with a look in your eyes, but you always have to know that the next day can be over, when you have responsibilities around a collection project. And that's how we work and that's how, with this reinforcement, with this renewal, we want to give answers to our fellow citizens at these very complex times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about help to self-employed workers]] [[310-00418/12]] Now yes, the question about help to self-employed workers, formulated for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem. You have the word to expose it to Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Including the most liberal, the ones who defended austerity the most, you know that now and here is the time to increase public investment to stimulate recovery and to protect the social sectors most hit by the crisis. The government of the state has made an expansive bet, and has decentralized resources and decentralize competitions. The Generality has rejected 1,600_million euros from the Covid fund, and will receive 3,200_million euros. Today they have 900_million euros in surplus; they have 900_million euros in the box and without any objective of deficit or expense to complete, and they have been ashamed to spend 20_million euros, 2_percent of what they have, to rescue the half a million local workers in this country; some help that, in the band of the informative sketch, has only come to one_of_each_two local names that they deserve. They're creating an ampoule between the resources that reach the Generality and those that you intend to deal with the crisis. What's wrong here, Counselor? Your incompetence to generate..., to manage public resources or your economic policy to continue to defend containing the deficit at the cost of abandoning the workers and the peppers of this country? What's the defect object that was marked by Hisenda's advisor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.11.0	To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.12.0	Thank you. If I may, the shame is to push the autonomous quota retroactively at this time. Because if we use these qualifications, we have to place them in all spheres. From here, what we do is use all available resources and use them as quickly as possible. Because what you don't feel is making arrangements for help to the local people and that they will be paid in five or six months. What right do you have, like the performance of the weather, is not being charged by many workers and workers in this country. From here, we have no indication of no expense, but we use everything possible. But what's also important is mechanisms that allow money to come to people with the fast that it takes. And it's in this sense – and I've put it before – that we made a mistake with the model, but that's why we did it, because it's allowed us to solve four thousand of the aids and to pay 2,500. Now we're thinking of another model. Because you have to assume when someone is wrong and you have to assume and look for alternatives to give this answer as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.14.0	Thank you very much, President. You're missing a government of the state that gives you excuses, retails, and centralizes your competitions. They prefer to make a public campaign, saying that the government is offering them, with 900_million euros to the box and without any deficit, to donate their faces before the self-employed workers you've been working on to a shameful gimpane. You always fill the pilots out. His companies, not of government, of party, have withdrawn from him the competitions in residences, I suppose that because of Madrid; they have ceased all the dome of their department, we suppose that because of Madrid. Counselor, when will you assume your responsibility and abandon the cargo? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.15.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.16.0	Mr. Congressman, no, what I don't do is rent out my hands. What I don't do is rent out my hands like the state government does. What I don't do is rent out my hands. And the one who places it: we have made decisions. Because taking responsibility is making decisions. And it's making decisions to reinforce. And it's making decisions because right now, in these moments of uncertainty, in these moments of complexity, what we need to do all the people we have responsibilities in any government is to give the best possible response at this time, and do it and correct it whenever it needs to. What we cannot do is deny the reality, that there are no workers who do not cover the performance of atur. And that's not what we do. We'll take care of it and we'll take care of it. And what... I've said before, always working in the day to day, always with a look at you for years, always aware that you can end the next day, but working for our fellow citizens at this time. And the decisions taken we believe are the best, now, to strengthen this department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the forecasts, the evolution and the prospective in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic in the world of business]] [[310-00424/12]] The next question is about the forecasts, the evolution and the prospective in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic in the world of business. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor, members of the Government, Members and Members, it is a time of responsibility and a time of solidarity. It is time to hear that society and politics must act together; that the toilets, parties and electoralism is not the moment when it is near, but rather that it seeks to generate a chain of responsibility that generates a chain of trust so that it generates a chain of solidarity between society, between politics, between experts and between different sectors. Counselor, at these times the Government of the Generality..., they have seen and announced, yesterday, that there were some data that were positive and that had been working on a re-opening plan. And before this criterion, responsibility and solidarity, it is clear that action must be taken. Everyone knows they have to take action. Because they are necessary, because we have to strike a balance between the economy and life, between guaranteeing salvation and saving life and saving the economy, because they are two cares of the same coin, because we are part of the same system and for this reason we need predictability and predictability to advance to the different scenes. And how we are part of this chain of responsibility – also the government and politics, because the management of the big crises does not just make it a government, the management of the big crises all parliamentary groups, the making society, the fan sectors, the making citizenship – it is necessary to generate trust and it is necessary to create a responsibility that generates solidarity between the different spheres. And that's why the measures have to be consensual, they have to be dialogue and they have to be shared among everyone because it's not time for toilets but it's time for solutions. Because it's not time for politics but it's time to find the best energies and measures that can strengthen society for the next few days. And that's what brings us to the deputies and deputies of this Parliament of Catalonia, and I hope that the control session of the government goes all that way. In his case, as we ask him in the field of business, but also to understand that our responsibility depends on the solidarity of others, on the solidarity of the sectors and the citizenry to hear that these measures are necessary, to hear that the government has to take action because they are necessary. And in this sense, always prioritise the country before any decision on its part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor d'Empresa i Coneixement, the Lord Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.20.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, Vice-President, Members, well, actually the situation we live in is unusual, it's unpublished all over Europe, all over the world. There is a case that has never been seen, a pandemic that spreads very quickly and this government has been a_me, with consensus, decided to close some areas, as other countries have done, restoration, shopping centers, sports centers, etc. Because the idea is, therefore, to protect salvation, which is the supreme good, right? And, therefore, in this sense, the measures that have been taken in the line of drawing pressure on the health system with great sacrifices. And our policy, of all the government, has been completely unfunded. We have done one thing, we have tried to imitate the best practices of the best European countries. Direct help, with our ability and possibilities. The government of the Generalitat does not recover the tax of the great but it is true that we have tried to make a maximum effort. For example, my department this year will donate €219 million in direct aid. The assumption of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, if we betray the share of universities, is 295_millions. Never before had such an effort been made by the Business and Knowledge Council. And in this sense, it's an important effort we're making. And, in addition, another interesting fact: in twenty-eight days payments are already being made from the first line of help. The 20th of October is the agreement of the government and by the date of today has resolved almost 2,500 shippers for different millions of euros and, therefore, this to the Generality had never passed, a fast track like that that asks us Europe for the management of the European funds, we are applying it to our department. And, in this sense, we now have to see, because we also have a cry from emerging economic sectors, as one month ago it was the sanitation that said to us: "We are emerging, we have to close, now we detect that there are economic sectors that make a red alert: "We cannot go on, and we are trying to make an intelligent reopening. And this will take some time, but we need to bear in mind that the health authority is competent and we also need to adapt to its criteria.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the situation of businesses stop restrictions and prohibitions in certain economic activities]] [[310-00426/12]] The next question is about the situation of companies taking out restrictions and prohibitions in certain economic activities, and the formula on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.22.0	Mr. Tremosa, more than a month ago they imposed the closure on the hotel, closed the bars and restaurants, the nightlife had already closed it, closed the gymnasiums and sports centers. They closed everything related to leisure and culture and have done so in the most irresponsible way, without any plan to accompany, without any plan to help all these families, all these self-employed, all these small and medium-sized enterprises. And I say to you, Mr Tremosa, that they no longer endure, that now what is at stake is the survival of all these businesses, the maintenance of all these jobs and, above all, the livelihood of those thousands of families that depend directly or indirectly on the sectors that have closed down. The situation is very dramatic, Mr Tremosa, and the self-employed see with impotence that they have not been able to design a worthy aid system. It's been a humiliation for the self-employed. The web collapsed on the first day before the avalanche of applications; the next day, at three_hours, the subsidies had run out, and it was for the first ten_thousand, as if it were a contest, a gross television contest. I know it's up to the Department of Labour, but you're the Business Advisor, you're responsible for protecting all these sectors, protecting the hospitality, and you haven't. Why have you allowed such humiliation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.23.0	To answer the question you have the word of the Counsellor d'Empresa i Coneixement, Mr. Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.24.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, every day we are in contact with the affected sectors. There are meetings every day with the inn sector, with the sector... the last meeting of hotels was disbanded with the hoteliers of Roses. This week I had meetings with the catering sector, among others. Because my chief executives and secretaries are also working in this sense, we detect this emergence and we are working, as I said before, at most, fully, to give out in the measure of our responsibilities and capabilities in this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.25.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.26.0	Mr. Tremosa, the government doesn't do everything in its power to alleviate this pandemic. This government generates mistrust, creates uncertainty and, above all, generates despair. Look, the hoteliers have done their job, they have put in place all the necessary measures to ensure health security in their establishments. And who has not done the duties and left them abandoned has been this Government, who has not taken them into account, who has taken the decisions unilaterally, who has acted with probe balloons as, for example, when they announced that they were going to open the night leisure for the two days to close the restoration and the bars creating false expectations for all the owners, but, above all, for all the workers who were waiting to lift the ERTE, or have acted with night, when they did not allow the restoration that could manage their stocks. Mr Tremosa, I ask you a very direct question: will all self-employed people who meet the conditions to cover, to receive this help, regardless of the ten_ thousand, receive this help of two_ thousand_ euros before the end of the year? And I also ask: will they be able to open their activity? And under what conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.27.0	I've got the word again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.28.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, help to the local people is not over and the year is not over, and therefore we will make every effort possible. The call we made one month ago came to 75 percent of bars and restaurants and the one we're going to introduce the week you're going to try to get to 100 percent. We will make a system, that we are a student, of universal convocation, that will not be closed and, therefore, let us say that we will exhaust the money that has been transferred to us from the Economy so that we can cover, in time, the cent_percent of the people that I am asking for, of the restaurants and bars that I am asking for. Therefore, it is true that there has been a collapse with the local authorities, but at least the Government of Catalonia has tried to make an effort, with the local authorities; the Spanish Government could have done more, in this sense. Yesterday the president of the European Commission made a pelada saying: « 4,000_million euros more for Spain on account of the SURE credit, which already the first tram of 21,000_millions was granted on August 3. There's money from Europe. Also President Torra, in June, asked that the Spanish State ask for the rescue of the Mede, like the Government of Italy and the Socialist Minister of Economy Roberto Gualtieri is asking for some time in his Government. There are lines of credit from the European Union that the Spanish State could ask for and that it has not asked for. So, if we had this money, we could do a lot more social policy, right? And, besides, look, another time, the European Central Bank five years ago had zero_euros in its Spanish public debt balance. It will close this year with 450.000_million euros, purchased from Spanish public debt. The Spanish State collects the great tributes, but in addition, it buys them to practically zero interest on a large scale. These moneys where are they? So there could be 'him', to help them. So, so, in this sense, I suppose all administrations do everything we can in the line we can, right? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And now, in this sense – and I'm done – the recovery fund will be a great opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.29.0	Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.30.0	...for rebre also 140,000_million that... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about maritime strategy]] [[310-00422/12]] The next question is about maritime strategy and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Irene Fornós. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.32.0	Thank you, President. In Catalonia we have almost 830 kilometres of coastline that go from the head of Falcó to the river Senia. A coastal coast that has marked in our way of doing and being. Yes, we are a maritime company that we have and have had an economy, a leureus and a well-being that has always been linked to the sea and to all that is linked to this sea. During the past legislature, the Executive Council of the Government entrusted to the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food the development of a maritime strategy of country and this was the will of the Consteller Serret, to reside Catalonia in what had always been, with the aim of recovering the maritime anima of the country and placing it as a key actor of the blue growth. At the beginning of this legislature, in June 2018, the mandate culminated with the adoption of the Maritime Strategy of Catalonia 2030, a strategy that has been recognized in reports of the European Union as a success and that has placed Catalonia at the forefront of regional economies that are highly dependent on the sea. The scope of this strategy is a combination of activities related to Catalonia's maritime area, including economic sectors, reading, culture and research, and its economic, social and environmental sustainability. A strategy based on sustainable growth and co-management, change of culture and way of doing it, working together with the actors involved: fishing, the scientific world and civil society. And a new way of doing and relating all of them to the Administration, with the aim of making a more sustainable model and a management plan adapted to the territories to fulfill the principles of the bioeconomy. For many years, our sector has devoted itself to fishing very much – or as much as it could – and to stopping its hand to see how much they paid for it. Today it is what we know to change, to get closer to this bioeconomy: it is about fishing that the market can absorb, the sea can take over, and assure us the future. Jointly manage and put in place tools to boost the sector and make it more competitive, thinking about tomorrow, to manage resources, both natural and economic, and that is why we also know the importance of accompanying this maritime strategy of European foundations, managed through local action groups: the Local Action Group of the Costa Brava, which we have at these times, and the Local Action Group the Sea of the Ebre, and the indispensable task they do for the development of projects and to boost the evil economy in the respective maritime territories. Counselrera, past these first two years of the inn in operation of the Maritime Strategy of Catalonia, what value can we make?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.33.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.34.0	President... thank you very much, Congresswoman. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Let's start by saying yes, that we are very proud and very proud of the approval of the maritime strategy, but also, I mean, of its development, huh? Miri, according to data from the European Commission, Catalonia today is situated in front of the European territories with a more maritime economy, eh? , on the rise of states like Estonia or Portugal. And that, with figures, so, let's say that it generates a 5.4_percent of the occupation, for example a 3.8 of the gross value added. Just now we have to do this assessment, this mid-term evaluation, which you gave of the first two years. And here we have to say that the results are extremely successful, huh? And that, obviously, waits for us to keep working and also waits for us to keep working. Of the eighty-nine strategic lines that marked these first two years, at this time, so 90_per_cent of them are started. And it's gonna be like some of you are done, huh? And of the 281 actions, we have a 60_per_cent already finished and a 30_per_cent that have already begun. I mean, let's go all sail, huh? I also let a few examples. The creation of Icatmar, the new Institute for Research on the Governance of the Sea, that is working and that has already made the first volume of research and also results. Another example, for example, is the Catalonia's Maritime R+D+I Network, which we know as the BlueNetCat, which applies most of the country's search groups to the maritime environment. Another example, you spoke of, the local action groups, which are important and essential for the territory. Or, for example, the Català Board of Maritime Comanagement. In short, let me say that the Catalonian Maritime Strategy with this 2030 Horitzó is not smoke, eh? , but it is precisely a pillar for sustainable blue growth and also for the eco-governance of this country. I finish – I finish. Because our work of governance in the maritime sphere could say that it is guided under a principle that defined very well– and did so six centuries ago– Francesc Eiximenis when he said: « The sea is the great life of the Earth. So with these principles we'll do everything we can to be worthy of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the political, economic, transparency and legal certainty criteria for the system of self-help]] [[317-00242/12]] The next question is about... [[Pause.]] Pardon me, the next question is to the Vice-President of the Government on the political situation, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Alejandro Fernández. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.36.0	Yes; thank you, President. What political, economic, transparency and legal certainty criteria have been followed in deciding on the system of aid to self - employed persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.37.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.38.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The criteria of urgency and necessity. We are not an administration that has all the competitions in autonomies. We know that these helpers have been of emergency and, therefore, insufficient and are working – and we will bring it to the Council of Autonomous Work, with representation of autonomous organizations, unions and employers – in a new proposal for not an emergency help, but a permanent support scheme and will continue to have a much larger presuppositional endowment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.39.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.40.0	Thank you, President. Well, at the most difficult time in our recent history for the self-employed, instead of putting forward a rigorous policy of postponing or freezing taxes both those who are autonomous and those who are state-owned in their autonomic stage, decide a curious system: it is to take two_thousand_euros, to throw them as if they were the caramels of the King's horsemanship, and the first ten_thousand self-employed who throw themselves on the ground and collect them, for them are, and to the remaining 540,000, who give them. Finally, a humiliating, third-worldist, opaque policy – you who always fill your mouth with transparency – without democratic guarantees and without legal certainty of any kind. But, in case all this wasn't enough, which is, they're hanging the web on top. The matter is serious. I mean, aren't you guys able to get a website to work for you and pretend to make us believe you're going to build a state of your own? Or, by going a little further and using your words, Mr. Aragonès, which ensured that they would change the productive model. But what productive model will you change if you are not able to get a website to work for you? For God's sake! I suppose this should be part of what a part of your government defines as'smart confrontation'. « Confrontation, no doubt, in that you are teachers, but « intelligence, I am very afraid that you have the right to spend the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.41.0	To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.42.0	Thank you very much. As I have already said, honourable Member, it is working on an aid that must not be of emergency, but must be a measure of continued support. And we do this with assumptions and economic limitations that are clear. Emergence aids with the system that was adopted are similar to those that have completed other territories. Also government administrations for his party. In any case, you have shown in your intervention, when you made proposals..., in fact, the two proposals you made in your intervention how to give support to the autonomies show up to what point you are unaware, to what point you are a nire of ignorance about how the tax system works in our country. Well, I think you don't ignore it, because you're an intelligent person, what you do is you use arguments of bad faith, because you say that we haven't adjourned in the tax field imposed when today we're going to validate a decree you're going to this room that you're doing an adjournment, again, of the tax on staying in tourist establishments, say that we haven't made an adjournment when we're going to discuss this validation... go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. To say also that we have not made an adjournment when we have made an adjournment, for example, of a necessary tax figure from the environmental point of view such as CO2 emissions from vehicles, but that it can affect self-employed workers in the field of transport or that the fan serves for his work and that we have not approved the adjournment and that this has also been validated for this room in the past Ple... Maybe you weren't there, but to say that we didn't make a lie. And above all to say that we have the ability to manage how the IRPF of our autonomous tram is retrieved when it was managed by the State, and you say that we can do this here is to lie. Therefore, come the next day to the plenary with more proposals, I studied a little more, bring solutions, because now is not the time for easy, demagogic criticism, nor the profit partisan of the pain that we are painted in the matter of health and in the economic and social matter. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , but it's the subject of the proposals, and yours today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.43.0	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.44.0	...they're absolutely useless.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.45.0	Time's up. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about restrictions in the cultural sector because of the Covid-19 and whether Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya had withdrawn from the negotiating table to adopt measures against the pandemic.]] [[317-00244/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Mr Aragonès, on September 20, the Government of the Generalitat declared culture to be essential. We also know that culture is safe. In fact, there was no case or outbreak in the cultural sphere. We also know that it represents 4_percent of Catalan GDP and generates thousands of jobs. And, despite all this, on October 30th, we saw how movie rooms, theaters, auditoriums... And they're still locked – they're still locked. I also want to remind you that the day after this closure, the Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Angels Ponsa, said that the Government is committed to reopening the cultural acts once the speed of spread of the virus stretched under the '1, this famous Rt. And it had to be rectified and we saw that it wasn't like that. But it's that, besides this situation, this week we could listen to the same counselor in a communication medium say that surely – surely – the culture, therefore, should not have been closed in this second time. I ask them... and I ask them a couple of questions. The first is that it explains to us, therefore, all this sequence of contradictions that are, in a certain way, remaining credible to the Government at the time of demanding sacrifices from the citizenry. And I'd also ask you to know if it's true, how it just came out published, because in the end it's the way we're learning about things..., if Republican Left has withdrawn from the table to approve Covid measures before the leaks we're seeing the last few hours.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.48.0	The measures adopted in Catalonia and in order to curb the situation of the Covid-19 are measures which are always taken with the health criteria. I have no doubt that those areas where you also take decisions to stop the Covid-19 are taking precedence over the health criteria. In the field of culture... Culture was not declared by the Government of the State as essential either during the first warning measures or during the second seconds. We consider culture an essential asset, and therefore, in this sense, the measures of limitation in the field of culture have delayed as much as possible until it was absolutely inevitable. The past 30 October was declared a social standstill in the country, and, therefore, precisely, it was declared a standstill to protect the schools, to protect the work and what were the essential minimum services. From here on, our intention is to achieve a stabilization of the health situation in order to allow the reopening of as many sectors as possible as possible, but always with one criterion: the learning of which did not work well at last spring's descalation, which went too fast, and you told us here in Parliament, "You went too fast. So now we, precisely, what we don't want to do is make the same mistakes. It will go step by step, because what we cannot allow is that an excessive and hasty opening next week involves a new lock at the end of the month of December.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.49.0	To answer that question, you have the word, Congresswoman. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.50.0	Mr. Aragones, you haven't returned me. Has Esquerra Republicana withdrawn from the negotiating table of the Covid measures because of the leaks? Because we are talking about one of the two forces that form part of the Government of Catalonia. We are living very hard weeks away from a pandemic where people are making a lot of sacrifices, where we see that the measures the government is taking, mainly for the help issue, so they are very inadequate. They are causing you such a confusion between the citizens that in the end people no longer know what they can do and what they can't do, and we don't stop asking the people who are staying at home to remain responsible. Who has to be responsible must be the Government of the Generalitat. And I'll say one thing very simple and very basic: the government can't be a problem, the government has to solve the problems, and if it can..., much better if it can anticipate and avoid them. Again, the government cannot be a problem, the government has to solve a problem. A basic premise that seems to you to be oblivious to a pandemic like we're going through. They demand responsibility and troubleshooting...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.51.0	Congresswoman, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.52.0	...not that they believe more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.53.0	To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.54.0	Look, I'm making my own the words of the Deputy Director of Civil Protection of yesterday, and I find it absolutely regrettable and contrary to all the work being done – not just the internal government, which is our obligation, but also to all that..., the news and the certains that are waiting for the people who want to reopen their business – that is old, empty filtered, that are just blurry in that they are working internally to the government. And it's absolutely unfortunate, and so what we're very clear about is that this can't happen again. From here on, what we are asking everyone is that we do not focus on our particular vision of defending a legitimate individual interest or what is a legitimate interest in an economic sector, which are also legitimate, but we must be aware that if we do not get out of it all, we will not get out of the economic sector, we will not get out of it any person, we will not be saved no business, because we must not get out of it all, and therefore we must prevail over collective decision and the defense of life...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.55.0	Your time is up, Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.56.0	...and also the defense of being able to survive, and that means work places.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.57.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the responsibilities of the Government in managing aid to the local authorities]] [[317-00243/12]] The next question is the formula on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, Mrs Eva Granados. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.58.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, yesterday at the press conference, after the government meeting, it was said that the fiasco in managing the help of local workers was a question that only affects the councillor, and not the government's conjunction. I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.59.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.60.0	Member, we are very aware of the limitations that this emergency aid has had, and that is why it is working in a continuous and permanent support scheme. Now, this self-criticism that we do, we ask that it also be answered, because there is one thing worse than making insufficient help to the self-employed, that it is not making any, and you have not made any help to the self-employed who want to continue with their activity, and to access a benefit they ask that their activity cease, and the people want to continue working and that there is a direct injection of money. The Government of the Spanish State is the only government in Europe – the only one – that in the second year has not made direct aid. I asked the President of the Spanish Government Pedro Sánchez for a follow-up, and there was no answer, and the answer – which I am outraged by this lack of response – is not for me, it is for the people of this country, who want us to protect life, but who also want us to protect the way we survive, and I want to protect places of work. So, all the self-criticism, but they ask that it be corrected. They're also making you and helping us ask the government of the state that the hands are not given before this second wave.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.61.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.62.0	Vice President, you haven't returned me if you share this opinion that you donate to the press wheel. And look, Mr. Aragones, we make a constructive opposition. We are proposing our support for the pandemic, and the proof of that is that of the thirty-eight decrees that led to validation in this Parliament, of the thirty-fourth, my group has only voted against two. And so, with the legitimacy that gives us this responsible opposition, today we must say, with all due respect, that it is not acceptable for the government to abdicate in cascade from its responsibilities. There is no objection to the Government of Spain, you have responsibilities and management capacity. And what we have is that the vice president in office of president is discharging his responsibility in the councillor, and that the councillor discharges his responsibility in third level positions to the government hierarchy. You are accountable to the people's needs and to a constructive opposition with an abdication of cascade responsibilities. It is difficult to remember other times when criticism of the government's management is so unanimous from all ideological spectra and its only reaction has been directly « to run the bundle under the hierarchy. They don't do what they know they have to do because they're caught up in the fight between government partners. That's it, Vice President. In this crisis of extreme gravity we all hoped that they would overcome the pre-electoral balances between the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, but they are not only not doing so, but they are intensifying them. Mr. Aragones, do you know any precedents in Europe in the face of management fiascos like the ones we've experienced, recognizable throughout society and communication media, the reaction is to replace third-level cargoes? Do you know any priors?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.63.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.64.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. My honourable Member, the problems of all the Councillors and Councillors of this Government, the difficulties that can be encountered in their management are my problems and my difficulties, and I will be working alongside all the members of the Government to overcome the challenges that we face, regardless of the political force that has been proposed by the Councillor's name or the Councillor's name. Therefore, this is clear to us. We are also clear that the situation in which we are now living, in which many people, therefore, are in a situation of anxiety before the uncertainties that exist, we all have to contribute to overcoming it. As was said before the Councillor of Treball, since August, the ERTOs that have been processed are not charging for themselves in the province of Barcelona. And that generates anxiety and that contributes to a climate of anxiety and contributes to uncertainty, and that's what we need to solve. And we have also made ourselves available to the Government of the State to help them solve it, in which we can do, with all the humility and limitations that we have, that there are many, because we are an autonomy and we are not an independent State, we do not have the same tools as the Government of the State. And the answer was like Mr. Pedro Sánchez's letter: zero, zero absolutely. Therefore, the problems of all counselors are also my problems. And we will continue to take action, because there is one thing very clear: we prefer measures that cost us votes rather than measures that cost us more lives than they are badly lost.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.65.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the value of the fact that the Spanish Government did not unravel the bailout plan to face the effects of the Covid-19]] [[317-00245/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the deputy Sergi Sabrià. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.66.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, advisors, advisors, vice president. You know better than anyone, but the economic crisis, the social and labor fatigue we have about it is capital. It is certainly true that today we have passed the most acute impact of this pandemic, also of this second wave in terms of public health, but to recover the economic muscles of the country today is a fundamental priority, and it is now and today; we do not need to transfer this problem to the coming year. People are patenting now and are patenting a lot; that's what makes us lose sight of this. The only reason we're here, the reason you feel like we're here today, is to help people, improve people's lives and do more, whatever happens to our hands, to get it. And that's what we do, with certainty and certainty, sure, that we also have mistakes, like everyone else, because learning is continuous and because the challenge is like we've never seen it before, but we don't rest to get it. It's obvious that it can always be better, all of us, all of us, whatever our position is – government, parties, opposition – but we are very aware of all this. And today, from here we want to thank so many people who have dedicated hours and hours to it and who have brought their knowledge and energy to try to minimize the effects of this pandemic. And from here, this unequivocal compromise. We want to make one thing very clear: the government has put everything in place to look for the exits, but it is also obvious that he has his hands tied and that whoever has the key to the box makes him see that he has fallen into the river. I can't wait until 2021. The generality and the groups we support the government have economic and legal limitations and we can't cover any more holes because the state doesn't do the job. It is urgent, urgent, that the Spanish Government, this government of socialists and commons, which is said to be progressive, set up a rescue plan from the table for the people of this country, as is being done throughout Europe, as we would if we really had the tools of a state. The situation is of urgency. They're close to taking on responsibilities as a matter of urgency. The situation is very serious and Catalonia's historical infra-finance makes us shatter and today we pay it directly with lives and not just with economy. And that's why I told them they didn't serve mermaids anymore, because we already have enough numbers and failures. Vice President, how do you value this situation? How do you appreciate that the Spanish government doesn't once unravel a rescue plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.68.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have taken measures to protect the lives, to protect before the second wave of the pandemic..., to prevent that it is not produced in Catalonia that it was produced in that first wave. And this... we can compare the first-hand figures to the second. But also that the measurements work: three weeks ago we were thirty-one thousand per week; today's data, which have just been published, in the last week we have passed to seven thousand. In one day, we reduced the risk of a rebound from 405 to 390, taking the risk of a rebound of more than a thousand in what we found just 20 days ago. Yesterday, the number of people admitted to the hospital was reduced by 83. We're still keeping the transmission rate below 0.8 in 0.76. At ICUs we passed on a single day from 595 to 574. That's not magic. It happens because there has been an effort of this society; there has been an effort of the citizenry with its behavior. And we have to ask them to continue doing this effort. There has also been an effort by many economic sectors which, even in an imposing way, for reasons of public health, have had to see, therefore, how their activity is suspected or limited. And what we have to guarantee is that when they can re-open, hopefully as soon as possible, they can do it with predictability and security. And that is why a progressive descalation is absolutely necessary. But it is also absolutely necessary that, at the expense of restrictive measures, there should be support measures. We'd like to do a lot more. We've mobilized everything that's in our backyard and we'll keep doing it. Let us go to the end to achieve until the last euro in support of sectors which are economically affected by restrictions or the economic situation in general. That is why, when we adopted the first restrictive measures, I transferred to the President of the Government of the State, by letter, but also personally, our conviction that they would take all the necessary measures to protect life, but that we hoped for their collaboration. And he didn't get there. He didn't make it. But it's not that he didn't get to Catalonia, it's that he didn't get to any other affected sector of the rest of the state, and he must also assume the responsibilities here, he must assume the solutions. Because we can't delegate healthcare management and forget about economic management. They've got to do the duets. And, therefore, we also ask the Government of the State that I act, that I act, and that it is essential, because, apart from saving life, it must be able to survive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.69.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the effectiveness, the instability and the union of the Government in the management of the Covid-19 since the last appearance]] [[317-00246/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.70.0	Mr Aragonès, how do you value the effectiveness, stability and unity of the Government in the management of the pandemic from your previous appearance to today?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.71.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.72.0	So I appreciate the way in which I manifest my commitment again, because now it is not about party questions, it is not about visions on its part, it is not about focusing exclusively on the defence of the legitimate interests of an economic sector or of an individual need. We need to think about the country's conjunction, and we need to think about the country's conjunction, which means that when we have the health knowledge we cannot take a rapid measure of descalation as it was last spring, we have to do it in a different way. We are being warned by all health experts, and therefore we will take action in accordance with this scientific knowledge, but also in agreement with our conscience. And, as I said before, they are measures that are unpopular; they are measures that provoke criticism, legitimate criticism, criticism that many times they also highlight errors of questions that have not done so well, and we will continue to improve. But what we will never do is try to gain more popularity by changing the sacrifice and health risks; we will never do that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.73.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.74.0	Thank you, Mr Aragonès, for giving us the opinion of the Republican Left faction of your government. Look, two months ago the corruption scandal that affected the Republican Left came to light: you lost the papers here, the Catalans are losing patience with you. As long as you don't give help and leave the self-employed in ruin, in Madrid you are bending the curve and there are bars and restaurants open. And this is not what Citizens say, it's what their own experts say, who are announcing on Twitter that they would want to go to work in Madrid, their health experts. You are a management disaster, you are a government in dysfunctions, and it is an agony. You yourselves recognized that if you could stop Councillor El Homrani you would, and he, who might have resigned, what he chose was to purge the members of his team. But, look, this morning we're knowing that Republican Left leaves the meeting to decide on Covid's political measures. How is it possible that the party in the government..., that because of the fights with its partners in Junts per Catalunya, it is being said that you leave the meetings where the political measures of the Covid are decided? And this morning we are also experiencing new leaks of their bandages regarding the times when the hoteliers and the restaurateurs will be able to open their premises. It now appears to be extended in a few hours. Can you confirm this to us, whether this is so or not? Because you're going to filter and amend, you don't give people any kind of security. Everyone is terrified by the measures you decide. It's just that now, if this is true, it's that at nine o'clock they'd close the premises, which doesn't even give them time to make dinners, because they have a curfew at ten o'clock. Look, gentlemen of the government, you are a disaster for Catalonia, and Catalans do not deserve a government that plays with their health and with their economy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.76.0	Thank you very much, President. How easy it is, when they don't have responsibilities, to think without criteria. And you're thinking without criteria. A_me did a debate about the Covid situation, and you came to set an example of a coalition government, a government of City. Did the Madrid government set an example? No, no, One example was the Government of Castella and Lleó, which, like the Government of Catalonia, has taken measures to lock up the inn. Now there's no such government, now Castle doesn't rule Ciutadans. The Junta d'Andalusia also; they've put the curfew on the late six in some territories, and they've shut down bars and restaurants, huh? It doesn't exist. You disappear from the governments according to the decks in the plenums. Because you... under this appearance of lack of criteria, what is really there is a demagic position, a demagic position of not providing solutions. So you have to tell us which model to defend your party. Because what can't be is: depend on how the situation goes, now defend the model Ayuso or now defend the model of Castella and Lleó. Look, all governments are making decisions that they consider most appropriate to their health situation – according to their health situation. And we'll take the decisions and announce when they're up and done. And, therefore, no one pays attention to leaks, and if there are media that criticize leaks that don't publish them either – we also ask all communication media for responsibility. And, therefore, they will announce when they are completed, always defending that the protection of life goes first and foremost. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.77.0	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.78.0	Because we don't want a second return for Nadal. The Nadal we want to make it home and not the ICUs. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.79.0	Thank you. [[Ask the government about the predictions, the evolution and the prospective in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic in the world of culture]] [[310-00423/12]] The next question, about the forecasts, the evolution and the prospective in relation to the pandemic of the Covid-19 in the world of culture, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.80.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, staff of the house, who always vet for us... Honourable Counsellor Ponsa, at this time of greatest complexity we are living the constant struggle of your department to defend culture has been and is key. In this hemisphere, and since Junts per Catalunya, we have valued culture on multiple occasions, also when we have experienced a phase of total confinement or now that we are in the phase of night and week-end confinement with the application of various sanitary measures that we have taken in order to be able to lower the contagion indexes of the Covid-19. From the beginning of her appointment, counsel, not yet three months ago, her department, with you in front of her, has not stopped working to reach all the sectors of culture, to listen to the multiple voices that curse to pull forward at this difficult time and that make it from all the territories that configure our country. Putting culture at the centre as a focus and declaring it with conviction very essential for the citizenry has allowed a part of the cultural world not to be closed, and we thank it for its dedication and effort to help the part that, unfortunately, has had to stop with important economic measures. On every occasion that you have and have claimed culture, and safe culture, and this is appropriate for the sector and to establish the debates that the department that you encapsulate has with health authorities at the time of defining the necessary protocols and measures at every moment. From Juntes per Catalunya, we would like to know what they have planned to prepare for recovery and recovery with the will to ensure the sustainability of the cultural sector now that epidemiological data seems to allow them to do so, which help, what actions and what campaigns have defined from the department for the next few days. We know, she advises, that the government, in general, and you, in particular, defend culture here and on which you always value the social wealth that carries implicit as the foundational pillar of the welfare state. We thank him for his work and ask him to continue working hard in the cultural sector as he has done so far and taking into account the territorial reality that defines us as the country. Just this week we have commemorated the two years of the castles declared immaterial heritage of humanity, and the best honor is that we are also pinned, from every possible front, for culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the word Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Angels Ponsa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.82.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. MPs, MPs... thank you also for your words. As you rightly mentioned, therefore, and with health measures that were being called upon to do so, we were forced to close a part of the culture; a part that... thanks to the declaration of "culture, well essential, was the part that implied the most interaction and the most mobility, and we were able to keep all the remaining cultural equipment open. Still defend it with nails and teeth, because we are convinced that culture is safe, when there is a pandemic, so it is quite certain that they run the health authorities and, therefore, we all have to be responsible and understand in this sense as well. But from the first moment on – and I wanted to communicate it personally with the entire team too to all those responsible for the different cultural equipments that had closed their activities – we have set ourselves at their side. We set out to work together for the economic measures that we were able to take, to do it at once. There are three, if I don't recall, four lines that are already in gear since last week and one that will be this week that we are, with a total of 17,200,000 euros, that add to the 26th and rest that we have already donated since the month of September, since this, in the three, not yet, later months. And this total of €43 million makes it possible to make a good economic support to prevent culture from falling. Not only that, but once you helped them, we put ourselves to work for the dam, which we didn't know when it could be. Let's hope it's soon enough. We didn't know, but we'd have to work because they can't open cultural equipment overnight; they need programming. Also a communication campaign that can raise them up. The statement that we made yesterday to the Government of cultural equipment..., because they have this prestige that they deserve, and a lot of actions, that we try not to leave them, that they feel attached to the Department of Culture, that they feel well attached and that we know that their problem is also our problem, because at these times any problem that affects citizenship is the problem of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.83.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the balance of the two months of schooling]] [[310-00421/12]] The next question is about the balance of the two_months of school education and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the MP Mònica Palacín. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.84.0	Thank you very much, President. We already have two school months and the first one I want, before I ask you the question, counselor, is to please again, as we do every time and as we do all the time, the educational community its effort, its commitment to keep the school open and safe. Thank you to the thousands of teachers and to the faculty. Thanks to the staff of the service and administration and to the non-teaching professionals who are also part and thanks, many thanks, to more than 1,700,000 students – children, children, young people, adolescents – who in many moments have given us a great lesson of life to adults. They have passed well eight months since the announcement of the closure of the schools and now we can see with perspective and analyze what and how it worked to be able to open the schools again on September 14th and what and how to work to keep them open and continue to improve our education system. In these moments, we are in the middle of the pandemic. It seems that, in general, we have better data: a Rt of 0.75, less daily, but the guard cannot be lowered, because they still lose lives and because there is a lot at stake, still. The data, for which it makes the case to the schools and the institutes, can follow them daily to the app Traçacovid, and the result of the joint work of the Departments of Health and Education, and we can see how the number of students confined to Catalonia today is the lowest of October 10. And this with the data that we have in general in the country shows a good job of the centers, which can continue to reinforce with all the necessary means to be able to maintain the presence. Also to recover this presence in post-compulsory stages and universities, and also in extra-school activities, also necessary for the development of children and young people as far as this is possible. It is important, therefore, to look back to keep working for the weekend. Counselor, what is the balance between these two course_months and the measures to ensure the continuity of open and secure schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, you have the word of the education counselor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.86.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies and deputies... deputy, the month of August was a very hard one for us. It was a very hard one for us, because we came from the transfer of the lock of the schools without being prepared, as in society, to make the school closed. It was a very hard one because public opinion, published opinion cast doubt on the ability of Catalonia's education system to respond and open in September, because there were interests of all kinds, also economics, so we didn't open. And the month of September was a success: success from the directions of the centers that they bet to do everything to open; success from the teaching cloister, from the teachers, from the teachers why they did everything possible to open; success from the families, why they did everything possible to open; but success, above all, for the students, because despite the fact that the conditions are not the best, despite the fact that we have measures that are tough, that are not pleasant, measures that make it difficult for us to get used to the reality of the classrooms, the school is open, the school is safe and the data explain it. Today we have 98_percent of the students and 99_percent of the faculty doing educational activity in the midst of the pandemic; in the wake of the pandemic we have 98_percent of the student and 99_percent of the faculty doing educational activity. But that's not just the important thing. It's that our student needs the actual reality, the reality of socialization that's the classroom, that's the company and the company, that's the classroom teacher. The presenceality is necessary in the world of education, it is fundamental, it is key because, more so – more so – we are the best response to the community crisis. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] School's the tool...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.87.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.88.0	...out of the community crisis. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.89.0	The next question is... [[Ask the Government about languages in the education system]] [[310-00427/12]] ... on the languages in the education system, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Sierra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.90.0	Thank you. Good morning. Citizens defend multilingualism, and that is why we propose an educational system with three vehicle languages, unlike you, which defend monolingualism, and impose on us an educational system with a single vehicle language despite the fact that you have already been told by the European Parliament that your model is discriminatory. And this issue has been discussed in Europe because those brave Catalan families struggling to have the best possible education for their children have had to go there to claim their rights. And in Europe they have found what they have not found here: to listen to them and to respect them. Because here, people of his party have protested against these families, such as Anna Simó, who is the president of the School Council, but is protesting against Catalan families. It's just that I think that's all there is to it. It is clear that you do not care about students or their families, because you see language as an ideological tool, but unlike you, I do want to talk about didactic and pedagogical criteria. You said that the important thing is that students are competent in both languages. If we take into account that in Catalonia two or three hours a week are devoted to Spanish and twenty to Catalan, what methodology and teaching and pedagogical criteria are to be used to achieve an equivalent domain in the two languages?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.92.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, you're in comfort. I am comforted because in the midst of the pandemic you return to the history of always [[applause]] , and that's good from time to time – it's good from time to time – because those who skate day to day the reality, fit, from time to time, move 'in the world of fiction. So, there's agraeixo. Everything you've said knows you don't have much. And you know that Catalonia's education system, which works for skills, works for the language skills of our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.93.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.94.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ... debate on the table, it is you who have changed budgets for removing the rights of all Catalan students. [[Greetings.]] Look, it's not possible to get an equivalent domain in two languages if you spend two_hours a week and the other twenty. That is why you have not been able to talk to me about methodology, teaching criteria or pedagogical criteria, what I asked you. And that's why lies have to be invented such that the level of Spanish of Catalan students is higher than that of the rest of Spain, when there is no homologable evidence. Or as when they say: "It is that the students leave the education system speaking Spanish. No, man, no! They just come in and speak Spanish. But one thing is to speak a language, and another very different, to master the cult record. Look, neither you nor the Socialists, who have accepted that amendment that stains Spanish in exchange for budgets, think about the students. It is that you are not able to even think about students with special educational needs, which you harm because you prevent them from educating themselves in their language. You put your ideology ahead of the students, because there are neither didactic nor pedagogical criteria to defend the so-called 'linguistic immersion', and if not, prove it now. Talk about teaching and teaching criteria. But this is not immersion, this is submission, and we want free, equal, and trilingual students. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I've got the word again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.96.0	Thank you, President. Member, I thank you for the final meeting, which is also good for you in this house to feel... Look, listen, if you have a problem with the PSOE in Madrid – if you have a problem with the PSOE in Madrid – that you would want to agree with them and not get it, listen, it is not a problem with the Department of Education of the Generality of Catalonia; I assure you. It's not. If they have the problem with the PSOE in Madrid and now it turns out that the PSOE has granted the Education Law that has to end once with the most regressive law, the more reactionary it has ever been to the State, which is the Wert Law. [[applause]] , that it was time – that it was time –, that it took a long time to carry this absolutely reactionary law..., if the PSOE has decided to agree this law with parliamentary groups that are opposed to reactionary teaching, it is not our fault. Point's, your group, to progressive teaching and maybe you can get to these agreements. As long as they're in reactionary teaching, they won't make it. But it's more than that, listen. The language, the teaching of the language is fundamental in the linguistic structures. Linguistic structures are not language-based, and therefore, Catalonia's language-based education system is based on linguistic structures, which ensures that all our students complete their studies with full and complete skills of official languages of the State. And that's what's going on. And that's what all the reports say. And they say, to a greater extent, that in Catalonia, with a level higher than other places in the State, which we do so much, because the important thing is the level of the students, not the comparison.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.97.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on the application of the Law of 30 March 2015 on the protection of civil security]] [[310-00428/12]] The next question is about the application of the Organic Law 4/2015, of March 30, protecting citizen security. I the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.98.0	Counselor, massive identifications, massive fines based on the law bite against the movement in defense of the right to habitat. Who has this decision? In this case, you won't be able to tell me that the Mossos are acting under a court order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.99.0	To answer the question, you have the words of the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Sàmper.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.100.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, for your question. To situate the subject, state that in the last three years, therefore, 17, 18 and 19, infractions of these characteristics have been processed 10,200, of which only a 10_per_cent have reached the execution phase. So it's not a problem that we need to incardinate right now with a current habitating problem, but it's been causing it for three years. I'll explain it to you in more detail in the second place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.101.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.102.0	Three concrete examples. Twenty-i-five thousand euros, forty fines, to put up with an illegal denunciation to a family, 5 of October, full pandemic. Part tenant: Estela, her children, her net of seven years and a family member with a 65_percent recognized and accredited disability; they lived in that house for 15 years. Part lessor: a businessman, a great consort. Case two. Now let's go to Bages. Two large people, with a minor in charge, with a pes granted for the emergency table, pending the final award; disset_000_euros, twenty-seen many. Let's go to Sants. Thirty-one thousand euros, forty-five fines to give support to an occupation of a pes of a great lord, to rent families to which the Administration is not giving answer. Miri, you said: "With the law disappears the greatest of the guarantees of an accused or a sanctioned: the presumption of innocence. He says: "The percentage will increase enormously in the degree of efficiency in the application of the law bite. I don't know if it sounds like that, it's an article of his, in 2014, when the Council of Ministers gave green light to the law bite. You criticized the fact that this law eliminated the presumption of innocence, that, in effect, moving from punishable ducts of the Criminal Code to multiple administrative authorities had given the officers a presumption of veracity. Counselor, answer me. Who has made this decision to dismantle the right-to-habitat movement? Who has made the decision to impose massive fines on the basis of the law bites those people who hold charges when the Administration is not giving housing alternatives? Who has this decision? Why do the Mosses act this way? You can't tell me this is under a court order. Answer the question and do not take it away, please, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.103.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.104.0	Thank you, President. Miri, we have two possibilities, two paths. One, to do what you have done here today, is to say, a speech with facts that we could frame in a certain populism; to do what is normally done on the street, which is to encourage people to try to avoid the action, in that case yes, of the police as the judicial police. Or try among all of us to solve a problem for a terriblely complicated moment, where we should be captors of: first, see where the problem really is in the denunciation process, and, therefore, go to see when we can really guarantee a housing response, and, two, be very clear that among all of us we must be captors of getting it to the one who can give us a skill to make a moratorium today..., and that is nothing more than the Spanish State. I invite you to go for this second way; a way of consensus, to identify where the problem of housing emergence is, to identify it very well, to pull forward with solving the problem at this point, and not when the police are already acting as a co-operator of the judicial committee. And, two, to be very clear from this Parliament that we must be able to demand this state competence in order to actually have a moratorium. And you were asking a question, which is: who made the decision. What I can say to you, because I will not take the answer, is that when the fact that your question was raised passed, which was October 5th, since the Department of the Interior..., and a servant himself did what was to be done with articles 35 and 36 of the Law, that is to say, to be able to interpret them in the exceptional situation that we have today in our country. And, therefore, I can tell you that this interpretation today will take very much into account what our situation is, and, therefore, be well able to see that these sanctions today are probably not fit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.105.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the fight against male violence]] [[310-00419/12]] The next question is about the fight against male violence. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Beatriz Silva's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.106.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. In October 2018 the Parliament of Catalonia approved, on a proposal from the Socialist Group, a Catalan pact against macho violence that had to be implemented in six months. It's been two years and we don't know anything. In November 2019, a year ago, I asked you in that Chamber and you replied that you were working to coordinate the different speakers in Parliament and recognized that this was a task we had to do together. One year after this response, we parliamentary groups remain unconvoked; there has not even been an attempt to hold a meeting in these two years. How do you explain this, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.107.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.108.0	Thank you, President. Yes, honourable Member; look, unfortunately, therefore, the calendar, this pandemic has put an end to it. We were planning, as you know, to start working on this line with the different groups, but, I repeat, at these times the management of the Covid has put an end to this calendar, which we hope very soon, when the data so permit, we can resume.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.109.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.110.0	Thank you, Counselor. We're talking about two years; the pandemic has been going on for a few months. The latest macrosurvey of violence against women notes that Catalonia is a leader in macho violence; we are in the first position in economic and psychological violence of control, but also when we measure the total violence suffered by women – physical, sexual and emotional – who have suffered it by 41_per_cent of women in Catalonia. We are the autonomous community with the highest figure; we are the second community where women have suffered the most sexual harassment in the past year, and the third with the most sexual violence. How is it possible that these figures on the table do not have a shock plan or other political forces to make this a country priority? You sometimes talk about the creation of a working group, but a pact is not something that the Government does with a working group; the pact is what the Congress of Deputies did, which brought together all political forces in a paper where a series of shock measures were agreed and 200_million_euros per year to make reality, 200_million_euros that all political forces committed to providing in the general budgets will govern who will govern. This is what the Catalan Parliament approved two years ago and it is what other autonomous communities have, such as Valencia, which, with less population than Catalonia, dedicates 21_million_de_euros only to the deployment of the measures contained in its pact. Counselor, the legislature is about to run out. You could give us an explanation why macho violence has not been a priority, why a government that defines itself as a feminist has done nothing to deploy the Law on the Eradication of Macho Violence, which has been waiting since 2008 – twelve years – for a regulation and a budget allocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.111.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.112.0	Thank you, President. MP, my dear, from the Government of Catalonia we have as our priority the eradication of male violence, no doubt, and we condemn the eleven victims of male violence that we suffered this year 2020, giving more women a daughter of one of the victims. For what he does in the area of feminicide, seen in the area of the pair, and, as you know, two in the family area and the daughter of one of the victims, he is also considered a related homicide. And from the Government of Catalonia we are working with all our strength, reinforcing all the coordination mechanisms, adapting all the services we have, putting us on the march, and anticipating resources where they were needed. And I don't want to say – I don't want to say – that, in a situation we find ourselves in, in this pandemic, since March we have had a residential confinement, as you know perfectly well, we have greatly increased the name of tricks. In fact, the names of victims of violence have been doubled. He's been following all these cases. As you know, at the beginning of March, the complaints in the Mossos were reduced because the victims had to leave their homes, but in this sense, then they recovered the names of the complaints. Since the Government of Catalonia we have reinforced all services with telematic tools, so, if we find ourselves again with a situation of these, we can give answers to victims. We have reinforced the 900 line; the Català de los Dones Institute has equipped itself with more professionals, psychologists and jurists, to give psychological and legal services to victims of male violence. We still have you serving this way. At the meetings, as you know, the programme contracts have also been reinforced with EUR 2 million and for those meetings of less than 20 thousand inhabitants who had paid attention to the violence but who did not have SIAD, a line of subsidies has also been opened, which these days are settling, of EUR 700,000. Since the Government of Catalonia, we have been compromised in the struggle against male violence. And, in addition, I also want to remind you, as you know perfectly well, that in this Parliament of Catalonia, the Law of Male Violence is being processed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.113.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about forecasts, developments and prospects regarding the Covid-19 pandemic in the world of sport]] [[310-00425/12]] The next question is about forecasting, evolution and prospecting in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic in the world of sport. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the French deputy of Dalmases. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.114.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I'd like to dedicate the first few seconds of the question we ask the government why we're talking about Joseph's name in this little room, this six-month menu from which we didn't know the view, but the view of his mother, rescued in the middle of the Mediterranean, shouting: "Where is my baby, end my baby. Remembering President Torra, that more than ever this Parliament is committed to life, we talked about life, how to preserve it and how to protect it. Thank you. And speaking of life, counselor, we would like to ask you for an essential aspect for the physical and mental health of a society, such as the practice of sport. The Covid-19_has had a huge impact on the world of sport: from the smallest sports association to the biggest club, the Barcelona Football Club, from the pool of P3 students to the sports practice of federations, has affected the majority sports and minority sports. All of it. We know that the pandemic has a hard impact on people and, therefore, on our health system. We also know that the pandemic has complex and complicated economic prospects for the whole of Catalan society. But we obviously know about the individual and collective benefits of sports practice. We all remember those first days when the confinement was relaxed during the first wave. The villains and the cities were filled with people of all ages recovering from that sport that they could not do at home or that they had to do in a precarious way. But sport is also the effort of hundreds of thousands of people involved in sports clubs and associations from all over the country. And it is also the good work of small and medium-sized enterprises that directly or indirectly live from and to the sport. They've all made a huge effort since the beginning of the pandemic. But we would like to ask you, counsel, with all due caution, about the forecasts that this government has in relation to the world of sport and its practitioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.116.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, I add to his words of iniquitousness, and I thank him for his reflection. Look, it's really a very difficult time for the whole city, and especially for all those sectors that have been affected in their activities because of this second episode of the Covid-19. Therefore, first of all, allow me to recognize myself for the effort and sacrifice of so many people, thanks to whom we have been able to begin to control this second wave and to take those steps so that we can begin to capture epidemiological data. You remembered the moment of descalation that we were living in the spring, before the summer, and then you made a point of respect, because it is very important that all folds become aware of the present moment. We are not in a descalade; we are still in the middle of the second wave of this pandemic. And we are at the gates of winter and we have to live with the virus for many months; months that have nothing to do with summer months. And, therefore, one time, I repeat, we have achieved some content of this second one, we are at the moment of being able to flexibilize some of the restrictive measures that are in place. And this mental mark is very important: we're not out of step – I think that's why we don't have to take all the awareness of it – but we're still in the middle of the day, but the data allows us to start flexibilising measures. And at this point, and entering the world of sport, what have we done? So, look, economic measures to accompany the affectation of all these activities; 25_million euros, which the Government itself approved today already the call for these subsidies. And starting on the 23rd, the sport will be one of the sectors where it can begin to advance in this flexibility. And how do we do that? So look, allow 'but at these times I can not concrete it, because we are working in the area of Procicate, but in general what we try to recover trainings in the free area, those activities in the free area, and some activities in the covered area, always taking into account the measures of limited growth, of hygienic measures and of the adjournment of sports competitions. I want to end this intervention by putting in value everything that the world of sport represents to our country, because to do sport is to make salvation, and at a time of pandemic it is more necessary than ever. Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.117.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the motivating factors that have prevented access to information on grant or asset allocation consignors linked to the United Nations for the period 2013-2020]] [[320-02258/12]] The next question is about the motivations that have prevented facilitating access to information on the grant or asset allocation consignors to entities linked to the United Nations for the period 2013-2020, formulated, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Susana Beltrán. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.118.0	Thank you. Counselor, why don't they tell us who they paid the United Nations to?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.119.0	To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor d'Acció Exterior, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Solé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.120.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, MP Beltrán... Before Councilman Bargalló said that you are immersed in this fictional mina. What I can tell you is that you, with these continuing questions, are fully immersed in this day of the marmot. I will explain to me as many times as it takes in this Parliament, but I am surprised that, with the situation in the country, you have set aside this difficult time of the control session to reiterate questions that have been answered extensively. So what I can tell you is that if you detail the request well, we will answer it with concreteness.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.121.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.122.0	Councillor, after months and months without answering – pre-Covid period –, months and months, yesterday – councillor, arrived at the Bureau of Parliament a letter from the Government on web plans to find the information. I clicked on these web plans and did not find the information. The transparency organ, which have stopped me..., several times has told them – various times – that to refer to web plans is not in itself a response to a Member of Parliament. They tell us, not to give us the information, that the collection work is very complex. And I ask myself: "is it really very complex? Are the payments that have been made to the United Nations from 2013 to 2020 not properly ordered? How many are there? – How many are there? How much money have you spent on this? It's not a rhetorical question, it's a direct question. Really, don't they have the payments they've made to the United Nations well-ordered? All this, this blocking of information, causes us to suspect that they continue to pay accomplices to the secession process, and continue to mislead a lot of money that escape parliamentary control, that escape democratic control. A few days ago we learned that the director of Mr Puigdemont's office had met with a United Nations rapporteur. And just for the press, because you can't give us the meeting agendas at the Puigdemont office either. I myself wanted to meet with international rapporteurs and they didn't want to. [[Widow's remorse.]] And what's the coincidence that after the reports of these rapporteurs are party reports and that they don't take into account absolutely the parents of Catalans who don't see at the cost of the process. Doesn't that sound strange to you? I'd appreciate it if you would challenge us. We're not tired, we're tired of being stuck behind the web plans and they're not answering the question of: who did they pay to the United Nations from 2013 to 2020? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'd like you to challenge, Counselor of Transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.124.0	...because they won't answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.125.0	Your time's up. [[Greetings.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.126.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, Congresswoman, first of all, I insist: all the information that you are asking for is explicitly exposed through the web pages and through the searchers, the searchers, the searchers, which the Government of the Generality has enabled, as it cannot be in any other way. For another band – and it allows 'undercut' – I am surprised that you, with the parliamentary representation you always say you have, question the objectivity of the rapporteurs of an organization internationally recognized as United Nations. I don't think it's appropriate to question an organism with a historical trajectory. Anyway, you were talking about silence. We, like the Government, before his questions, asked him two times to give us a few acclaims, precisely because in this will to be rigorous in the answer we can give him the best answer. And do you know what answer we got to these two requests for acclaim? Silences absolutely. So, here the silencer is exactly you. And do you know why you're silent? Because its object is not to this information, but to fill the press – its press – with headlines. We are asked for dispatches, grants, agreements, etc., from the United Nations Generality and from the last eight years. As you know, there have been more than a hundred organizations and organizations linked to the United Nations, more than a hundred missions from around the world. And, therefore, United Nations is an organ, it is an organization that has a frantic multilateral activity and a huge ream of the world. Therefore, what we give to him as to Government is that, if you want to get a rigorous answer, you have to detail exactly what he is asking for. This shows, in the first place, a lack of knowledge of an international body like United Nations or, in any case, what shows is that you use this repeated request for information to fill in headlines. And that's not the job we'd make it easier for us to get out of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.127.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the commitment to the 2030 Agenda as a full route to tackle the recovery of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and to reimagin a better world for infants]] [[401-00046/12]] After the control session, let's continue with the order of the day. And the second point is the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the commitment to the 2030 Agenda as a full route to tackle the recovery of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and reimagin a better world for the infants. We'll read this statement. And that's why I pass the word to the first secretary, Mr. Eusebi Campdepadrós, why proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.128.0	« Enguany five years ago the United Nations approved the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, a full route to make the world a more just and socially sustainable place, economically and environmentally, of which human rights are the pala de palar. At the same time, 2020 is starting the countdown for the completion of the agenda. They've been there for years to make it work. The crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic has serious consequences for childhood and adolescence. These are exceptional circumstances that lead to an increase in the child's poverty and inequality, an aggravation of the education system and a threat to the physical and mental health of infants, adolescents and other families. These consequences have a more pronounced impact on those in vulnerable situations. The current situation testifies the society's ability to respond, not only before the emergence of the Covid-19, but also before the challenges raised, so that it is inescapable to renew the compromise with the rights of childhood. It's time to reimagine a better world for infants, so on World Children's Day 2020 it's important that all public powers reaffirm their commitment to the 2030 Agenda as a full collectible route to respond to today's emergence and reimagine a more equitable, sustainable and just world for everyone. To do so, it is essential to ensure that children's rights are placed at the centre of crisis response and recovery measures, following the path of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so that all infants can develop maximum potential. Before the arrival of the coronavirus, the poor and the exclusion affected almost one of every three infants. That is to say, many families face the situation generated by Covid-19 under conditions of extreme vulnerability. We need to work together to prevent the pandemic crisis from becoming a lasting crisis for childhood, and especially for the most vulnerable. The Catalonian Parliament is committed to promoting the following actions in order to promote the compliment of children's rights: promoting greater and more effective investment in childhood, ensuring that the resources needed to tackle these challenges, with the rights of childhood in the centre, are allocated. To take into account, in all decisions taken before the crisis and for recovery having effects on childhood and adolescence, the guiding principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child: the child's best interests, the right to life, survival and development, the right to participation and non-discrimination. Promote the actions needed to complete the objectives of sustainable development and the Paris Accord, and to turn the current crisis into an opportunity to invest in the present and future of childhood, rebuilding better and with a focus on sustainability, without losing sight of the threat of the climate crisis and its pernicious effects on childhood. Listen to the concerns and needs of infants and adolescents, and include them in a cross-cutting way in political action, promote participation to design together with them the strategies for recovery from this crisis. [[Pause.]] Promote actions that are needed to analyse the impact of Covid-19 on childhood and adolescence, especially on the most vulnerable groups, and adapt the corresponding plans and programs. Promote measures that are necessary to address the impact of the crisis on childhood and adolescence, giving priority to addressing urgent issues already identified for the Children's Rights Committee, within the framework of efforts to complement the objectives of sustainable development: strengthening the social protection system to ensure an adequate standard of living for each child; protecting and promoting the salvation of children and adolescents, with special attention to mental health and rights of children with disabilities; addressing the challenges of education and child protection, early abandonment of education and digital recruitment; ensuring that children, with special access to housing and basic services, have access to, and progressing against, children's education, early abandonment of their studies and digital recruitment; ensuring that all children, children's access to housing and basic services, all children's rights, access to children's rights, access to children's rights, access to children's rights, access to and access to children's education, children's education, children's education, children's early abandonment of children's and digital recruitment; ensuring that all children, children's access to and basic services, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children', children', children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children's rights, children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children', children Finally, they recognize the problems and multiple challenges facing them, the Catalonian Parliament reaffirms its commitment to the deployment of actions and the absolutation of results in favour of childhood at local, national and global levels, and declares its direct commitment to infants to reimagin a world in which the right is respected and the 2030 Agenda is completed. Palau del Parlament, November 18, 2020. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.129.0	Thank you, first secretaries. [[Comparison of the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to report on the further steps taken by the Government to contain the epidemic outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[350-00018/12]] Let's move on to the third point of the order of the day, which is the appearance of the Vice-President of the Government before the plenary, to report on the further steps taken by the Government to contain the epidemic outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. As he has requested this appearance, we will begin with the intervention of the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès, who will then give step to the Councillors of Interior and Health, Councillor Alba Vergés and Councillor Sàmper, respectively. So, there's the entry word for the vice president of the government. Mr. Aragones, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.130.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He will advise, advise, Members and Members, as you know, we have committed ourselves to appearing in every House of Parliament on account of the management that we are making of the state of alarm, since the state of alarm is an exceptional measure of limitation of the fundamental rights, and therefore, even though it is not necessarily foreseen, therefore, to go through parliamentary control, transparency and democratic compromise we want to submit to the consideration of this chamber. An exercise of transparency and democratic quality, because, as we have said, the state of alarm must not go to the detriment of fundamental and fundamental questions, such as the proper functioning of democratic institutions. I will not enlarge, because we have granted to the parliamentary groups that, therefore, on this occasion, the Councillor Vergés and the Councillor Sàmper who will intervene on behalf of the Government, but who, according to the Rules, strictly, therefore correspond to who exercises the functions of the Presidency in the function of the Generality, in this case, to make use of this process of appearance, so that after informing the Councillors. They will inform them in a comprehensive manner of the evolution of the pandemic and of the application of the state of alarm, but before I would like to state that, according to the latest health data, we are doing well, healthily. That the measures taken, however hard, are yielding their fruits. And they managed to extend a strict home confinement, which for many days was a real hypothesis, which was above the table. We have overcome the worst of the second wave, in terms of health. In fact, in today's data, with 2,402 patients admitted, 574 to the ICU, these two indicators are lower than yesterday. The risk of rebound is 390. And the cumulative incidence passed past November 2nd, to be 838 for every hundred and thousand inhabitants in the last fourteen days, to 546 in the last available data, which correspond to November 14th. The transmission rate, the rate of virus growth, has decreased below 1 from many days ago and is at 0.76. A few weeks ago we set the goal of placing the transmission rate below 1, which was achieved; that it should be accompanied to have less than a thousand cases of daily contact, yet we duplicate them, and to have a maximum of three hundred beds to the ICU, occupied by Covid ills, which, although they are diminishing, we have not yet reached this level. The first objective is to consolidate it. And the number of infected diaries is already stabilized around two thousand people. We have to continue, for this; we start from six thousand daily cases in the algid point, but now the trend is clearly downwards. And we still have the objective of the ICUs. These three indicators must serve us to enter a new stage, but until we get there, we have to make decisions so that we can pass – and they pass from the coming dilluns – for the flexibility of some measures. Therefore, all the effort is giving its fruit. And the effort that, as I said, is of the health professionals, of the professionals of the essential services, but also the effort of the entrepreneurs, of the workers and the workers, of the families, who see limited their activity. For this reason, I do not want to miss the opportunity to give thanks to the city council, for the effort and sacrifice, because we are ready to start a progressive flexibility. The government's advisors and advisors carry days of intense work, so as to design how this flexibility of measures is to be. And it will continue to work so that, therefore, it explains the definitive measures taken once there are all the details and it is possible to communicate it. We need to close the rear locks, but this measure, this flexibility will be slower than we all want, because we're not in a generalised security scene. And why did the experience of spring and summer last us recommend a relaxation of the accelerated measures. The best advice is to move forward slowly and always looking at the evolution of healthcare data, so as to encourage flexibility or even, if you have to take a new step back, that in no case we want to do so. Step by step, and with security. Consolidate the good trend and avoid false steps to want to run mass, which force us to stop again, because it also has social and economic consequences. All of us, all of us, are hoping that this evil will end. That Covid-19 evil. And the only thing we want to do is get back to normal. : to be able to go to work, to be able to go to see our opinions and ideas, to be able to go to university the students of this country, or to be able to go back to friends, which we haven't seen in too long. This is the only news we want to hear. May they hug again, without infecting anyone. But until the bulk of the city is protected and vaccinated, and the pandemic under control, this will not be possible. We also want to be clear and honest. That is why it is very important that, beyond the very weeks, despite flexibility, we do not fail to act with the responsibility shown these days. In no case do we raise social maturity or eliminate measures aimed at restricting social mobility. We'll only flexibilitize them. Because, despite the positive trend, the situation continues to feel difficult. Let's conjure ourselves, therefore, to finish overcoming this second, the hardest situation we are already healthily leaving behind. And above all, let us conjure ourselves to avoid a third wave during the winter and before the vaccine arrives. Thank you very much, honourable Members. Next, the Vergés Councillor and the Sàmper Councillor will take the word on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.131.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's the inside counselor, Mr. Sàmper, coming up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.132.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin this intervention expressing, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, the most sincere condolences for those people who, as a consequence of this pandemic, have left us, and also for those people who are painting this disease. As we all know, we are currently ahead of the toughest crisis in the past, probably the last hundred years at the level, if not health care. Unprecedented crisis. Faced with this emergence, I have made it clear at all times that the salvation of Catalans and Catalans is the most important. And for that, we are taking all the necessary steps to get some figures that allow us to return to normality, to mobility without restrictions. And to be able to carry out all those activities that currently cannot last long, always following – this yes – the measures of prevention. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the entire structure of the Department of Interior is engaged in permanent work and all our bodies are activated in order to be able to manage the emergency: Civil Protection, Squad Mousses and Bombers. In parallel, we have the condition in 112 and in Transit. Highlight in a very special way, the involvement and coordination of all local police in Catalonia. And therefore, the firm will to share decisions with the territory and the local world. Today, before this second wave, we observe on the part of the citizenry a general compliment. A compliment that is explained by the responsibility of the citizenry, that they understand that restrictions are very hard, tight and heavy, but that, as indicated by the health authorities, they are necessary. Thanks to this effort from all over the city, today we are seeing a decrease – as the vice president explained – in the epidemiological raven. We are on the right track, but we need to consolidate this clear trend. We thank – and we sincerely do – this compliment, but we must bear in mind that there will be no magic or immediate solutions, and with that I want to be very sincere. We'll start the progressive opening of activities for a few days. And we need to get to the best possible conditions. Be careful: we must go little by little; we cannot run now that we are on the right path. In relation to this future element, as we can do this re-opening, we want to translate from the inside – and in concrete terms, from the Civil Protection – that we believe is important not so much when it comes to avoiding a third wave – not so much when, but how. There must have been a change of habits; a change in the structural elements, which helps us, among all, to avoid new situations as we are living. It is important that people are aware that we must go with great care and protection. We can't make crowd gatherings. We cannot have much social interaction and all these structural changes are reduced to five questions, which, if we are able to get through, will certainly go very well: distance, hands, mask, ventilation and reduction of social activity. These five elements are, without any doubt, the key to reducing these third-hand risks, the key to reducing possible rebounds. Tasks developed at the level of Civil Protection. The emergency situation resulting from the Covid-19 involved the activation of the action plan – the Procicate – for emergencies associated with emerging communicable diseases with high risk potential. This plan, as you know, establishes the operational and directional structure necessary to ensure the coordination of the response of emergencies to Catalonia. And from the inside, we bring the experience in managing these types of situations, which allows us to know the difficulties of applying emergency measures that involve limitations of activities to our people. Experience to assess the viability of the measures proposed epidemiologically, from the perspective of social behavior and possible controls. We have brought all the elements related to avoiding crowds, for example: distances, flows of mobility, entrances, exits. We are – and this is very important – the direct interlocutors with the assemblies. We know the problems that the mayors, the local Civil Protection technicians, the local police have coming to us, and this allows us to modulate the plans to respond to these needs. In this sense, through the Process, 133 plans have been processed and analyzed and approved; 65 for the phase of decontainment, and 68 for the Generality's regulations for the recovery phase. These plans, which draw up the departments responsible for each sector of activity, are evaluated and adjusted by a mixed technical team of Civil Protection, Interior and Health, which studies each plan proposal. Until Salut and Interior don't give the vistiplau, it's not processed in the Procicate. It should be noted that, unlike the majority of causes that activate the Procicate, when the emergence is of salvation, always prevails the criteria of the health authorities. All these plans, these lines of action, have been developed, worked and improved from the hands of the affected sectors. In this way, with the need for health care and epidemiology as well as the mark of action, there has been a surgical work to adapt to the social and economic needs. No one can escape that this second answer to a binomial between a concern for health and a social and economic concern. In the current situation, since the Directorate-General for Civil Protection, an internal strategic plan has been developed, which faces the best of the emergence so much if there is a hint of the situation with the imminent arrival, for example, of the winter and the clear fall of the temperatures and the days assigned, as for example, the celebrations of the parties of Nadal. As for example, also for the later recovery phase. This strategic plan is used to enhance the four basic pillars of action in the emergency: strategic planning, operational coordination, local support and awareness and communication to the population. To promote this strategy effectively and effectively, it will create a multidisciplinary team of specialists in the four above-mentioned areas, to strengthen civil protection functions in the planning, awareness, coordination and management units of the emergency. These actions are strategic and essential at this very delicate moment. The creation of this group, of this team, allows to give response to the needs detected at the length of this emergence and to straighten the course when it needs to be corrected. For what he does to the police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra. They stop from the last decisions established in the Process, and with the premise of reducing the mobility of the citizens of Catalonia, Mossos d'Esquadra has established a provision with the objective of ensuring the compliment of the measures established to Royal Decree 926, of 2020, of October 25, for which it is declared – as you know – the state of alarm and the measures taken by the Government for the management of the pandemic. With the initial statement of the state of alarm, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra established the operating plan Oris, to define the functions, the mobilization of resources of the police, to organize the response and determine the police operation during this health crisis, and in coordination always with the rest of the operating groups of the Procicat. During this crisis, related police interventions aim to prevent suspicious activities and services, to prove that mobility is in line with the permitted assumptions and always with the purpose of explaining and seeking the collaboration of the citizens. The special measures in the field of public health to contain the epidemic outbreak are constantly updated – sometimes, daily – and vary according to the municipalities, and require on the part of the agents a constant effort of continuous updating in the regulations, which can be explained. Among the main measures of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra..., have been adopted basically five, since we have the decree of alarm and night confinement. A first, the intensive vigilance of public space and communications. The police device provides for fixed and dynamic checkpoints to the main cities of the territory and to the network of reelers to prove that the displacements that are due to end-of-life come within the exceptions allowed. On 14 and 15 November, for example, 2,738 complaints of failure to comply with the restrictions were made, and on 16 November, 31,044 complaints of failure to comply with the restrictions were made cumulatively. The closure of establishments required to suspend their activities is also monitored. The last week-end has closed twenty-and-seven establishments, and has not closed 549 since the beginning of the second wave of contagious diseases. Second line: the protection of the citizenry and especially of the most vulnerable collectivities. In this situation of state of alarm we can find enough, many, that are actually in this situation of vulnerability. Therefore, the Contingency Plan continues to apply to victims of male and domestic violence and other vulnerable victims, with the intention of preserving possible cases of violence against women, ill-treatment in the family environment, such as child abuse, situations of filial violence or abuse of large people. It will also strengthen attention to people who are not at home, especially vulnerable at this time of the year of greater meteorological rigour, and who also require special sensitivity, and it will make it easier for them to have the necessary support and assistance resources available to each municipality. Thus, for the protection of vulnerable persons, operational instructions have been given to carry out the compliment of the measures set out in Decree-Law 37/2020, strengthening the protection of the right to housing in the face of the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. The third element is the strengthening of prevention measures for police stations, in order to securely meet the demands of the citizenry. Working on a pre-date system accessible from the web page to control the zoom and avoid unnecessary waits. Fourth element or line of work: information to the citizenry, in a transparency exercise, and this is because there has been an increase in scams in electronic commerce. He's making a higher use of this kind of Internet shopping and the delinquent adapts to it. I can make sure they're safe. This information can be found on the website of the Mossos, and others, for the sake of secure purchases, and other safety tips in different areas. Five and last elements of these lines of work: coordination with local police to give compliments to the curfew and to do those controls and inspections that are deemed appropriate. Allow me to be a little in this coordination with the local police. In this context caused by the health emergency, 215 local police units in Catalonia have carried out various actions to contain the risk of infection and mitigate its consequences for the citizenry. In this sense, highlight the activities of the police assistance, the control of the mobility, the security of the citizen and the administrative police, aimed at completing the restrictions processing almost 50_percent of the acts of complaint in order not to comply with the restrictive norms inserted in the decree of state of alarm. On the other hand, it highlights the important task of monitoring the population informing, advising, following the most vulnerable and often providing calm mediating in situations of a certain tension. To coordinate its task, the task of the local police of Catalonia, the General Directorate of Police Coordination of Catalonia has worked in three lines. The first, collaborating, as in the past, with the joint bodies to facilitate the availability of resources for police organizations, to increase the capacity to connect to the Police Information System – SIP – or to advise on the urgent appointment of new staff, at the same time as the reductions produced for the pandemic. The second line, facilitating the regulation with the measures provoked by the different authorities, as well as reports, interpretative criteria or recommendations to the municipality in the Marc del Procicato and the public health service. And the third and last, making available to local police documentation standardized so that it was the same for all the police of Catalonia, standardizing the forms, for example, the denunciation acts, as well as the procedure of the handling of the processing. For what it does to 112, it respects the management of the Center of Attention and Management of Emergency Trucades of 112 of Catalonia, CAT112, the volume of tricks is kept within the margins of the forecasts and annual service plans. At the end of October, the incidence of operational tricks for Covid had a rebound over about a thousand days, doubling, yes, the September ones, which were around six-cents. I'll explain to you four dates that I think you need to know, and that you're putting data off on November 16th. For what it does to the administrative complaints, the night of diumeng to diluuns Mossos and the local police raised 915 complaints; the total of the week's head in was 2,738, and since the inici, of October 16, are 31,044– 14,284 instructed for Mossos d'Esquadra, 16,760 instructed for the local police. As for complaints to establishments, the night of diumenge to diluns will close three, and the total of the week's head, twenty-i-sep. For the identification of people, the night of diumenge to dilluns, 2,950; the head of the week, 7,259; and the total in the period..., since we are in this second and with these elements of restriction, 69,493– 13,168, to Mossos d'Esquadra, 56,325, to the bodies of local police. The activities that are most difficult to accomplish for the citizenry are felt to be private parties, which are done in private cases, as said, and where is exceeded the number of persons allowed for regulation. I also want you to know that, although there is a sense of lack of security – and this one server has been able to detect at all the local security joints that have gone from as far as advising – the fact is that we had a half a crime, which was the past year, from 1,783 to the whole of Catalonia, huh? 1,783; this was reduced this year to 1,247, therefore, by about five hundred. And even to tell them that this week's head, as much disbanded as diumenge, there were-there were fewer than seven hundred crimes a day across the country. On the other hand, for what he does at the thefts, the year passed the middle day of November was 583 and we are currently in 310, practically at 50_percent of the middle, since we have activated the device Oris; for example, the past day we have had 129 thefts. As for the reduction of mobility between municipalities, it has been effective since it is in operation, and there has been an important reduction that I summarize in four data. The reference is the following: there has been an increase, as you know, you said them as a lot of citizens understood that it is time to go out, the head of the week. As you know, this week's head starts with the night touch, the night confinement, of the same saying, and, therefore, the saying, therefore, is producing an important increase, which is from 8.6 to the metropolity, in concrete to the tolls of Mollet and Vallcarca, and from 16 and a half percent in the great corridors like, for example, the Rock and Martorell. To say that this increase does not have to be worrying about the objective of reducing mobility, because, despite the increase in you say, there is a very important decrease of what would be a normal week-end selling late or even disbanding in the morning. There has been, or there has been, a decrease in the mobility of 40_per_cent in the metropolis and 35_per_cent in the great corridors; it is still more than this decrease, and it is 80_per_cent in the metropolis and 74_per_cent in the great corridors, and it reduces the decrease by 85_per_cent in the metropolis and 79_per_cent in the great corridors. I'm done. The situation is complicated – the vice president explained it. The Vergés Councillor will give us the data at the level of salvation. The situation of better is important and uplifting. Therefore, I think we need to make it very clear that the actions taken from Salvation have had the result we hoped for – explained them in detail by the vice president – but we do not need to raise the level of alert. We are ahead of a chain of responsibility that we are all absolutely involved in, absolutely all. All concerns are valid – all concerns are valid. The binomial of health and society, or social and economic issues, is a binomial that has settled in society, which is completely legitimate and therefore what we have to do is have this double view of what this pandemic supposes. The measures due to Health are making it possible to reinforce the preventive part of a harsh, very hard pandemic, and the results of the measures taken for Health we already have, I repeat – the Vice President has explained it to us and now the Councillor will tell us. It's a time of complicated balance: salvation and the economy. Very complicated. But among all of us, we must be able to pull this balance forward and be able not to break this chain of solidarity from all folds. I end up with a thank you for everyone who works with me. We've made a detail of everything that goes through the Interior – now it's going to be our advisor to what goes through the Health Department – but I want to thank all the people who represent the bodies and who have demonstrated their professionalism to age for the well-being of Catalans and Catalans. His personal dedication to crisis management has been exemplary from a principle, and we are convinced that it will be in the future. Thank you so much for all the work you're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.133.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's coming back to the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies. We're here, we're here thanks to the effort of everyone. Now they can't put the guard down. We've taken measures, measures that are tough for all of society. We have advanced with these measures which many European countries have also had to undertake in this second wave; measures which affect society as a whole; measures which also affect economic activities and are taken to stop the second wave and to bend the crow. And we did, we doubled the crow of the second wave, this epidemiological crow of cases. We've acted with the effort of all of us in this situation, much better than we had a_me back. Much better epidemiological situation, much better care situation too, in the sense that the perspective is good for bending the crow. On 23 November, we saw that, as we committed ourselves, we started a plan to reopen activities, also necessary to do what we have always said: find the best balance between living in a pandemic situation and this security in the health of the people, which is absolutely priority, and the balance of the vitality of the country, of the social and economic vitality of our country. That effort of all of us has brought us all here. From many months ago, and in a very raw way, from what we lived from March to the first, which we also overcame with total confinement, and which we have now been able to cope with in the first place without resorting to drastic measures of total confinement. The situation will still require us for a long time, and that is why we need to be very conscious, we need to explain it and that is why we are here in the Parliament of Catalonia. We're far away, yes, even though we're in a good situation, that's obvious, but we've traced the path and we're on the right path. We're on the tornado road. Thanks to everyone's effort we've come to stop the second wave. Thanks to everyone, to individuals, to the efforts of affected sectors, to the professionals of the health system, who have been there all the time since March and who continue to be there, thanks to all this effort. Also, thanks to all this, now we can't lower the guard. For a band, we fight the virus, improve the health system and explain the situation to the citizenry. We always explain this with a clear objective, to improve how we act as a society, as a citizen, as a people, as individuals and as a collective to deal with this virus, to deal with an epidemic; we explain the situation to improve constantly how we can deal with the epidemic. We fight the virus and we have fought it from the principle with different levels of knowledge as well. Since the month of March, when the care impact came to us, it forced us to make strenuous efforts like the health system and to keep the health professionals living an epidemic situation that seemed like a war situation, we have increased diagnostic skills dramatically. We already carry more than three million PCRs, almost two hundred thousand antigen tests; we have not bought eight million, antigen tests, to deploy the testing and screening strategy and control the epidemic to our society. We control residences, where people are very vulnerable to this virus, and we also deploy professional screenings with antigen tests on a weekly basis, without abandoning these screenings and tests with PCR that will continue to be carried out on a periodic basis, too. We carry more than 210,000 PCRs and almost five thousand antigen tests in residences and this must continue. And it'll be that way for a long time. We've improved the tracking system from the beginning to now, and we're continuing to make efforts. There are already more than 2,800 professionals of different types involved in this tracking circuit. From the detection of cases, which is mostly to primary attention, the whole tracking circuit is engaged, with Covid Reco managers, who are the referents for the schools, where we have started and opened the schools and the schools are working and also have them controlled, for which it does the epidemic, from the health system in collaboration with the education system, the scouts; reinforcing also the 061, multiplying by three positions of attention to people, because it has increased demand and also obviously we tripled this effort in the 061 to give answers. And we also fight the virus with measures when we are needed at the place where we are needed, strictly as far as possible, as we have to do all of Europe, always trying to advance us, to anticipate to the one who gives us the data, to the one who shows us the ravens, to the one who shows us our reports of experts in the prediction ravens how they will evolve in order to be able to act as early as possible ; as we have already done in this second day, that we have managed to stop the second day, we have managed to double the epidemiologic raven and, obviously, now we have to consolidate this download that will make us possible a scene of being able to recover, from the 23rd day, more active. Millorm the system. We already did, that first time, multiplying by three the ICUs we have. Now made structurally, up to nine hundred ICUs, and more so, adding, therefore, all the spaces we also have in construction. We have incorporated from March to September, almost 3,300 professionals to primary care. A primary attention that has not rested, has made the detection and follow-up of cases of all the epidemic, and that, obviously, has not ceased to be tense and its professionals have not failed to answer neither the Covid nor all the other problems of salvation of our society. Spaces are a fault we've found ourselves facing double circuits. Spaces in the primary, necessary attention, that we have worked in collaboration with the assemblies of our country. Spaces with the construction of new facilities also hospitals, with annexed hospitals, reference hospitals of different territories: the Arnau de Vilanova, de Lleida ; the Germans Trias and Pujol, de Badalona ; the Hospital de Bellvitge, de l'Hospitalelet ; the Moisès Broggi, and also the Parc Sanitari Pere Virgili, de Barcelona. A band to incorporate also, in the health system of Catalonia dependent on the Generality, three hospitals – and a properament –: Móra d'Ebre, Reus, Berga and, properament, Valls. And obviously, with primary attention, it fits into the response to Covid too, and in the transformation of the whole health care system with this primary care enhancement plan, with 300_million euros, where it is planned by 2022, incorporate also 3,800 professionals..., needing technological reversal and recover, obviously, the primary as a vertebrator of the whole system, and make the necessary transformation to adapt to the needs of our society. We fight the virus, we improve the system and explain the situation. We explain this because we want to constantly improve how we act to cope with this virus. Thanks to all this and all this effort, today is better than three weeks ago. Three weeks ago we had a risk of rebounding for over a thousand to all of Catalonia, with a push that was fast, strong, intense, as many European countries have also experienced. With a transmission rate..., a transmission rate of 1.64, much higher than 1, and so, that led us to a speed of going doubling every seven days the cases we could have. With some confirmed cases at a time when we're not detecting many and we're on our way to looking for the virus, of 32,000 confirmed people, more managed it by all their contacts from these 32,000 people. The health system has followed these cases and these contacts of thousands of people every week, week after week, with absolute attention. This last week, today, we're at risk of a 390 rebound. We went from 1047 to 390, with a Rt of 0'76, keeping us down, where we need to be: down. Recover an epidemic control situation that we want to maintain at length of time, and with sixteen_ thousand confirmed cases. As we have managed to bend the crow, to be in this situation, and fortunately, the perception of the people is not what we had in March and April, despite the confirmation of cases, because we detect them, we go and look for them in our health centers and hospitals, but we do not have a situation like what we had in June, when we started the dam phase. At that time the risk of rebound was 14, today we have in 390. The confirmed cases were 530, today we have 16,312. The entrances to the hospital for Covid were 295, today we have 2,458. The UCI tickets were seventy-three, today we have almost six hundred. The difference is clear, the preparation, at these times, there is also, fighting the virus, improving the system. But, what do we say, as is our action to deal with this virus? Keeping us in our living bottles, reducing social interaction as much as we can, has allowed us, with these measures, and continues to allow us, to go down, to control the epidemic in a comprehensive way and to allow a much more robust balance with the vitality of the country. Keeping us in the bin is essential and we need to be able to explain to the people doing that activity that is the most essential, and so we will be for many weeks and months. We have succeeded in this second wave – and not all European countries are succeeding – in maintaining all the activity of the schools; open schools, schools where every day children, young people and adolescents in our country continue to learn and do not lose a year of training, which, because of this equality of opportunities that we always fight, is so necessary. We keep the schools, we keep all possible jobs, all the industry working, the service sectors working, except for these periods of intense measures affecting certain sectors. The rest of us have managed to do this without going to the reception of residential confinements and confinements like the month of March. Other countries have closed schools, other countries have closed all the essential trade, food and basic products. And we, with open schools, kept the trade open, and kept the work of thousands, too, of people, we managed to put up with the second wave, bend the crow and be on the way down. And the receipts continue to feel the same: distance, hands, mask; reduce social interaction, reduce everything we can do with the basic norm of the virus. The virus is transmitted as we find ourselves, as we interact with people and that we can transmit it to another person. This is the base of the whole fold. And that's why we fight the virus from the Catalonian health system, with the efforts of all professionals. We are also billions of people in the system because they can work and give the best response to the citizenry, but we need solidarity and the involvement of everyone. Now we will face, from the 23rd, a re-opening plan, also necessary; necessary, obviously, because, as we have always said, we are looking for the best balance. This country effort, which is a mark with which we have left our skin as the country, since March we have left our skin, literally. We can't spoil this effort, we have to have a cure. And on the line that, like society, we need to be able to defend ourselves from this virus and we need to be able to take care of ourselves. With this team of 7 million people to fight. And here we include all the ingenious work that is done by the administrations, we include the health professionals, but we include each person individually in everything we do. Let's increase the reversal. We've put resources in the service of our people. We have the system and its professionals very tense, we know that, but there is an answer. Much work remains to be done, we accompany and help at all to still have the best system and also to make those transformations that touch, but we are far and wide still in this excellent situation. Solidarity is what has always marked us as the country. Solidarity. We need everyone's help, we need everyone. Solidarity with the health professionals, solidarity with the sectors that suffer most, solidarity with the people who are now painting the Covid and other diseases. There is no right, there is effort from everyone, there is a combination of all possible strategies to accompany the people, there is effort to collect the capdavall. We are people who individually total all this effort. We're here, so thanks to everyone's efforts. Now we can't lower the guard, but there are and always be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.135.0	Thank you, Counselor. The representatives of parliamentary groups and sub-groups will then speak. And, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.136.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. First, to offer our condolences to all those who have died in the last two weeks because of the Covid, this pandemic, and also our encouragement on behalf of my group, from Ciutadans, to all those sick and their families who are suffering from this disease, and also to all those who suffer from its economic effects: to the workers and to the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to all those who are affected by the economic consequences of this crisis. Mr Aragonès and Mrs Vergés and Mr Sàmper, in these two weeks, since they appeared in the past plenary, you have been more focused on the partisan struggles of the Government than on the fight against the coronavirus and the economic crisis. During these two weeks and the previous, the Catalans have complied with all the restrictions that hit their economic survival, and have complied with all the sacrifices that were demanded of them from the Government with responsibility and cyvism. But you have not paid them with the same coin, we have seen you splashed by scandals of corruption and causing chaos with the autonomous who are with the water around their necks. You spend the day talking about the happy archadia of independence, the evil Spanish state, and when it comes time to do something good for the people and distribute the help they promised, you have left behind and without help to the self-employed and you will continue to step on their necks for another ten days. Look, restrictions are not necessary, restrictions are necessary when you want to curb the contagion curve, but you can't tell those on the dry dock that there is neither aid nor relief from restrictions, nor aid or relief from restrictions. There are other communities like, for example, Madrid, where people have been able to continue to earn bread and contagion because they are responsible and comply with health measures. We'll tell you again, Mr. Aragonès. While we have had more than a month of closure here, in Madrid there is also a decrease in contagion, the pandemic also bends, but the economic survival of the citizens is also guaranteed and the workers and the self-employed are not held in their necks. Because your model, Mr Aragonès, is basically to attack the state, to say that the government does not have enough money while announcing the « Catalan NASA, to not pay the aid and to bet on a rescue if anyone can, to leave ten more days on the dry dock to the bars and restaurants while we see how you are meeting with your friends to close public contracts, and after the chaos caused by the help of the self-employed and because of the battles between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, you are now dedicated to purging work teams to cover up your own incompetence. The management of the residences was a disaster. Mr. Counselor El Homrani has been missing a long time, and when he shows up it's to give more uncertainty. It was better that he had assumed his responsibilities in the first person and that he had gone home. Yesterday you launched a new probe balloon to divert attention from the lock without taking into account the affected sectors that have been unanimously left behind for this or to consult with the parliamentary groups. After that, they announced insufficient, restrictive measures, again without financial aid, do not invest in resources, do not plan anything, everything goes up in the woods and, moreover, it seems that the measures they announced yesterday turn out that today it seems – again – that they are going to change. It seems that you, instead of thinking about the measures, agreeing to and applying them and notifying them and agreeing with those affected, to what you do is to throw probe balloons and then contradict yourself by hitting what you see in the press or what you say to each other. Today it seems that they have already made that change of opinion, apart from leaving the table where the Covid measures are decided, on the part of Esquerra Republicana, and due to their struggles with the other part of the government. And what we would do, if we were in this government, is follow the example that other autonomous communities have given, where they have not made such harsh closures of sectors or if they have done so, have accompanied them by consensus among all political forces with the sectors affected and with aid. For example, Mr Aragonès, in Castile and León, which has been done this way. But Madrid, for example, the bars are open and the curfew is until twelve, and there is also bending the curve. It is that here we have never been given, there has never been a direct relationship between that closure, as agreed, in the way it was agreed and improvised and imposed, it has never been possible to explain its true usefulness. And now it turns out that we see how in other places, without these drastic measures, the curve also bends. But do you know why he bends? Because in the other communities what has been done is confinements by massive areas and tests, not just closing. That is how resources are dedicated and managed; you neither manage nor dedicate resources, and in the meantime you either reject or do not have time to implement the proposals we make to you from the opposition. We in Parliament have proposed a lot of measures to help those affected. For example, deductions in the 2020 IRPF's autonomous tranche; for example, microcredits for those who are going through the worst..., that those who are going through the worst can bear the crisis; automate the management of subsidies and aid so that the processing, management and recovery of benefits are kept to a minimum; a plan of aid also for the reconciliation of the self-employed with dependent children or relatives in quarantine periods. This winter will be very hard and you would have to prepare the economy already, because this crisis will not give a second chance to many Catalans who are without income. While you are leading the debate on budgets to beat the Spanishman, to exclude what in organic law as a language to vehicular in the autonomous communities, we are talking about other things in Congress other than those you, of Republican Left, put on the table. And it is our orange lines that have already involved direct savings of 800_million, which will go into the pocket of millions of SMEs, self-employed and families in Catalonia. Thanks to Ciutadans, they will not all be punished for the tax increases they intended to impose from Podemos and its allies; there will be no increase from the IRPF for self-employed and middle-class working families, saving 100_million_euros, families and middle-class; there will be no increase in VAT for both agreed and special education, saving 250_million_euros. All these savings of millions of euros are for now, they are for the financial year 2020, which starts in January. That is to agree on measures, the budgets are already here and serve to deal with that year of economic crisis. There are other measures, which I cannot tell you for lack of time, which we have already achieved with our negotiation, but in those budgets, which are going to be essential for all Catalans, we are trying to close direct aid for those who have to close their business: 1,500 million aid; 1,500 million more to support the Catalan tourism sector; to boost transport with aid of almost 200 million; to support dependence with an additional 100 million EUR. And that, in short, is to defend the interest of Catalans; not like you going to Congress to throw stones between Junts per Cat and Esquerra and to ask for the exclusion of Castilian in schools to be shielded. From Ciutadans we will not tolerate it and we will fight until the last moment to prevent it. I would like to know which of your Government is meeting with the Government of Spain to defend the interests of Catalans affected by the crisis. You have not coordinated with the Government of Spain either with regard to the restrictions or to demand a support plan with sufficient budget for the sectors concerned. And speaking of funds, yesterday you announced that you will receive another nearly 800_million Covid-19 state funds out of the 3,200 that correspond to Catalonia. What are you going to spend it on, Mr. Aragonès? Can Catalans be sure that this money will go to combat the pandemic and improve, for example, primary care? What are they going to do with that money? Just in the face of the shadow of corruption that exists over your Government and to explain how you are using the public resources of all Catalans, we have proposed a full monograph, which we see is that you are in no hurry. There is still little more than a month left for this Parliament to dissolve and the Catalans begin to walk the way towards the February 14 elections. In Congress we have already seen what you are dedicated to, blackmailing the government to achieve some prebend that hides the failures of this decade of process. In Catalonia we still have a few months of not having anyone at the helm of the ship, which sails nowhere, with thousands of families in ruin because you have not paid the aid, and yet you have extended the restrictions to leave them without any kind of income. But I want to reaffirm Ciutadans' commitment to govern for all Catalans. We are going to continue to make proposals to protect the health of all, without leaving the middle classes drawn up and without aid, and we are going to continue to monitor you for the days remaining from the legislature so that your intestinal struggles, between separatism, and your corruption scandals, do not divert us from the only important objective, which is to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.137.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.138.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality; advisors, counselors... I begin, as I am obliged, to express our condolences for the victims, their families, their friends and friends, to give souls to the people who are struggling at these times against the disease and to give support to all doctors, nurses and health personnel who are fighting in the first line. We are here again to follow up on the measures taken by the Government of the Generality in the past few days and weeks, and to analyse the health, social and economic impact of these decisions. But I want to start with a message of hope: the measures of restriction of activity and mobility that have taken place in the wake of this new state of alarm are giving as a result the slowing down of the spread, reduction and stabilization of the rate of reproduction of the virus. It is true that we still have a number of daily cases in Catalonia – they are, to me, 2,124 the last few figures we have rejected – and we also know that, unfortunately, the pressure on the health system is still very high, but the restrictive measures are giving results; and we must say to encourage us to persevere, not to lower the guard, as the Health Counselor welcomed. It is true that the last few weeks we have gone from a containment strategy to a mitigation strategy, because the virus was too much; at these times, it is not so much about tracking, but about detecting positive people, most of them because they have symptoms, with PCR tests or the rapid test of antigens, that they warn themselves, themselves, their contacts and that they do quarantine. Unfortunately, there are still a lot of delays in this process. The transmission weeks ago is community and the volume to track continues to feel unsustainable. We believe, in our opinion, that in this process the Government continues without having adequately explained the changes in health protocols, and while the citizenry hopes with frustration that the trackers trick to follow it. At all events, we want to celebrate that we have decided to strengthen the staff dedicated to epidemiological surveillance; we seem to have made a little later, and we must also agree that the parliamentary mandate to terminate the contract with Ferrovial is incomplete. On 12 November, the Procicate decided to extend until 23 all the restrictive measures, except the reopening of the aesthetic centres. Yesterday, a proposal from the government for the gradual re-opening of activities was leaking, with great sound and generating a great disconcert. Look, I'll try to make a containment effort, and I know that maybe they can't give me the reason, but the truth is that Catalans and Catalans don't deserve this slip. Leave 'but tell them: it makes me the effect that acts with more responsibility the opposition than the same government. Before, my company, Eva Granados, reminded them that of the thirty-eight decrees you have submitted, we have given support to thirty-six. I already know that many times filtrations are inevitable, but the evil they generate..., and, vice president, believe me, you don't hold filter media accountable: media have an obligation, which is to collect information, and if there is, there is, and no one can ask them to stop giving the information to what they access. And, therefore, I ask them to make this effort, because, moreover, we are ahead of a government that is already announcing that if the elections allow it, I would like to follow the same governance scheme; I think we don't deserve it. And, therefore, in respect of the conjunction of the people, but particularly to what they have suffered most in the first line of this disease, I demand that they make this effort. Today you did not want to answer the control committee the simple question of whether or not this bias was true in the committee that has to establish the restrictive measures, but if we have to deal with all the digital and diaries that also have a digital edition, then this has been so. I place them that solve this question immediately, we can't afford a minute longer. I trust that the decision that is finally taken will follow health and epidemiological criteria, and therefore I have already announced them: they have our support – they have our support –; it cannot be in any other way, from our point of view. Now, let's go on to say: it is much better that I could have agreed before and take parallel measures to rescue the affected sectors than to follow them the way they have done so far. Leadership means mobilizing resources, and it's urgent to mobilize them all. From our point of view, the Government is not acting as effectively as possible, nor is it using all the resources at its disposal. Let me give you a few examples: the autonomes – we did not speak very much this morning –..., hundreds of thousands of autonomes who have long felt that they were the future, that they deserved to reward entrepreneurship, and, in turn, now they find that they have to participate in a marathon species to have a help..., or, well, better..., no, marathon, no, sprint, because it was trying to get the first ones, to have a help, a help that would eventually allow them to overcome with pens and treballs the situation in which they find themselves. We are victims of a bad computer system, yes, but not only; we thought there was a problem in the design of this help. Today, Councillor Tremosa told us that there have been other measures planned in another way; so let's hope that this is for the good of everyone. Now, the system that the first one above, first takes away, cannot be a good criteria for establishing such necessary help. He seems to have taken some responsibility, at least partially. The executive team of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families has been changed. Let's just say: there are a lot of people who have doubts as to whether it was about changing the team or changing the head of the department. But, anyway, that's his responsibility. About the choices. Last week his government recognized that 90_percent of the three_1,000 schools in Catalonia do not have adient connectivity. It can't be. And, therefore, we demand that they move forward in a very, very, very clear, very round way. And, therefore, fewer aerospace adventures and more ensuring the connectivity of the schools. Social entities. If Isdeu 256_million euros, 63_per_cent is a debt of the Generality. 94 per cent of these entities will close with losses. And you, in addition, promised to incorporate into the residences of 1,800 professionals. We haven't heard from him yet. Therefore, we ask ourselves: celerity, efficiency, transparency. You're saying no, but we're still seeing in the numbers that you're providing a 891-million escreix that aren't applying in the middle of the health crisis. Before the end of the year the State will have transferred 3,225_million euros, plus the additional 0.2_per_cent of the deficit target, which will be 420_million more. Therefore, there are resources. Surely not everyone we want, that's always the way it is. The State, all the way, also said that with these things it will be flexible. What we're asking is that they're in the same hurry to spend as they did to claim. What a vagina you're compassing with. I don't know if it's that you share the thesis of President Torra, who said that the main obstacle to independence was the same autonomy. Clearly, if that's the way I can understand that I don't have much interest that autonomy works well, but his obligation to Catalonia's citizens is to make autonomy work well with the skills and resources of those who have it. That's why he leads, which we don't know how to see at these times. Every now and then, and I've recognized it many times: I give by fact that all governments make the most of it, that all this is exceeding us in a lot. But they ask him to make an effort to move certainly, trust the citizenry. And this can only be done with information, of the good, not of the filtering, with concertation and with efficiency with the management of public resources. Otherwise, the citizenry is a collateral victim of the government's mismanagement. And these contradictory messages. I know that sometimes we all have a lot of time to communicate what can be good news, but we don't do it until they are, because, in a context of trams, phases, levels of transmission of the virus that vary every day, so, at these times, there is a lot of confusion between public opinion, and I think that from Parliament, but particularly from the government, we have to fight this. And, above all, what we want, is that maybe we'll get a third dinner. We don't want to cry out bad weather, and that's probably why. Some of them are a little more firm and they say we're sure to keep it. Home, think about it. It seemed good to me, it seemed to me that she was Councilwoman Budo..., said "we are not yet climbing. And it's true, we're not downhill. Now, we trust that one day we will be able to do it; we trust that one day we will have well-established criteria, that we will not try to run more than the account, that we all recognize that we ran more than the account, perhaps, before the summer. And that we therefore have the criteria well-established, that we have now, yes, we have, already, the mechanisms of vigilance and tracking; that we have the tests of antiques, because it is true that it is not so, so sure, but it certainly allows us to have information much faster. End the re-implantation – if this expression can be used – of primary care. There are still many centers that are closed and that, therefore, cannot perform their functions at the expense of hospital emergencies and of the citizens' own salvation. It is true that it is necessary to ensure care capacity. If new waves come, we will have to reproduce double circuits at the health centres, and therefore we must make this effort now. And then say to them: there are diseases that do not have the Covid but that have very severe diseases, and we must recognize that we are not sufficiently prepared, sometimes, to give answer with celerity. Mass visits, mass diagnostic tests have been cancelled, and this has resulted in a deterioration of the possibilities of salvation and life of many people. Miri, President-in-Office, or as President-in-Office, we want the government to lock him up; the government to do it well; the government, in this inter-initiation period, does not see its ability to act badly. I tell you again, I'm counting on us for who I'm looking for. But above all, you yourself are increasing the level of self-requirement, because Catalans and Catalans deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jéssica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.140.0	Well, thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. I, the truth is that today, after the days we're wearing, after the show we saw yesterday, so I was hoping that today you'd come here, explain to us, in a very careful way, who are serious about these reopening measures that we can see from the week you see; and swallow this confusion and this sound that we saw yesterday with the filtering, and apologize to the citizenry. I was the one waiting for the Ple d'Auui. What's going on is that what we're seeing today is that you're doing like you're not going through anything and, more importantly, the situation gets worse every time. This morning we met, through, I don't know if it's from another leak or not, that Republican Left, a part of the government, had risen from the meeting where it's supposed to take steps to fight the pandemic. I asked Mr. Aragones about the control session, and he didn't tell me or deny me; I have to give for good information that is coming out in the communication media. And I think that at a time when the citizenry is making a huge effort to be able to pull forward; when it's painted; when it's got to; when it sees its place of work spoiled; when it has to be infected; when it has thousands of professionals who are on the front line putting the stuff to take care of us and save our lives; when it has thousands and thousands of workers in the field of sport, the sector of culture, of autonomies, of shops, who are at the limit, you are dedicated – and allow it to be said this – to live as in a telenovela species, with accusations of traitors, with intrigues, with filters and, ultimately, with a lot of things that are not governed, but precisely what they are doing to overthrow this country and to continue generating. I don't know if you're aware of the evil you're doing in the country. I don't know if they're aware of it, but I'm asking them, therefore, to rectify it. You must hear each other say yes or yes until the 14th of February. This is a reality. So until the 14th of February we ask you, please, responsibility. Sensely, responsibility. They're at the people's height, which goes way ahead of the government's action, they're at the people's height. And also leave them another thought: think if the best they can offer the country is to repeat this coalition from the 14th of February. Just think about it. For the next few weeks, I would ask the government for two very simple things. The first is that they don't tide. That's to say, they don't say a thing and the counter as they speak; they don't say a thing and they do the counter, as we've seen; we have advisors and advisors who actually act as advisors and advisors and not comment on the measures they take in front of the government, as if the decisions don't go with them or with them; they allocate enough resources to all the sectors they're patenting. And so are the demands: let's start thinking about the third wave. I think there are two tasks to be done in parallel. First, let's start predicting the scenes of the next few weeks to see, so, how we're doing this re-opening. And, on the other hand, we're not late, as we saw between the first and the second. How do we muscle the system so that it can withstand this pandemic in full winter? Quite simply, we are asking for this work of planning and anticipation. And I think it's one of the big questions that needs to start working from now on. We, after the legislature we are wearing, the truth is that we do not have much hope in this government, but I do insist, as I said at the control session, I will repeat it again now: there are a few minimums, and a few minimums is that the government cannot be a problem; the government has to solve problems and, if it can anticipate to avoid them, so much better. And I think that between your partisan struggles and the intent of all of you to profile, so you often become more of a problem than a problem solving agent. We were already getting used to it – in fact, we carry this from the beginning – to the continuous bars between Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana. No longer to the principle of the legislature, but even in the midst of the pandemic for its strictly sanitary management, they are disallowing each other. But we've seen how in the past few weeks this situation has gone further. First they said that the masters should supervise the PCRs to the schools; they had to rectify. We saw his sham at the Congress of Deputies with the motivation of the thought to the totality of the assumptions, which remembers that they have a Covid background of 13,400_million euros, which Catalonia, therefore, needs. We went to hallucinate – and I say so: we went to hallucinate – with this mass of beatification with six hundred people to the Holy Family; it was supposed that you did not know anything about it, then it turns out that according to Cardinal Omella you did know, while the sector of culture was closed. We have seen the chaos – and I will no longer enter it – with the consequences after the Department of Social Affairs and Work, with the help of self-government; I will only say that when the whole dome is to be folded, so, perhaps, I believe that, simply, by honesty, by dignity, so, surely, the councillor should also be folded. We saw the battle to close or open the bars; Together for Catalonia, Republican Left, Mr. Aragonès, Mr. Tremosa, with filtering, with blowing, with confusion. We've listened to the Culture Counsellor say that surely in this second we shouldn't have shut down the culture. And we've seen a new missed opportunity to strengthen the public health system, and we're still on a contract with Railroad for €10_million for 061. As I said, something as basic as the government can't be a problem, but it has to solve the problems, so we see that this least premise you don't complete. I don't know if you think it's conventional mass, if you think it's a splinter, if it seems a little epic to you, but I think that to the common people, the people who are patting this mess and this government, I think it would seem very epic to you that you are working and working well. Mr Aragonès said: "No one is perfect. Of course not. I'm with you, nobody's perfect. But the government governments and the councillors and advisors make advisors and advisors and not commentators, so I think it's the least we can demand. That said, we insist: they are not alone – they are not alone. Before Mr. Batet said in the control session: "Well, the fight against the pandemic does not have to be just one thing of the government, all political groups must be involved. Obviously, we share it, we hold hands and one more week we come here and we want to offer our cooperation, and you know it. And before I make any proposals, I think we also need to know where we're going from. And to know the reality, better than to put it in my words, so I think it's good that they explain it or that they put it in the words of their protagonists, and that's why I'd like to read some people's testimonies that are in the front line and that's patenting, so, this situation. The Jaume Padrós, president of the Collège de Metges de Catalunya, said the other day: "We have not recovered from the detail. He continued: "Professionals are doing everything, when they haven't recovered from the first wave, especially in primary care. This has to be taken into account by the rulers. If it hits the health care system, it will hit the economy. Another witness, Alfons López Soto, head of the Hospital Clínic: "They pay us badly, every time we have fewer resources, they have not contracted the professionals we need and in the end we all pay. I believe that with the axes of two witnesses we see the tiredness of the health professionals and the shortcomings of the system. María José Carcelén, from the residential sector, bearer of public residences, said a few days ago: "We seem to start again. We detected problems in some residences at the time of properly halving Covid's ills of healthy people, and is also transferred to the plant auxiliaries. The management of the residences was a disaster in the first wave, and we fear that it is not reverting with enough celerity to this situation in the second wave. Workers of the llar. Gloria, who worked as an intern during the confinement, explains: "It's because of the help of the Food Bank because after the confinement they decided to take me out and I stayed in the street without being able to choose the weather or any help because I don't have the residence permit. It is one of the most affected, hardest hit by the crisis. Small business. Angelina Serra's witness – has a booth at Pla de l'Estany – I think it is useful to hear the patience of many small traders: "To access the government's help you have to justify that you have come a 75_per_cent less. But if I locked in red numbers last year, what do you want me to give? We're still open for the people, for the customers, even though there's four of them. We see clearly that there has been a lack of aid and that there has been a lack of courageous measures, courageous policies on the part of the Government. Education. Conxita Roca, director of the El Viver school in Montcada and Reixac: "The centres that have another student profile will get used to virtual classes quickly, but we, for our kind of student, will be much more difficult. We have to try to work because the students have the smallest learning loss possible. Therefore, they are already starting directly from a loss of learning, which only makes this school segregation that is being chronicled in Catalonia worse. The culture. Since the Association of Techniques and Techniques of the Show in Catalonia, they have insisted that the approved measures are insufficient, and, moreover, they say: "When you think about culture – it is one of the many witnesses that you could get from culture, but you thought that this was interesting – "you only have artists and creators and you leave a lot of people who also work there. These last few weeks, the counselor says she's been talking to everybody. Well, there's a lot of unions in the sector that he hasn't talked to. It is a reality of the world of culture that must also be taken into account. I believe that these six witnesses serve as an example for us to see that we cannot entertain ourselves with star battles, neither within the government nor among political forces, and that we must all work together; and we must work together to find solutions and proposals. Why haven't we met yet, why haven't we made sure to pull forward, to see who are the lowest common denominators of this national pact for the salvation that Catalonia needs? Why haven't we done it yet? Catalonia now has 152 residents of large people in a difficult situation for Covid infection: only 14 and a half percent are public residents. Why don't we internalize the private residences that are now in a worse situation, Covid? The state of trade and many small businesses also obliges me to make a petition, Mr Aragonès: spent, spent and spent – my companion Lucas Ferro gave it to him at the control session. Solid and courageous measures: the Generality's accounts can only be squared with the people in them. About education, I say, don't give me the numbers. You've announced contracts that don't just fit in with resources. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] who have reached the centers, and also lack portables for students and teachers – and I end up, a seguenet. Claride, resources and empathy – clarity, resources and empathy. This, to think and to set aside any of the measures, and also to solve any of the crises, remains health care, social or economic. And above all...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.141.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.142.0	... the government – I finish – has to solve problems, can not be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.143.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the turn of MP Carles Riera, on behalf of the CUP Subgroup - Constituent Cry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.144.0	Thank you, President. Well, it's obvious that we're ahead of a government that is failing and falling free, decomposing, with all the symptoms that this shows: sudden attacks between the government's partner parties, guided only by narrow electoralism; frequent contradictions and punches between councils with toilets and accusations that are already beginning to be common and to be in the order of the day, and now the crisis has come to the internal confrontation of the Treball, Social and Family Councillors, of Esquerra Republicana, and today itself at the command of the strategy before the pandemic. Discontrol, discoordination, contradictory messages and disorientation, this is the cruel reality of the Government of the Generality. It is a pathetic end of a political cycle in which Together for Catalonia and Esquerra succumb to the negative results of their strategies and policy options: to manage an autonomy in decline with an absolute political, legal and economic dependence of the Spanish State and to apply policies that in the current context are neither at the height of the real needs of the people nor of the answers that the country requires and deserves before this crisis. We have alternatives, we have proposals. We talk about it, we talk about it every day, all the time, we get them there. Let's be and talk about it. Practice the dialog, the consensus, the collective construction, not just the decree. We are willing and willing to speak and agree. I insist, we have alternatives before this crisis, and if we come to agreements, of course, we will be responsible for facilitating it at parliamentary level. Even though the rest of the legislature is still short, despite this, there is room, there is still room to take uncertain decisions before this crisis. And we, I insist, have alternatives, are willing and willing to put them on the table. What it takes is that you are willing to self-criticize and listen to them. Look, states and governments can say that they have two great areas of intervention: for a band, provision, provision of public policies, public services and public resources, and restriction, restriction with its most extreme vision, which is repression and por policy. A policy of why it is now widespread in most governments and states and of which the Government of the Generality is no exception. A policy of why they want to give priority and above all responsibility to people, individuals, in order to mask or cover up the inefficiency, inefficiency and inopportunity of governments. Miri, you, his Government, in the health and economic and social crisis of Covid-19 guarantee restrictions and repression – in this they are absolutely exemplary, captivating, even if they have claimed it here – but they absolutely fail in the provision – they absolutely fail in the provision – and they continue, from another band, to burden the entrances and private and oligarchic interests. Let's talk about it later: Railway, Hard Rock, private sanitation..., councillor, the autonomous community, together with that of Madrid, that invests more in private sanitation, to the detriment of public services and the redistribution of wealth, in favor of the social majority that today finds itself in precariousness and in an accelerated process of impoverishment. In relation to what were the interventions of the Councillor d'Interior, the Vice-President and the Councillor Budó. For what he does to the Councillor d'Interior. Look, you talked about ventilation as one of the main criteria. Are you referring to the ventilation of the high standing offices or to the ventilation of the working conditions in which most of the workers in our country have to develop their pockets and in the conditions in which our people are to take the public transport service every day? What kind of ventilation is that? Are you referring to the ventilation of high standing, high-level well-being, minority, or limited and precarious housing in which most people in our country live? What kind of ventilation is that? And when you're talking about attention to people who aren't home, do you also refer to people you leave on the street every time you make a denunciation, even without a court order? And currently increasing the repression on the anti-denomination movement, mediating the very strict application of the law bite, offensive it to many so that you have the most free field to let even more people on the street. Is that what you're talking about? What you are doing is intensifying repression before the inevitable and necessary social expression of the crisis and protest. You have the focus and the emphasis on individual responsibility for such, as before, to cover up what is the government's responsibility in its failure in public policies. Counselor, for the one who does the subject of salvation. Primary care is in an absolutely dramatic and unsustainable situation. Overexploitation of primary care staff and the carelessness of patients and patients at this level of health care intervention. Hospital resources are scarcely available. There's shortness and saturation. The working conditions of hospital staff are also precarious. And the updates on visits and treatments, what happens to all the people who don't suffer from Covid-19, but suffer from other diseases? Do we have to assume how inevitable the aggravation and the chronification? It seems that you are absolutely unacceptable. And I remember that: we are in the autonomous community in which medical staff are less paid and paradoxically the one that, together with that of Madrid, spends the most on private sanitation. This is a model that is unsustainable, absolutely unsustainable, will advise. And for what he does to the Vice-President's intervention, although it has been very concise, in order to do so, we do not want to stop quickly assesing some questions. As I said, his Government, Vice-President Aragonès, is focused on restriction and on the issue, as well as on the results, but it is a weakness in the provision, in the provision of public services and public resources, and it is a weakness in the social dialogue, participation and concertation. They rule by decree, without any means of dialogue, consent or participation. With very serious shortcomings in basic questions: guaranteed income, housing, with a housing crisis of enormous magnitudes, leaving the road completely unprotected the autonomous workers, leaving the sector of culture unprotected. Aren't you looking at them as shame, holding cinemas and theaters and accepting a celebration of six hundred people in the Holy Family? Doesn't that embarrass them, to assume it as the government? We do, honestly. To us it seems unforgivable and absolutely unacceptable. In education, where's the promised teacher? Where is the teaching needed, the educational resources needed so that the school is a place of social inclusion, of fighting against segregation, why is it a truly inclusive school? Sanitation, we haven't talked. The job insecurity, especially in women and young people, where is the government's action to fight against the continued precariousness of our working class? You say they save lives; they have said it some time. Miri, you don't save them from emptiness. What saves them is the health care staff that is their super-effort and with their sacrifices. Who saves them, it is the workers and workers every day who go out on the street to play life in precarious conditions of transportation and work. Life is saved by every individual struggling personally and collectively and solidarily for such survival. And you don't do what you have to do, create material, political, legal and economic conditions for as long as you save lives, the healthcare staff, you can do it in proper conditions and to guarantee basic rights, phone rights, social rights for everyone. While, in change, you, as you said before, are pursuing resources in private rescue, Hard Rock. I would like to stress once again that it does not seem immoral to you, in this crisis, to allocate EUR 80-90 million to the rescue of the Box and Hard Rock? They continue to renew contracts with Railroad, when this Parliament has repeatedly approved that they should not do so, that they should reverse what they have done so far. So they repeat it. And what do you do to the autonomes and the autonomes, Vice President Aragones, to you do not seem immoral, what your government has done? What thousands and thousands of autonomes in a precarious situation have to participate in a lottery for such a benefit? What's the understatement of the immorality of family games? I mean, to the situation of social and economic insecurity, do we have to add this humiliation and this outrage? Faced with all this, of course, before this situation in Catalonia, and also the fruit of its policies, the rich are each richer and the poor are every poorer, which is a shoal and transformations of the system so as to prevent future crises from finding us in the same conditions of precariousness, impoverishment and lack of public services as this has found us. To put a stop to denunciations, to ensure housing, to put up with accommodations, universal income, fair and redistributive fiscal policy, rescue of autonomous people, to reverse job insecurity, and to encourage and invest in public services. And as I said, system transformations. Sobirania about the resources of this country. Sovereignty about the strategic resources, the basic services and the common benefits of this country. Transition to a green and social economy. And while, before all this, you continue to flatten yourself before the Spanish State and before the European Union, with a policy that is not about redistribution of wealth, that is not about changing the tax model to have more resources, of sobrieties to have all our country's resources so as to invest them in public policies, but rather depending on the State and the European Union, converting the famous dialog table, which was already empty, today [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , in another thing that is no more – and I finish, President – than the reproduction of the bilateral table between Government and Generality, of which you are the only one that you are not able to achieve...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.145.0	Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.146.0	... for such, then, to approve, probably in the Congress of the Deputies, the premise of the Spanish Government, to collaborate in the governance to change absolutely nothing, neither in the national land nor social.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.147.0	Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.148.0	And that's why – I finish, President – there is an alternative, that alternatives are called, and that's why we are here, to guarantee an alternative in the land of social rights... (The Vice President withdraws the use of the microphone to the orator and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of deputy Alejandro Fernández, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.150.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, as with each plenary, to each appearance, therefore, to convey, on behalf of the People's Party also, our condolences to the families of the victims of these last days. All of them, obviously. And also words of support for those people who are first-personing the disease and also the people who help and who are fighting the pandemic in another way. Choosing between saving the economy or saving salvation is like choosing between breathing or eating. And I don't have to be a genius to see that choosing between one another is a big mistake. A total confinement is obvious that rehabilitating the contagion quickly, but it destroys the economy. Absence of any restriction would save the economy, but it destroys salvation. The ability of a good ruler is to seek balance: breathing and eating, greeting and economics. You, in the midst of the fight against the pandemic, started a speech that supposedly only prioritized salvation. And it's true that they killed him in the last few days. During the control session, some reference was made to the question. But it wasn't always like that. In fact, any discrepancy, at a given time, was dealt with in a populist and aggressive manner. Anyone who publicly expressed concern about the economic issue became immediately insensitive, cruel or who did not directly affect the death of the people, right? I insist, they have killed this speech, a little late, but well, welcome follow rectification or matisation. But he said that it was a speech that supposedly – supposedly – prioritized salvation, because then, at the time of truth, and beyond the speech, it was managed in terms of salvation that was an authentic flaw. I'm not saying, in my later appearance I've already made statements about the person I've been assigned to lead the entire pandemic strategy, Mr. Oriol Mitjà, who referred to a directly incompetent government. And something certain I imagine they had their claims, when we have constantly witnessed dismissals, resignations in key councils, which have generated this image of absolute uneventfulness. The paradigmatic example was, in its moment, the chaos in the residencies. And ultimately, to finish adopting it, it lacks absolute coordination for internal discrepancies, which generates disconcert and misinformation in the citizenry. The feeling is that they're going out of their hands, that they're not able to control it. Look, what happened in the past few hours with the disenfranchisement plan is unacceptable, and it's authentic alien shame. And I agree with what other spokespersons have said about the opposition, of very different ideologies from my own, when they said that the least was to convey an apology for the unfortunate spectacle that they have starred in the past hours. But if we say that he managed it, in terms of salvation, it was a slip, it was still worse the economics. First, with a speech, I insisted on it, profoundly wrong that it focused, stigmatized a whole sector. But then, when they tried to rectify, they did it badly and sometimes also with scandalous measures. We talked about it at the control session, 547,000 autonomies treated in an incompetent manner, sometimes humiliating, without legal certainty, justice or transparency. A sector of the ocean and of the restoration limited with much more severe than the rest of autonomous Spanish communities, without that there were different results in terms of salvation. Therefore, there is no cause-effect relationship that can be established, and that, moreover, when it has been seen that it could be opened gradually, in accounts of being done publicly, that it does not happen, a self-explanatory, to recognize that perhaps a large mass had passed – something that they recognized in private – they have kept these same conditions and had to be up to and including Mr. Canadell, president of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, who yesterday, in addition to what Mr. Oriol Mitjà had already said, acknowledged that in this assumption the Government of Madrid had managed the pandemic much better. I suppose they trigare a few hours to put the Lords Mitjà and Canadell on their endless list of Spanish botiflers. I don't know if Mr. Canadell also fits in with this model that you have dedicated yourself to pushing back and forth. Then, when they raised aid, they were late and clearly insufficient. And the hardest, in many cases, not in all, but in many cases, help them announce but then they are never covered. Or, as a matter of fact, a lot of people who still don't know how much help they've announced and that you, at the control session, in a funny way, have devoted yourself to highlighting, at the time of truth, the people didn't charge. So when I said I had no idea how it worked, I do, but I do have no idea, what I have no idea is that a lot of people you say have rejected help have not rejected them. And that's the reality and I can't contradict it because it's obvious. In short, summarizing this economic part, you have converted private enterprise – not always in a first stage – into an enemy in the battle against the Covid. When it's exactly the opposite. Only with the collaboration of all these sectors can we succeed in defeating the Covid and at the same time the economic crisis, which will be brutal. You have killed a speech, but during this month and half or two months you have done a lot of wrong to people who don't deserve it, and who don't deserve to be stigmatized and focused like the diffusers or contagious agents of the pandemic. They didn't deserve it. And, therefore, this correction must not just be worded, but must have a few facts behind it. A horizon is drawn, a very worrying panorama, which I would like to make in four final points. The first is that you continue to be installed in ideological prejudices that are hard to harm the Catalan economy. The latest, scandalous too: the Catalan cave boycott starring in the European Parliament for separatist policies in its attempt – I am talking about the cave sector – to protect itself from Chinese counterfeiting. It turns out that so much talk that if the boycotts come from Madrid or the rest of Spain, and it turns out that the only one that materialized and materialized was a boycott in the catalá cave starring people like Mr Puigdemont. They'll tell me if that's supporting the Catalan economy and such an important sector in economic and, finally, symbolic terms. Second question: In addition to not defining an economic, viable and credible strategy, give up making the necessary adaptations and modifications to the current assumption. I'm quitting. It's hard, if we're aware that we don't have a presupposition for the year 2021 and nothing indicates that this can happen, obviously, by obvious reasons. Three: preside over you, Mr. Aragones, a government in limited function in the sense of consubstantial limitations to a government in function. But what you – as I said on another occasion – still limit themselves more to a legitimate ideology but don't serve the citizenry of Catalonia. You may hold all the right of the world to think that if Mr. Torra was removed in a fair or unfair manner, and manifest it, obviously by listening to the feeling, but you have the right to manifest what they want in democratic terms. But that doesn't have to condition your day to day. You don't have to limit yourself to your own ideological prejudices, because this is against the citizens of Catalonia. And four: it is you, Mr Aragones, as President-in-Office, who must unite the Government. It's his responsibility. If you don't know or like it, go, so I'm available. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, someone's got to put an order in there. It's an absolute scandal. It's an absolute scandal. And that's their responsibility, it's you who has to put order, who has to mark the limits, who has to translate the government's guidelines. He can't live up to it when there's a discussion and say there's nothing going on here. No, no, I'll get back to you. But, in fi, dedicate's..., it's with the advice you have and they name another or they do something, I know. You'll know... but this is absolutely untenable. What's going on and these split shows. You're not doing it, and it's imperative that you react, especially before an economic crisis that is anticipated much longer than the same pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the turn of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Deputy Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.152.0	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, Vice President, Councillors, Members and all the people who are following this Plethora today. It is obvious that Catalonia begins to breathe, if we look at it from a sanitary point of view. The measures taken three weeks ago are yielding good results and now it is time to progressively initiate a flexibility of restrictions to recover economic activity. It's important to do it with great caution and progressive, because if we do, we'll throw all the work done into the rubble. Res, res, would be worse for our country, for our economy, for our society, than a rebound. We're bending the rope of this second wave and it's coming from the government's anticipation, but also – and we have to thank everyone – for everyone's co-responsibility. We are not today where we are without the support, without the effort of so many sectors, of so many families who have passed it and who are passing it very badly as a result of the measures, but who at the same time are making it possible for us to save lives every, every, every day. And this is priceless. For this reason, from here on, we would like to give immense thanks to all the restaurateurs affected, to the world of culture, to sport, to trade, to the patience and effort they are making, because without them all that would have been impossible. As we have always said, this virus we can only win, we can only overcome if we all act together. Because until we're all saved, no one will be saved. As I said, despite the sound, the government has acted. The company is jointly responsible and the results, which were the most important, have arrived. The contagion rate is already below 0.80. Our contagions are coming down, and we hope that they can stabilize over these thousand diaries of which she spoke before the councillor. And the hospital pressure, the ICUs also went down, but it's still high because, as we know, the end is the end of the indicators that are affected by the measurements. I, above all, the name of the dead. We are celebrating that we are still very much below the rest of the territories of the State. We have some of the lowest numbers of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, and that's important to remember every day too. And what happened in Catalonia, in the end, is the same thing that happened in France, Germany and many other European countries that have been affected by this inhumane virus. These days, unfortunately, we feel repeatedly how it compares Catalonia's situation with that of Madrid, and how there are people who do it in a cheerful and malicious way. There's everything open and it's better than here, they say. So, in this sense, the data are very clear: almost three hundred more dead in Madrid than in Catalonia since July for every million inhabitants, and that Catalonia has much more population than Madrid. Three hundred more deaths per million inhabitants. In Madrid they have done so well that they carry in the second wave since the month of August, and all just now – all just now – the dice start to go down. He's not going. We are not here to demagogically and less in questions like this, which is always made from the same icons, which is always made from the same ideological spaces, which is always made from the same sectors, and which are also made by certain experts. We get used to it, because they certainly defend interests that must be for them very high. It may continue to fight against the virus, and even though the measures can be relaxed, the next few days it will take us all to lay down the same or perhaps even a little more responsibility. The more responsibility we take on each of us, the more feasible it will be to avoid nine more steps forward. Because probably from the epidemiological point of view, I might have to open up less, but ruling is making decisions, and giving oxygen to all those who have been most economically affected by this second issue. It may start re-opening activities to give oxygen to our country's social fabric and product. We're falling the virus – we're falling the virus – or, as a matter of fact, we're defeating it in which it has effects on this second one. But as we continue to fight the Covid, breaking lines of contagion, reducing mobility and saving our health system because you are prepared to continue saving lives, we must begin to give air also to economic life, and do so with great caution and do so with great caution and make you very aware of the risks that this has. The government has made it very clear, all the decisions have always been made with these two ideas at the center: saving lives, first saving lives, but also saving the economy and the country. Because we only have one goal: to help the people of this country. That's what's moving us, that's what got us into politics and that's what made us independent, too. And in order to do so, the Government of the Generality must continue to work both in the containment of this virus and in the assistance they provide to reduce the impact of the measures. No one – no one, no one – likes to have to take restrictive measures. No one likes to have to park bars, restaurants, cultural spaces, sports. No one. But if it is to be done, it will, because governments must take decisions always thinking of the common good. I at the moment – at the moment – the measures are proving effective. Here in Catalonia and also in the rest of Europe, very similar measures have been taken. And, obviously, these measures must always be accompanied by help to reduce the economic impact of these restrictions. The truth is that neither can we avoid, nor can we stop saying that we can't allow ourselves to be, sometimes, the feeling that we have different governments, which some days have the feeling that government and opposition are sitting at the Executive Council. We have to leave the party to the band, we have to finish the absurd discussions, we have to finish the sound in half and in half. Let's get rid of the leaks, which make it feel like they're just about to generate pressure. And it's work and find solutions when there are problems. Let's work together and find solutions. Too picky, enough to go free, enough to look for the wear of what the company has to be. Too many interested filters to then go out to make an ofe. Too much filtration, that what they do is frustrate the measures that are being put on the table. It's time for loyalty. We cannot hold the feeling that there are people who have been lobbying from the Government, because we cannot just be waiting to defend concrete sectors instead of making members of the Government of the Generality. To be a member of the Government of the Generality, to be advisors of this country is to work for everyone, to seek consensus all the time and to think about the country globally. This isn't a game. People are working very hard – very hard – to save lives and to try to shake off some mandatory restrictions and decide together, and also decide together with health sector experts. The government must combine the interests of the citizens' group, never be the representative of one sector against another, because it is when we all act together as a team when things go well. This government is leaving its skin to help as much as possible the people of our country, the people who suffer every day as a consequence of the pandemic. And it's true that sometimes things don't go as well as we want, it's true that sometimes all of us can be wrong. But it's also a lot of good things that have been done. And we cannot stop talking about the opening of the schools, for example, or how this second wave has been controlled from the moment they take action. Because when we go to one, the results are much better. And now I have to keep working and I have to keep working especially in this economic part. And it's also true that even though we do everything that's in our abyss, we always see that it's insufficient. We have the resources we have, we'll put everything we can, we'll generate deficit, if necessary. I think the vice president has repeatedly explained this: it is time for the reversal. But despite this, the resources available are always insufficient, and that's why, too, we are independent, because it is the State that has resources that deny us and is not doing anything in this second instance; although it has resources another time – another time – gets its hands full. We, despite the limitations we have, economics, legal at times, are trying to cover the holes of a state that doesn't do the job, and that can't go on. We reported, said we did, that the State, that the Government of the State left the people of this country behind. There's a rescue plan in the state. All European countries are doing it. All European countries are doing it. Call for urgent direct help. It may reduce the impact of taxes on self-government and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the great fabric of this country. You see, do you understand why we want a close state? To help, to serve our people; not to look at another gang. We're not talking about 2021, we can't wait for the year you see. Let's talk about today and today, the situation of the Covid strengthens us even more in our independent convictions, because while we can't get this republic we want, so that this State is laying the piles at once. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.153.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the turn of Congressman Lluís Guinó, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.154.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselors, advisors, vice president, deputies, deputies... Let me first make a finding that, by no means, you have transcendence in the debate that we are having today, and more so in the management that the government is making of this absolutely extraordinary pandemic, that demands extraordinary measures for its resolution, and that, obviously, as a consequence of this exceptionality, it also generates, in its management, the possibility of making mistakes, and the virtuality of making mistakes at times is that it also allows us to know how to rectify. And when this government made a mistake, it was able to rectify, it was able to recognize that it made a mistake, and that it had consequences for the citizenry, not so much from a strictly political perspective, but for the negative consequences that it brings to the citizenry; and they have come to an end and are putting themselves to an end when necessary and appropriate. Therefore, let us say from our group that it is important to note that extraordinary situations, extraordinary measures, difficulties, probably errors, but also corrections. And, therefore, what we are also asking is that it is continuing to work, from now on, and that when this parliamentary session ends and the government officials must rectify, bring to term nine measures, fix us scenes, do it together, that it is the one that must make a coalition government, as we have the Government of the Government of Catalonia, precisely chosen, this government, in an absolutely democratic way for this Parliament. Therefore, we want to focus on working, not just working on an appearance of good will, on an excessive demand sometimes with citizenship, and on its responsibility; it is the Government that is specifically responsible for carrying out the measures in a concrete and in a more predictable way, that this is another problem that arises in extraordinary situations: to rule in an orderly manner is relatively easy, it is less merited to assume precisely that we are in an exceptional situation and that these measures must be more predictable, that they must not be taken in an uncommunicated manner, that they must be taken precisely in a transparent manner and that they must have a minimum of predictability, so that the economic sectors, if they are to be carried out in a transparent manner, are less likely to have the least possible effect. Certainly, from a strictly health-care perspective, the data is indisputable that have improved since October 23rd, and as these health-care data, epidemiology, have improved, the scenario, from a governmental point of view of managing this pandemic and taking action, must change, and that is precisely what the Government has come up with at these times, and it must be done with responsibility and, moreover, I insist, with anticipation and transparency. There is another important issue, which has been referred to, and there are some of the aspects that have been announced here at the parliamentary level that cost to make effect in the day-to-day management of what is the field of salvation in some cases. That is to say, it has already been explained by the councilwoman: at the primary care level, there continues to be pressure in the work, in the work done by the doctors and nurses of primary care. I wanted to list... I expressly asked a nurse and a doctor who told me exactly, from a point of view of primary care, the jobs they do, and it's certainly a lot of jobs. And, besides, there's another problem with primary care, and it's that they get complaints and concerns from the citizenry in a very harsh way, that they trick them directly, that they're going to see them, that 061 hasn't just worked, that they can't talk directly to the headmaster, that people are missing face visits. All these issues are problems that the Government is trying to solve in an intense way and that it is not only from a strictly economic perspective, because it is good that the Government – and this has been referred to by some Member of this House, and we do not agree – has made reprogrammings of presuppositional parties, yes, they have made reorderings of parties in the areas of the Government and, moreover, in each of the departments, yes, priority has been given to what is the most necessary expenditure in the field of salvation; this is indisputable. This is required, but it is more necessary for a responsible government to do so. And at a certain time, and in view of the situation of the pandemic, it was considered that, in addition to the PCR test, for example, we should complement the PCR, and say that it is particularly transcendent, not substitute, but complement the PCRs with the anti-aging tests. Much has been done and will continue to be done. It is practically a necessity that today, in the situation of the pandemic, in order to avoid new waves, is brought to terms massive cracks, population cracks, and with a very concrete and very specific criteria. And this is the policy that the Health Department has announced and that it will gradually carry out from the next and these very days; in fact, the antique tests are already carried out at CAPs. Before the primary care task was multifunctional, multifactorial; they do absolutely everything, and they do it with a high level of efficiency: they do the ordinary assistance, they do the PCR tests, they participate in the massive cribratges, they identify contact with contagion, they manage job losses, they pay attention to the residencies of their local environment and they develop bureaucratic search tasks that certainly do not correspond to them. And that's why the government has engaged more staff, which is a need that they don't only transmit from primary care, but also all the same citizenry transmits to primary care professionals that they need more doctors and nurses; and, therefore, it's also a way to transfer to the government of this need. And these bureaucratic tasks do not correspond to them or correspond to them, and it is good, from this perspective, that the Health Department takes into account a question, which is not just a conjunctural issue: the first one needs strategic decisions, and probably some of these that will be taken now are likely to have its consolidation and continuity further beyond the Covid-19 pandemic, because, certainly, this pandemic has been very serious, it has reached an extraordinary level of lethality and is today in a better situation, but it is a situation that is not yet up to the necessary stability to stop doing or to stop being demanding in the health field. But this must be compatible, perfectly compatible, with going beyond the new reality. And beyond resolving health and health problems, which are priorities, we must try to ensure that the service sectors, the sectors which have been restricted, which have had to be temporarily closed, which have difficulties in making payments, which have difficulties in finding out whether their negotiations will bring forward, have a scene of certainty... which makes it possible to predict, in short and in the medium term, that the situation will be rectified. They also need more help. It requires, too, society, and entrepreneurs, in general, a good management of these aids. It is obvious, and there has been reference by other Members of parliamentary groups, that aid must not be applied with a system from which it was first introduced. That's it. Help must be for those people who objectively and empirically need this money, precisely so that they don't have to be locked up. Because, in the background, when a business is closed, it is obvious that it does not only have a direct impact on the entrepreneur and the entrepreneur, but also that other places of work, as well as the possibility that economic dynamism helps the administrations to continue working and, therefore, all this expenditure, which we agree on, and which has been referred to, also, to demand from the government that it spends – that it spends, that it spends. Certainly, today it is a necessity for the government to solve the problems of citizenship economically in large part. These theses, in the Social-Democratic background, which require public investment to pull forward and which act as a tractor of private activity, are today more necessary than ever. Today is the Public Administration, not just the Government of the Generality, the Government of the State, too. And that's why I focus on the party that has representation of the government of the state, which is Podemos and the Socialist Party. They're doing a coordination effort with the Government of the Generality. An effort to coordinate and transmit and transfer resources so that all these projects, which are not very much in Catalonia and which are being delivered precisely to get out of this crisis, can be developed. And this coordination also has to come in some way linked to the transfer of these resources, and that from the Department of Economics it's done and it's possible to decide and it's possible to focus on what are the projects that really have the most sense for such a solution or for such a way as to put a scene in the middle of much more positive terms. Europe also participates in all these resources. Europe does not lay any more conditions than the good management for these resources. And so, we understand, too, that it must be from the Government of the Generality and from the proximity and from the direct incidence that these resources will have greater effectiveness. Questions that they also have to see with green energy, questions that they have to see with development projects of all that is the digital transition, for a band, has made reference before. At the teaching level there are still many municipalities that have difficulties in digital connection. We defend that it is done and invested a lot of resources in digital transition, and also in ecological transition, that it is also a transcendent aspect, that it has obviously aligned with progressive policies, that this government has to develop and has the clear will to develop. All these questions must be accompanied by good management, of course; of an efficient, quick, transparent management, which is able to assume, also, as I said earlier, certain errors that allow the rectification. And, above all, and it has insisted, and I would also like, to finish my intervention, to insist very much on it: coordination, collaboration, loyalty, good faith, and to hear that, beyond the political differences that exist in this hemisphere, the Government needs support in the measures. In fact, in the laws that have been brought here to Parliament, the majority have come forward and have had the support of parliamentary groups, because... I have certainly found that there is a need for this solidarity, these gains to work together, which sometimes seems like a general but today is more necessary than ever, is perfectly possible. Therefore, the Government, the parliamentary groups that we support the Government, what we want is for the Government to continue to govern, and do so with a single objective, which is to finally end the pandemic, to solve the scenes of salvation that carry this pandemic with resources and personnel, and, ultimately, that this country can emerge from some strength from this disgrace and from this very serious problem that the Covid-19 pandemic has been and that it continues to feel. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. One time the representatives of groups and parliamentary sub-groups have spoken, the Vice-President of the Government may speak, to answer, if he wishes. I understand that... they're telling me that the Health Counselor will intervene. And the Councillor of the Interior. By order of the government. Therefore, Counsellor Sàmper has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.156.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the one that happened here today, the one that was said here today isn't a minor, huh? It is not minor people and I would not like to start, therefore, in a line that makes it easy for my group companion, the Lord, the Deputy Guinno, to say «will to continue governing, that we will talk about it, of course, but I would like to take the line of criticism. Because..., and Mrs. Jessica Albiach gave it to me, there was probably a way here to accept misguided conduct and even to ask for forgiveness. Obviously there have been things that can do much better. You're obvious. And not so alone with the complexity of the moment we are living, that is, not so alone with the exception of a pandemic that we get used to hitting every hundred years, that is, we have to find an axulum that allows us to exculpate from probable errors or not entirely certain conducts. So, Mrs Albiach, what you said I buy practically in your totality. We've done things that could be done better. And in this pandemic scene so rare that we are living, we all have to assume that the system of trial and error, which all of us, too, have often defended as a way to apply to the fate of the epidemiological crisis, can also pass to the rulers. And that's it. And it's a reality. And, therefore, go forward, assuming that there have been mistakes. At the end of this recognition we make from the government, the firmest will ever to happen again or, if not, to reduce its frequency, its magnitude. It's our obligation. And, therefore, a compromise with all the citizenship that this is the path, that this is the path. The way to do the job in the best possible way because it needs Catalan citizenship at a time, as I have repeated several times, of a lot – of a lot – exceptionality. Politics is so different how we think of all people. And, therefore, in the people's house, in Parliament, we have to listen precisely to any and all of the criteria, the ideas that people can have. That is why it is easy to listen, therefore, to a defense held at a time like this one in the economic sector, which we share. As it is completely uncertain, acceptable, because we share it too, that it is a defense of social rights. And, therefore, this complexity and these defenses that every one of his ideological perspective does, we have to point them out, as both the Vice President and the Councillor have done as a servant such as the Councillor, also of the Presidency who accompanies us, and extremise the conclusions, I insist, because it is certainly not again producing things that have happened. A totally contrary message that has probably remained as the global summary. Clearly, we will keep pace with the measures planned for the 23rd day. I'd miss more, we'd compromise. And let no one confound that the internal debate, which is there, in the Government of the Generality will prevent it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can have a rich debate, we can have a debate at some point, because we also have a right to think things with a certain difference. And, moreover, we have the obligation to find a point of conflict between these legitimate and necessary ideological controversies. I'd miss more. And we'll find him. You have the certainty, you can hold the certainty that the Government of the Generality will work on the line to take the appropriate measures for the completion of the process, which was said to be initial, of decompression from the 23rd. And he'll do it without any lobbying intent. I'd just miss it. Nor without any intention of defending any guild or corporate right; it would only be lacking. The government works for the benefit of the citizenry. He is mistaken or uncertain, like everyone else, but for the benefit of the citizenry, the lobbyist, the trade or corporate interest. And in this line, the Government of the Generality will be preparing the measures to be taken by the 23rd. And the richness of the government will make it follow the best measures, with this balance that we are saying that it must be the one that brings the solution to this pandemic, that it is this binomial of the criteria of salvation... – I make a parentheses, and that it has been believed that there has been much uncertainty on the part of the Health Council because, as it has been said and I assume that it will be repeated, this doubling of the epidemiological raven obeys a purely sanitary criteria – and there will also be, in the band of these criteria purely health and the world of salvation, the criteria necessary to decompress, for this decompression that we are having at the social and economic level and that practically all the groups have not done so. There's no doubt about it, there's no doubt that we're working on this line. And it's been talked about – because you've been asking at the morning control session – about unpleasant issues that have happened in the last few days. Mrs Albiach also put it in the sense that she was disturbing and that this involved, so this assumption of this responsibility, and I think she said, therefore, that she needed to get here and ask for forgiveness. Listen, we don't know who leaked this, but we're all responsible, it's the evidence. It's like, we're government, and so it's something that can't happen again. And, therefore, the compromise is also that this cannot happen again, because it is not, in any case, acceptable that, at a time when we have a sensitivity like the one we have at the epidemiological level, at the economic level, at the level of so many sectors – I don't mean names to leave me uncapped – measures can be taken before the measures are agreed within the government team. Therefore, this was one of the mistakes that have happened, that cannot happen again, because Catalonia deserves to know what is the government's decisions when they are consensual and when they are taken. Therefore, and they have said, I insist, I believe that practically all the spokespersons who have come up here to the rostrum, the reiteration that things that have not been done well will be done from now on better, because citizenship deserves it. And, above all, they don't see a decoordination, they see a very intense debate. And from then on, we will have this coordination, which you have probably found lacking, to push forward, to have these measures prepared, as we committed ourselves, by the 23rd and to continue with this line of this binomial health- economy and society, for the benefit of all Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.157.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word, then, the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.158.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs. So, I'm beginning to add to the words and reflection of Counsellor Sámper respect our responsibility. And, as we have noted before, we have a very great responsibility and an intention, from the very first moment on, to explain the situation and to explain to the citizen directly where we find ourselves, which is what we know, why we find ourselves so, which scenes we can find in front, and explain the decisions, obviously, when they are pressed, when they are working. That is why, obviously, this does not help in a situation we have repeatedly said that it is a health crisis, but that it is transformed into a global, economic, social and also emotional crisis, where, before the uncertainties that may still exist, although we have greatly increased knowledge, we need to explain well to the citizenry where we find ourselves and why we need all of us to deal with this virus. That's why I would also like to start on the subject with respect to some things that have contrasted and that, for me, are not in any case counterpositions. Provision of public policies versus restriction. We have not based our action on restrictions, but I do not love it – and, in fact, we have had to sign practically all – that we have needed a tool, such as our Emergence Plan, the Process, where there are resolutions to mark measures that also affect the general population and the economic sectors. But this is what we need as a result of an epidemiological situation that is not intended for anyone, and where we have already put all the provision of public policies and all the effort, tripled ICUs, reinforcing primary care – more professional, more space, more consensus-based spaces, working with the assemblies of our country –, mobilizing all the resources that we have and that the country also has, mobilizing social entities from our country to help us, working together in the situation of control of this pandemic. Therefore, we do not lose any opportunity, no one – no one – to strengthen our public system. And, besides, we do so with that vision that we already have, that we have prioritized and that we have placed as a priority of the legislature, that we have clearly seen that they are priorities for the health system, that they are professional, primary care and, obviously, that we continue to strengthen public health policies, we have put them at the first line as a key to transformation, in a transformation agenda that we have also shared in this Parliament, and in which we also want everyone's involvement. Some things have come out that I wanted to comment on, like the fact that there is Covid, but we also have the not Covid, the other maladies, and that has been commented on by different Members and Members. We had two clear objectives when this first wave ended, and we also explained it in the dam phase. One was to regain the country's vitality at a time when the epidemiological situation, obviously, allowed it, and this brought us from the end of June to the beginning of October to be able to recover most of the economic activities of our country. Some, of course, don't. Certainly, the night octopus could not reopen, and it will not reopen in time. But it was possible to maintain all the activities, because it was in agreement with a tense epidemiological situation, where we were stabilized in a number of cases that we said was too high to respect what we wanted, but that we could manage, and strengthening all detection systems, so we could reinforce without a very clear care impact. And we had these two goals: always find this balance – no one asks to sort between one thing or another –, always look for the balance, and the balance also gives us the situation in which we find ourselves at every moment. Therefore, on the basis of this balance, we also set clear objectives, that we should not resort to total confinements, to stop the country once again, as we did in March, and we have managed to do this in this second instance, keeping the schools open, with all the essential and not practically essential trade all open, except for the malls, and also keeping the work of many people, and affecting only those activities that involve social interaction, which is the basis that we need to reduce when we want to reduce the transmission of the virus. This was a clear objective: not to resort to total confinement. And we have done so, much more, too, than other countries that have taken much more restrictive measures. And the second objective is not to abandon all the salutary activity that is not related to Covid. People continue to paint cancers, people continue to paint their chronic diseases, and we do not need to follow up. That's why the reinforcement of primary care is appropriate here; that's why we're looking for attention spaces to be able to match the two activities, Covid activity with non-Covid activity; that's why it's essential to keep the epidemiologic situation at levels that allow us to control the epidemiology and keep as much activity as possible. Because it's been said by different Members here, and we have to resort absolutely to everything, and it's all complementary. And another point. Between all of you work together. I say that among all, all..., among all collaborate. I agree, and I thank the many different parliamentary groups, such as the ones here. And when we talk about resource mobilization, I say, where government is and where there is a lot of capacity, I think it's the only country, like the Spanish government, that hasn't deployed direct help to people and hasn't deployed direct help to economic activities affected by restrictions that they recognize it to be – it's the only, the only state, it's the only government. This collaboration also has to go here, because the Government of Catalonia, the Government of the Government of Catalonia has deployed help. We can make mistakes, we can criticize and be very self-critical in many things, and we can not get to everything that would please us..., and from the point of view of Salut, obviously seeking this balance, we obviously take into account how it affects, how measures affect all people. And I'm not talking about the Ministry of Health, in this case, I'm talking about the government globally. What help has there been directly to people? What help has been given directly to economic activities? These autonomes that we are trying to raise have found a share of autonomes pushed. Do not suspend mortgages, do not suspend sub-administrations of stalled premises. And that's what they have from other places, not just from the Government of the Government of Catalonia, that we will do everything, and as we have done, and mobilize all resources, in health and in the rest of the policies. And I hope not everyone has to be in safety, because that means we're looking for a good balance. Explain the situation. On 23rd we started a re-opening of activities, which we committed ourselves to working with the sectors most affected by these measures, but we have to explain to the citizenry in general. Here we are, with all the compromise, all the responsibility of the Government of Catalonia, to do everything it takes to keep this way of descent that brings us safe, after having doubled the crow, after having stopped this second wave, after having a much narrower second wave than that of more than three months that Madrid has held, which has also come out here... How many people have there been under a crow of a second wave of three months? How many people are there? How many people are there positive, how many people are there at the hospital, how many people are there who have lost their lives, under an onada, a three-month onada? We had to stop it up and obviously make it smaller. How few people are affected the more vitality of the country we can maintain. I have commented before that the country's effort is essential, and that is why I say: "We have not been based on restrictions. We have always relied on being able to explain to people that we do not pass on any responsibility, but that we are all, that we are all; we are all here, to give them tools to be able to make decisions about their life and how they can contribute to the control of the epidemic. This is our maximum. Let's leave it to ourselves; we will not stop doing it, with this solidarity that the country has shown, because we need to be this team of 7 million people. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.159.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, according to what has been decided for the Board of Spokesmen, the first word has the deputy Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, for a return of five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.160.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We have seen, Mr Aragonès, that you have preferred to give up intervention in this reply. That's weird! - That's weird! You do not want to appear as the mediator between the two wings of the government, which seem to be fought, even if here they stage a kind of reconciliation or reunion, according to what Mr Sàmper and Mrs Vergés have said. Neither did you say, nor did you choose to appear to respond to allusions, nor did Mrs Vergés make any reference to the corruption scandal they had, how she sat down with Mr Vendrell for lunch for three hours. And frankly, in a pandemic, it offends, this; it offends this omertà, this way of saying nothing, this attempt to give no explanations. Let us hope that in the Plenary that Citizens have called to speak of the use of public resources that some are squeezed into their hands to give to their friends..., to see if in that Plenary you do give explanations, because it is seen that, in the pandemic, by the contracts that you make during the pandemic, you have preferred not to speak. And I'm not surprised, because the self-employed..., seeing how Mr. Vendrell with his ghost companies gets contracts from the Administration and they're that they can't open their premises, that they can't have business, it's very hard – it's very hard. Look, one of the things Mr. Sabrià said..., he said that Madrid was talked about joyfully and from the bad intention and always comes from the same seats and from the same ideological space. I suppose Mr Sabrià was referring to Mrs Budó, who said that with independence she would have died less, or to former Councilwoman Ponsati who said « from Madrid to heaven in the most tragic moments of the pandemic, something to which Mr Puigdemont, from his escape, retuited. And they also talk about Madrid, Mr. Sabrià, their own government health experts, their own experts, who say that here it is becoming fatal and that in Madrid it is doing well and that they wish they could work in Madrid. Look, the leaks that have occurred, the case of the subsidies for the self-employed, the aids for self-employed that were given from the councillor of Mr. Chakir..., that it has been a disaster, that it has fallen the web, that like Mr. Guinó himself, of Junts per Catalunya, has put the pull from this very atril to the councillor of Mr. Chakir, saying: "Thus things are not done, that really are not done so; but that, the leaks... You have been giving us today an image, this plenary, harmful - harmful. On the one hand, for the fights of the leaks, on the other hand, for the real mismanagement; on the other hand, for the uncertainty that all people who are depending on whether or not they open their business, that this government, which acts a bit like Pancho Villa's army..., depend on what you say. The truth is, they're putting their hair on. To Mr. Guinó's criticism of Mr. Homrani's system of discontrol, Mr. Sàmper added, although he held his hand so that this would not happen again within his government. For all Catalans, we ask you..., surely all Catalans agree that please do not continue to give you this bad image. Finally, Mrs Vergés referred to the lack of aid from the Spanish Government. Look, Mrs Vergés, first, I have asked you here, Mr Aragonès – who later did not want to appear – what contacts do you have with the Government of Spain? How are they defending the Catalan self-employed and families in order to receive such aid? And you haven't answered. You come here to complain that you don't give them anything, but you don't tell us what you do to get something. I'll tell you what we do. Instead of talking in the budgets to eradicate the Spanish from teaching, which are the conditions that your group puts in place to agree on aid budgets for the people..., for the Catalans, we have agreed 1,500_million..., or we have introduced a request for 1,500_million aid for all the autonomous Catalans, because that does help the Catalans, in addition to all the measures that we negotiate with the Government, which are not the things that you, from your separatist ideology and your constant confrontation with the State, are the ones that put on the table. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.161.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has a new turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.162.0	President... some restraints, which must be breus. One, to thank. When the government says we're wrong, so we can say there's courage to say it. But, if I may, and without controversy, there are errors and errors. I was going to explain myself. If we are suddenly wrong to take a measure of a perimeter limitation or a time frame, well, it may be a mistake. But I believe that what has scandalized public opinion and the chamber most today is the decision of some members of the government of a certain party to say that they do not sit with members of the government of the other party so that they do not fall. That's not a mistake; I'm sorry, it's a sin. And so we were very pleased to hear from the vice president's voice: "No, this was an incident that will not be repeated and this very late we will solve, because I think I should call those who would attend that meeting and, under my presidency, we will fix it. That's what we liked. Second consideration. The Councilwoman of Salvation said with great emphasis: "It is that she has not refused any help from the Government of Spain. Well, I'll refresh her memory, because, like she said, she's not from the Ministry of Health, no. Miri, 329,675 workers have rejected any help in the form of ERTOs or atur subsidies. There have been 108,648 companies that have rejected up to EUR 14,949 million in ICO credits, which were then, moreover, extended over time. There have been 285,232 autonomies who have rejected direct aid from the Government of Spain. Yeah, a few. You would be right if you said: "You should be more. And it's what I've always said... since the first day I said it's late and it's bad or it's hotter bingo, 'cause I'm sure. What happens is that we put things on their right terms. There have also been these 46_millions of the Extraordinary Social Fund, of which 3, if I don't recall badly, to the groceries, directly from the Government of Spain. I would like to finish as I finished the second intervention of the Vice President's first appearance, marking us deures. But, if I may, not only for the government, they are due for all folds. The first – and the counselor has been clear in this sense and we encourage her to follow – the primary. We are very much for, very much respect, the delay that we are having, which, among other things, is increasing the waiting lists of diagnostic tests and waiting lists of people who do not have Covid, but they do have pre-existing pathologies or very serious problems, such as cancer and others that have been mentioned. Third question, track and follow-up. Now, probably with this, we'd say, community runaway, it's not the best time, but we need to be prepared because as I'm sure we'll keep reducing the crow the time will come if we're on condition that we just contain the pandemic expansion if we have good tracking and follow-up mechanisms. Four, health professionals. Before I quoted Jessica Albiach as a case, the statement of a serving head. We must make an effort in this direction because with applause and speeches there is not enough; there is a subject of working conditions, there is a subject of technical and professional support, and of appreciation of work, which surely we still have margin of improvement. Five, the sectors affected have to be economically supported. And it's true, and we have to be able to tell the eyes: there are activities that they won't be able to resume in a certain time. Therefore, this must be done. Then, we still don't understand why the government hasn't taken any initiative to establish agreements on economic recovery or the same health pact. It is true that we are all with this account back – well, the government seems to be more than we are – but there is this interference, we would say, with proper elections. But it should be done. And lastly, maximum transparency. It's not going to address people to the generality's websites. There is no point in saying: "That's already said. We believe that there are still serious doubts as to who was the presuppositional reprogramming and who was the application of extraordinary resources from the State. And, therefore, we would like the government to, in this sense, mark the step and avoid mentioning it on further occasions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.163.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.164.0	Thank you, President. Very short. The first thing I want to do, of course, is to appreciate the words of the Sámper advisor for the whole and the contents. Calien apologizes to the country for managing it... or for not managing the government's political and communicative management of the past weeks. It was necessary. You did it. And I, therefore, agraeixo there. I also wanted to say..., this morning we have listened to repeat a few times on behalf of both the Lord Sabrià and the Lord Aragonès: "We are a government, we cannot think only in a sector. That's what you said a few times in the morning. I wonder if they were referring to Mrs. Ponsa, if they were referring to Mrs. Budó, if they were referring to Mr. Tremosa. I don't know. What I do know is that it would certainly be good for you to comment on these, to say so, so they're done privately and not here, implicitly, but in reality everyone knows what they're talking about, because that only generates more tension. To move forward. With the country? With the country we have a lot of problems and a lot of challenges. And what we're simply asking the government is that I come out of the raccoon. Right now, you're in the middle of something. I don't think that's good for the country. And, therefore, we ask it as a force that is in opposition, but I am convinced that the rest of the political and social forces also expect you to trust them. It has been said before – I believe that Mr Guinó has said this – the data strictly sanitary are improving. That's right. But we have a lot of management problems with the social crisis and the economic crisis. So far, beyond the health crisis, we see how the figures have been reduced, and that, therefore, I believe that what we have to do is to appreciate all the enormous effort that citizenry is making, in terms of managing we go to build; that is, we do not go better. Almenys till today. I hope that tomorrow will begin to reverse this situation. What I would ask is that we continue to be able to conjure up all of us, all of us here, regardless of the party we represent, regardless of the ideological positions we all represent. The citizenry hopes that we will continue to be able to agree on what is basic, what is a minimum, and we must give certainties and we must offer solutions. And, therefore, I think it would be good for us all to continue to be able to exercise responsibility and also to be humiliated. I think. Aren't we all here to agree that we need to transform and shield the health system? I know you do. I don't want to strengthen the city, how was Mr. Iceta now? I'm sure it is; if you agree, too. Don't we think we need to put all the measures in the abst so that we don't repeat what happened to the residences again? I'm sure we agree, here, everyone. Why don't we? Why don't we get out of each of our raccoons? Why don't we? Do we not think that we must fight against school segregation, that in these past months of confinement and that now with the pandemic it is still getting worse, when, besides, there are families that are having many social and economic problems, and that impact on the mental health of parents and mothers, and that also ends up affecting children? Why don't we? If, in this, beyond all our differences, we can agree. Do we not agree that the planet must be viable, that we must preserve it, for ourselves and for those who will come, and that we need an ecological transition that must be made as an ally to generate decent and quality occupation, and we must explain that it is not a threat to the occupation of the country? Can't you be the bosses of doing this? It's embarrassing to me that we can't be so close to doing this. I'm done. I am sure, as I say, beyond all our differences, that we have ahead of us problems in which we can share solutions. Let's shake hands with the government, with the rest of the opposition, with the social forces. Among all of us, we have to conjure ourselves – among all of us, we have to conjure ourselves. And, above all, we also think: right now there is no definite deficit objective, we don't have a expense relief; we have Covid funds, we have some assumptions to come up with, money that has already arrived. We spend so that no economic sector in the country falls. We don't just say it. A representative of a force that can be in our ideological antipodes in many senses, such as that represented by Mr. Guinó, such as Mr. Guinó, exactly, from Junts per Catalunya, said: "Spent, spent, spent. That's what we're asking. That's what we're asking, expansionary policies so that there's no economic sector falling, because, if they're looking for autonomies, we're all falling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.166.0	Thank you, President. Well, Counselor Sàmper, you said that in the government there is an intense and diverse debate. We don't doubt it. But what we do not doubt and repeat is that it is obvious that there is discoordination, contradiction and discomposition. This is evidence. And for three basic reasons: one, for the lack of political strategy of the government groups – it seems obvious to me –; the other, for the lack of sufficient provision and the need for services and public resources before the crisis, and, then, for electoral and electoral triflings that you are putting in front of the government's need for cohesion to address the response to this health, economic and social crisis. And speaking of inconsistencies and referring again to the issue of denunciations. Miri, today at the Congress of Deputies there will be debate and vote on a CUP motion on the right to housing, so as to regulate the loguers, so as to prevent denunciations. We'll see that they vote together for Catalonia and Esquerra. Maybe we'll have some surprise that we could keep talking about inconsistencies and inconsistencies. We'll be on the case. Well, Constable Vergés, you've been talking about restrictions that are necessary. Obviously. We agree. That's what I'm saying, and we're responsable. There are restrictions on social interaction that are inevitable and essential for preventing and reducing transmission. Obviously. That's not what we're talking about. What we're talking about is that these policies and the combination of public and health policies require planning, anticipation and coherence. And that, I'm sorry to say, your government has major shortcomings and more than remarkable insolvencies. Miri, you spoke in your initial intervention of solidarity without rights. We're totally on board. And that means resources and that means equality of all citizens before the health resources of public resources. So, I'm listening, I'm putting private sanitation, I'm putting all private health resources at the service of public policies, I'm taking care of these private resources at the service of public health, and we might have a lot more resources than we currently have at the public sector, and they're absolutely saturated. And I would remind you, Counselor: the assumption of sanitation that you have approved for 2020 together with the commons is lower than in 2010, and that is a question that you do not assume and that you should assume. And this has consequences: saturated primary care and waiting lists, to put only two particularly dramatic examples of this situation. Therefore, resources, responsibility, priority, planning, anticipation and coherence. And lastly – I end because my time is running out –, dialog, transparency, dialog, consensus and concertation, unlike what you are doing, that you are pulling for the right with a government acting at once from the decomposition and at once with decrees like lifeguards. I insist, we have proposals to put on the table; you do not want to listen to them, but if you want to listen to them, we can talk about it and we can share it. Otherwise, it will have to be the elections, it will have to be the ballots on the 14th of February that make the citizenry decide whether to continue with this current disproposal, with the current policies and with the parties of the present Government that have brought us to this attic and this path without exit, from the point of view of the social and economic response to the crisis, and from the point of view of the process of sovereignty and self-determination that allows us to effectively dispose of a republic with which we have all political and economic and social instruments in order to deal with this and other crises, from the point of view of the guarantee of social rights, politics, civilians and economics throughout the world..., it will be the time for us to decide whether this and other resources continue to be guaranteed by means of this alternative, or otherwise. And we've said this before, this requires, among other things, a shoal of shoal, halting denunciations, guaranteeing housing for everyone, halting commuting, universal income, a fair and redistributive fiscal policy, rescuing self-employed workers and reversing job insecurity in a context and in a _marc of rescuing and empowering public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia... No? [[Pause.]] So on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.168.0	Thank you, President. Very short. I want to start again with the data and with the merit that you have dropped from 1.047 to 390 or have a Rt around 0.80, because taking the first steps was very difficult, because the perimeter locks, because the state of alarm, so that you can't leave the house at night were decisions that were not easy people and that you never have the certainty that they would go well. And I think it is important to recognize that these difficult measures are producing results, certainly at the level of the best of the forecasts we had at that time. And now what we have in front of us is to make her right again. And what we have to do with all the available technical criteria, looking for the perfect balance between health and an economy, which is very strong, and above all to avoid that there can be another rebound, because this would be the worst news for life, but also for the economy. And, therefore, finding this balance is the most important today. Three more points. To Ciutadans ask him..., and I know it's a lot to ask and I know he won't complete it, but to ask him that enough demagogic a time: the second one in Madrid starts in August– in August–, and they start to drop the dice now. And if you tell me if you'd put your hand to the fire that this crow is falling from the truth and that the dice are indeed, I wouldn't put it there for cremation. So we're talking about vacuums. And I'd just ask him – I'd just ask him – not cheat and leave the demagogue. And I don't think he's gonna do it, but they're gonna ask for it anyway. To the Socialist Party. It's hard, huh? , be here and listen to you talk about helping the sector, because you have a point of cynic that I think we don't deserve: that you have the pleasure of coming here and talking about the autonomies, the PSOE, that pushes them the quota, so, fast, tastes hard, and it has to be worth it. Because we really believe that what the state has done with the autonomies is to leave them abandoned when what it does is to push their quotas. And what did we do here? So try to put a bullet – a bullet –, which is the ability we had, to a subject that was not our responsibility. And I'm sure it didn't go as well as we wanted, sure, and I'm sure we've apologized and I'm sure we can do it again. Now, the responsibility is who it is, and what it looked at from another band is who it is, and it's the PSOE and the Government of the State, which it shares with the commons. And, for that matter, there's enough. Rescue plan and less lessons. And the common ones – very short, huh? – I know it's hard, too, that I'm talking about anticipation, because, if one thing we've had, I think it's anticipation, and at a very complicated time, and that's why I wanted to start my intervention talking about the results of that anticipation, the result of these first steps that have allowed us to lower our figures to the level of what they are now. But what we would need today is not anticipation, that we have dyed it and that we would try to get it back, that we need resources, but resources it does not like people to talk to it – resources it does not like people to talk to it. Why? Because it was very easy to say when it wasn't his responsibility and now it is. Yes, yes; I can signify with the saying, but it's his responsibility. And you can go looking side by side, which is what you've always done, but you're now part of the state government and you're going to assume your responsibility. And I practically left it here. But we can't lose sight of what the worst evil – the worst evil – we could do, not to salvation, but also to the economy, it's another twist, and therefore a new phase of closure, of new restrictions, and therefore, put a lot of intelligence, put it all to the expert, the courage that requires the places we all fold, also the prudence, and find this balance so that the decisions that we take follow the better, and do it – and I've been pleased to feel it from all the places that we pray – with the wisdom, and find this balance so that we can make the decisions that we take with the best, and do it – and I've been pleased to hear it from all the pleas – with the wisdom, and with the wisdom, and with the ability to find this balance, so that the decisions that we take with the best, and to do it – and I've been pleased to hear it from all the pleas – with the wisdom, with the words, with the words, with the words, with the words, with the words, with the words. Do it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of the deputy Lluís Guinó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.170.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Carrizosa, like you've asked me a direct question, I'll answer it quickly. I keep thinking, and as much as you say, it is a political virtue to make self-criticism, to take on mistakes and to know how to rectify; this continues today, it was from the times of the classics, a political virtue that we would never fail to defend. Therefore, from this perspective, we find, even from this point of view, positive. Another issue that you have to see with..., that I have been told by the people who follow this intervention here in Parliament today that I have certainly forgotten about an aspect of the pandemic that will once become more obvious and more transcending with the pace of the day and the pace of the month, which you have to see with mental health and problems – which has already been referred to in the intervention – of the psychological and psychiatric effects of the people – has been discussed with the minors – who have suffered or suffered from the confinement or who have been vulnerable from this point of view. It is true that this is also a priority of the Government: in the later Committee on Health, it has, in a way, spelled out a whole project that is very comprehensive and very cross-cutting on the part of the Government in questions that they have to do with mental health and even addictions. Therefore, certainly, mental salvation will be a priority, and I have to be necessarily on the part of the Government. I did not mention it, either, in my intervention, but I would like to make a point of a question that has been discussed very much and is important and transcendent: the cooperation of the pharmaceutical companies, for example, with the realization of the tests of antiques. This is a collaboration that needs coordination, it needs a good understanding between the Government or the Health Department and the pharmaceutical sector, and it seems to us that it is a good option at the time when the pandemic is precisely found, that we are at a time when we need to visualize, we need to detect the positives, and, in fact, the old texts, unlike the PCR, precisely the problem they have – that they are highly reliable –... but they have a problem precisely with the people who are asymptomatic. Therefore, it is necessary that these massive cracks are done with the collaboration not only of the government, but also that everything can be given and it is a good thing that they are done with the pharmaceutical sector. And at the end of it, we must never forget that we are doing precisely to resolve the issues that ordinary and ordinary management do not solve, and that are all those sectors that are particularly vulnerable in society, those sectors that are precisely more directly affected, from an economic point of view, from a health point of view, the difficulties and problems of this pandemic. And, therefore, what we are asking the Government is also that, in planning policies and in planning the distribution of resources, it takes very much into account all those areas that are helping, supporting, the most vulnerable sectors; they urgently need the help and support of the Government. And a later question, which has to do with European projects; there has been a reference and the Member Iceta has also had to do with it: the European projects and the resources which the Government of the State of Europe has put in to bring forward these projects are not a source of cohesion; it means that they are not a source of precisely managing the autonomous communities. And what we are asking and what the government is sure to ask is to be able to participate actively in five projects that must be specifically allocated to these resources of the European funds, which are Covid funds, strictly. And, therefore, they do not take into account criteria that concern neither the people nor the territorial redistribution nor the question of how the foundations of cohesion are articulated at European level. These funds are directly linked to economic resources to the Government of the State in order to launch projects. What the Government is asking and what we are asking the parliamentary groups that we support the Government precisely is that we can decide in a coordinated way, because we know much better about the projects and we have better proximity to these projects, from Catalonia, at the time of managing these European resources. And in this I think that Deputy Iceta can perfectly help us to make the President of the State hear that it's a good option that we're setting up. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. This debate is over, we suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you. At the Government Bank, the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History and Councillors of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Education, Territories and Sustainability and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.172.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Discussion on the validation of Decree Law 36/2020 of 3 November on urgent measures in the field of tax on stays in tourist establishments and tax on the income of physical persons]] [[203-00063/12]] And we do so with the fourth point of the order of the day, which corresponds to the debate on the validation of Decree Law 36/2020 of 3 November of urgent measures in the field of the tax on stays in tourist establishments and the tax on the income of physical persons. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government will intervene in the first place to explain the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. Therefore, the words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.173.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the Government has adopted in the last few months a whole set of decrees to take swift action in response to the needs caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, which is precisely the fight against this pandemic, which is focused on it every day and every hour, as the Government's main priority, not only for the challenge from the health point of view, but also from the social and economic consequences, which are enormous. For this reason, it has been our obligation to seek solutions with the utmost celerity, doing everything in our hands to give response to the multitude of emergencies that we have to deal with in this sense. At this week's plenary session, the Government confirmed three decrees of the Law – 37, 39 and 36 – one, in relation to the guarantee of the right to housing; one, with measures to deal with social and economic problems; and this decree, 36/2020, with urgent measures in the field of tax on stays in tourist establishments and tax on the income of physical persons. The health crisis we are facing is from the economic point of view... when we look at the indicators in comparative terms, we have to go back, at European level, to the Second World War to find indicators of the fall of activity and of the sacseig so deep. The pandemic has, of course, completely changed our daily lives, that of all, that of all. We see solvent companies as threats; workers and workers, unexpectedly, have had to cling to an ERTO, or families that are cheating to get to the end of the month, so now they are patenting with many difficulties, and with collections that are already vulnerable, so they have seen their difficulties more difficult. There are many workers and workers, many entrepreneurs, who, from one day to the next, have seen their entrances diminish, even disappear, in particularly affected economic sectors, like all those related to the mobility of people, who need certainties that today, from the point of view of health, no one who speaks with sincerity is willing to give them in an absolute way. We all wish we weren't going to have to paint the consequences of a virus with an extraordinary contagious capacity. And we all wish we could go back to the situation we were in before March, get normal. And, certainly, that we can, therefore, start a new stage of normality is the news that we all seek. But until we have a vaccine, that won't be possible. Meanwhile, you have to be realistic; the situation is very complex, right. And from the government we have to do and do everything we can to help the most affected sectors, to add to our efforts, to overlap with the current situation and overcome the adversities and obstacles. We are aware that government decisions, therefore, are often not good for concrete sectors, which are affected, with limitations of activity that harm their input. But they are measures that, from the point of view of health, are totally necessary to stop the Covid-19 and that today we see how they are bringing positive results. It is only necessary to see the weighted mortality data of the second wave. When we look at it in data and with comparable fonts, with equivalent criteria, we know that, despite the fact that there are many personal stories, many people who have left us, the decline in mortality rates in Catalonia, compared to other territories, is clear. Therefore, the struggle against the Covid-19 from the health point of view is coming to an end. But we can also end the struggle against the social and economic consequences caused by the pandemic, with the resources we have, which are limited, but also demanding all the resources that the State must provide. Therefore, it is essential that the Government of the State also deploy, like other European states, measures of shock, rescue plans, not only at the generic level, as it has done, with ERTOs that have encountered management problems or a vital minimum income that has not been satisfactorily deployed, but also direct aid to sectors that have not completed all their activities but have significantly decreased it. If we were willing to use the tools of a state, we would have done it. And if we could get all the taxes back, we would have done it, too. Therefore, it is essential that, at the expense of health care measures, which are not only taking Catalonia, which take other territories, the State decrees a moratorium on taxes and social contributions, resolve the arrears in the payment of ERTOs, because it is the security network for many workers and workers; that measures such as the increase of autonomous quotas, in the accumulated collection, are not produced, and that they articulate a rescue plan with direct help to the sectors most affected by the crisis, as we have done in the field of our possibilities. We all make decisions that we don't like, and we already said that if... even if we had to make unpopular decisions, we would take them, and we wouldn't trembling our pulse to defend salvation and to defend the health victory before Covid-19. We all know what we're up against. And what this government won't do is neither have any good words, nor store information for the citizenry, nor be self-contained. We know that there are many aspects that we need to be able to get there. We know, too, that if there is an increase in infection and pressure on the health care system, it is unsustainable – or it can be – to act and forcefully. But today, thanks to the effort of the citizenry, there are some recent data from the evolution of the pandemic that, in the gravity, focus on a positive trend; that the measures taken have caused the transmission rate to decrease rapidly below 1; also, in a very drastic way, the risk of resurgence; that we begin to see a decrease in hospital admissions, and so also, where the number of infected persons has been reduced to a third of what we had only a few weeks ago. Therefore, it will be necessary to follow a lot of lovers and not to make mistakes that we made during the de-escalation, with a rapid de-escalation; the flexibility will have to be done progressively, with great caution, and always keeping a follow-up of the data that we see, in case it is necessary, therefore, to make a halt or – hopefully not – to take a step back. And let me thank the work of everyone who is making this positive health trend possible. In the first place, the health and care staff; also the assembly of the citizenry, which we have understood, all folded, mostly, that we will only get out of it if we protect ourselves and others; that we can greatly aggravate the civic attitude and responsible for Catalans and Catalans. And we know that this effort has to be continued and that we can't relax if we don't want to experience a new wave of infection. And the government is also not relaxed at the time of taking the measures it has at its bottom to help the most affected collectivities, the economic sectors. This law we present today, 36/2020, includes two measures in the tax field. The first is the adjournment to the 1st generation of the year coming from the increase of the rates of the state tax in touristic establishments and the application of the charge to the city of Barcelona, and the second measure is in relation to the IRPF, with effects of 1st generation of 2020, in the full quota of the Generalitat, when there is an obligation to present the declaration of IRPF, establishing a deduction for reason of having more than one payer of labor returns. I will go into the detail of these measures, which are... they have a very detailed technical aspect, but we believe that it is important to explain it in order to promote parliamentary debate and achieve validation. In relation to the tax on stays in tourist establishments, which, therefore, in a communicative or popular way has been known as the "Tourist Tax, we must state that the Decree Law of 9 June, 23/2020, has already extended until the 1st generation of 2021 the entry into force of the increase of the rates of the tax and of the application of the tax to the city of Barcelona. Today, the situation makes it difficult to predict that the 1st generation of 2021 tourist establishments would normally function, and therefore we believe it necessary to postpone once more the entry into force of the tariffs and the travel which was approved, also, in the Law of Measures of the Presumptions of 2020, which were foreseen by a situation of normality in the tourist activity. The pandemic and the restrictions placed on the market have clearly affected international mobility. The World Tourism Organization, in the first half of 2020, sifrave in a fall of 65_per_cent the arrivals of international tourism on a global scale. The tourist indicators in Catalonia reflect this exceptional situation, with very long figures of what would, therefore, be customary in a current year. In the accumulated period of gener-agost, the names of foreign tourists and their expenditure recorded data from 76.5_per_cent and 78.9_per_cent annually. The hotel stays, during the period of generation in September, decreased by 75,4_per_cent per year, with a very strong, even stronger fall, in the foreign tourist stays: an 83,6_per_cent less than the year passed; in change, therefore, the tourist stays of the rest of the Spanish State had a smaller fall, in this case, but much pronounced equally – and extremely harsh and unacceptable; no, we cannot conform – from 66,7_per_cent, and, in the case of Catalan tourists, the fall was 41_per_cent, which, compared to the fall of foreign tourists, is smaller, but obviously they are extremely worrying. So, they're in charge of establishing what it is, aren't they? , postponing what is the inn out of this increase of the tourist fee rate and also of the planned rent. We will not be the 1st generation in a tourist situation, in our home, which, therefore, I allow the inn in a march of this measure. The second measure we propose is an important measure in the scope of the IRPF. Same as the old one. We create a tax deduction in the share of the IRPF that corresponds to the Generalitat de Catalunya. And this deduction applies when the person who has to file the income statement has to file the tax because of having two or more payers. The reality makes – of the economic situation – that until August of enguany were recorded in Catalonia 893,931 high initials of ERTOs, therefore, dispatches of temporary regulation of occupation, for Covid-19. According to the Labour Force Survey, the working population in Catalonia in 2019 was of the middle of 2,918,000 people. And therefore ERTO have come to affect a 31_percent of the employees of Catalonia. When you all know..., you know that, up to fourteen_thousand euros, persons who declare a taxable basis of up to fourteen_thousand euros in the income tax of physical persons are not obliged to submit the declaration in any case; up to 22,000, therefore, from fourteen_thousand to 22,000, they are not obliged to submit the declaration if they have a payer's fee, if they have been working for one company alone, or have a single input source. When a worker, therefore, has entered ERTO, he becomes two payers. In this case, the public occupation service considers SEPE as a payer, as if it were another company. Therefore, they are..., become, for a cause not attributable to them – having been in ERTO –, obliged to present the declaration. And, therefore, there may be a difference between the retentions practiced and ultimately the one to be paid in the income statement. It is possible to give the case, therefore, that precisely because of this circumstance, people who were not yet obliged to submit the IRPF's statement and were taxed in agreement with the retentions are obliged to hold more than one payer, and therefore they also know what the regulation and the rate of the Generality is. The fact that the autonomous communities do not have the tools to transfer the exercise of our regulatory capacity in the IRPF, therefore, the tariff we establish and decide from this Parliament, from the IRPF to Catalonia..., we do not have the capacity for law to transfer it to the retentions. Therefore, this clearly affects what is the income statement. These deductions are marked by state law, and therefore it is possible to produce tax discrimination against taxpayers who at the same level of remuneration become in ERTO..., who have been in ERTO can be found with the obligation to declare and have to pay more than not who has not been in ERTO, who has been in ERTO, with the deductions too much. Beyond situations of temporary occupation or suspension, this situation of inequity is given in all those assumptions in which the contributor, for the sake of having two payers, becomes obliged to declare. These assumptions are usually related to job insecurity: various temporary contracts, two payers; unemployment situations, two payers; part-time work, if more than one, two payers. In all these cases, there could be tax discrimination, which, moreover, is made worse by the situation of the Covid-19, which is becoming much larger. For this reason we believe it is necessary to correct this situation of inequity as soon as possible. Therefore, we approve the law decree for urgency and need, therefore, to rule out what many contributors will find as a consequence of the ERTO and other situations of hard work and precariousness caused by Covid-19. I, they understand that the 2020 exercise of the IRPF is worth – therefore, it is calculated – the whole cumulated to 31..., entered until 31 December of this year, so we have to approve before the end of the year the regulations that allow this deduction and that stop penalizing in the IRPF of the year come the people who have had to bind to an ERTO. This measure is not conjunctural, we will keep it; it is a measure that if Parliament validates this decree it will already be incorporated into our fiscal regulations, and we believe that it is social justice to approve it, and that we encourage the Government of the State to also take measures in the same sense. In short, and finally, let's push for a decree approving fiscal measures to promote what is one of the most damaging economic sectors for the pandemic, such as the tourism sector, and to favour workers and workers with precarious contracts, workers and workers in a situation of more vulnerability. We know that all the help is little, because we want to reverse the complex situation in which we find ourselves, but the Government of the Generality is and will be, and although we do not have all the capacity and all the resources of a state, the Government of Catalonia will assume all the responsibilities that lie within our grasp, all of us. To get us out - now, and with this end, that the public sector is strengthened, it has taken the lead and invested in benefiting and advancing the community, and that means in health and care services, in public health, in social policies to care for all the people who are still painting more for the crisis caused by the Covid-19; a strong public investment to build a more just and equitable society, more equal, and also invest in transition towards a more sustainable, more inclusive and resilient economic model. In the 2018 financial crisis, austerity policies were generally chosen and banks were rescued; now what it is to act in the direction of the counter, not to make the same mistakes, not to make the same decisions, and, therefore, to expand policies; therefore, to rescue people. Modestly, this decree will help to advance in this sense. Many thanks for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.174.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make a statement, the parliamentary groups and sub-groups now have the word. And let's start with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. It has the word deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.175.0	Mr. Vice President, acting as President, in front of a government where all of us are stranded, brings us today a new decree to the law. Its persistence in governing at the heart of the pito, by means of this instrument, which, as I recall, has to be used only in emergency situations, is becoming a vice. I'm sorry, but someone had to say it. It is certain that the crisis that we are patenting makes it difficult to manage any organization. These situations derived from extreme and exogenous emergencies have multiple derivatives and aspects that are constantly feedback. And that's what you need to recognize. The organisations that best manage these challenges are those that know how to adapt and take the best of each of their members, those that promote collaborative and cooperative solutions. I would say that they are the ones who choose to take decisions in the network and who seek to obtain motivating and overcoming objectives. They are organizations marked by aggressive and positive leaders, who weave alliances. They are, in short, those organizations that rely on a clear leadership, but not any leadership; they must be a resilient leadership. I suppose you know what it means, I don't have any doubts, but I'm going to remind you of all these things, which you can certainly find at any internet site. He must be empathetic, that is, he must know how to put himself in the place of his fellow citizens, and he must also know how to be firm and rational in order to take the measures that ensure the well-being of all of them. It has to be clear what its mission is: to stabilize society during the crisis and to look for new opportunities. He must be able to take decisive action in the short term. He has to lead the speech, and that means he has to take the initiative in a transparent sense of respect for the current reality, but he knows how to draw a convincing future scenario, which inspires and motivates our fellow citizens to persevere to get out as soon as possible better from this hole where we have fallen. It has to have a vision of the future, anticipating which will be the main axes of economic growth and encouraging innovative projects with clearer added value for the whole community. A resilient leader needs to know what resources he can count on and assign them according to the time frame, to answer, to recover and to reinvent. First, they respond to the current situation, so that we can ensure the present well-being of our fellow citizens, communicating the different future scenes to obtain anticipation and strong and effective responses; recovering, so that we can learn from the current crisis and come out stronger as plural and open society; preparing, so that we can prosper in the future and shape the new reality. A resilient leader must generate confidence. He'll tell me what he's got to see with the decree that you've given us for his approval. I'll tell you what: you see that once again, and I'm already a mountain, you've preferred to use a style of authoritarian direction and along with the features that everyone agrees are the best to get out of situations of extreme gravity like today. He preferred to escape parliamentary agreements, even from what he wanted to find the dialect, the complicity and the support of the rest of the groups, that is, the opposition, before the approval of the decrees of the law. I've talked to him about what a resilient leader has to be, because we think he's what's needed now more than ever. And you're not. You go looking for each of the features I have mentioned, and you will prove that, unfortunately, I say so, do not complete them, neither you nor any of your government. They have no plan, no strategy, no objective, of course, of the usual; of which, in their naivety, they serve them to give excuses constantly of bad payer. We have told you by active and passive: even though we have irreconcilable differences in many aspects, we are here. Who was his answer? Captain. They have continued to rule in an authoritarian and under-representative manner. They didn't want our help, I offer it in a sincere and transparent way. Well, I rectify, yes, they have come to look for us, now, at the last hour, and for what they are interested in: to be able to approve bills that you have had sleeping the dreams of the righteous during months and months at the squids of the councils. Now, when they have seen that they have done nothing in the whole legislature and are in a hurry to sell smoke another time, they have come to look for us, and they have found us, and we have done what we should do, even though we do not like the forms, because we understand that they are for the benefit of the whole society, and therefore it is worth it that, before this crisis that surrounds us, we react in a frank and sincere way. Today he brings us another of these decrees which, for one band, corrects a poorly designed tax, and which clearly undermines competitiveness on the part of the tourism sector, bringing the recaptancy function to private companies adding a new cost to its results account, and which then does not have a clear return in the form of benefits for the sector, and, additionally, he looks after the tourist offer at our home, and, especially, in Barcelona, respects our competence. You don't need to pick up benchmarking here another time. Here, for example, the French tax, the residence tax, created precisely in 1910 for the hotel sector to obtain resources to improve its tourist offer in thermal water establishments, in front of Germania or Austro-Hungarian competition. Its tax is poorly designed, because it is a linear and non-proportional tax, and has a special impact on lower-priced establishments; it does not take into account whether the establishments are located in border areas with other regions that do not have it in place and that cause a runaway effect. We would not oppose it, on the other hand, since it will last until 1 June 2021, and when this moment comes I am convinced that we can fix this nyap from the government, and we will do something very simple that you have not done, that it is to listen to the main agents of the tourism sector and to pose seny, another characteristic of leadership that, together with resilience, has never had. In reference to the other measure that we are taking from this decree, tell him that we consider it a measure with very little recourse and voluntarist. It is true, however, that she is welcome, above all because she alleviates, in a minimal way, the fiscal pressure on the lower returns. But we are in favour of not saying that it is a disgraceful measure, and I am saying it because its effects are insignificant – we have calculated that it can be a hundred euros in middle – and I am saying it because it is a measure that is designed for all workers who have been affected by an ERTO and whose income is between 14,000 and 22,000 euros, and which also means that they have been collecting 70_percent of their own during this year. Have they posed themselves to the skin of people who are affected by the subject of ERTO and IRPF? Have you thought that many of these people will have to make the statement of income and that they will probably have to go to a manager who makes them the administrative management? Have you thought that the costs of this situation will not be covered to this extent? That's empathy. And you show a little more than you don't. A little more fan of the more populist demagogue advertising wrongly and directly of social measures than afterwards have no real incidence, so that it is impossible to access the aid, so that there are infamous references to divide two_thousand euros between 550,000 autonomes, so that the help is practically insignificant. Do you understand why they're not resilient? To ask him, to finish, that, for the time remaining for the government, I stopped thinking in electoral terms, because we are in the middle of a pandemic of dramatic consequences for everyone. Who else will get out of this experience, and what we can't afford is that ideological differences prevent us from taking the most up-to-date measures at every moment. And these can't come out of any other place than the dial. And, therefore, we will again offer our extended hand to face this triangle. Please take it; all our fellow citizens will appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.176.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mr Rafel Bruguera has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.177.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, good late; vice president of the Generality in office of president... We are dealing with the content of Decree 36 – I repeat: 36 – which deals with two concrete issues that do not mean less importance. In the first place I will refer to the issue of the application of the deduction in the autonomous full quota for the import which results from the subtraction of the autonomous full quota from the state quota, provided that, obviously, this remains in place, in order to solve this problem, which has explained very well the Lord Aragonès, and that therefore I will not be there any more, because we share the reasoning, that, as a result of the Covid, effectively there are many people who have passed or received an ERTO or to receive a subsidy or to receive assistance or to receive a benefit, and that, therefore, for this sole fact of having a_second payer, means that, if they could be exempt from the declaration of the IRPF, they would be obliged to do so. And, therefore, it seems good to us, it seems positive to us, so, that you make this deduction. The second question that is raised in the decree is on a subject that we have also talked about on more than one occasion, the tax on stays in tourist establishments that was introduced with the Law of fiscal and financial measures of the guany assumption, and that we had previously approved another decree with which the application was postponed, the implementation of this appeal to 1 generation, and now we approve until 1 June. Sounds good to us, too. Our position respects the known as the tourist tax or tax on stays in tourist establishments is well known. We are supporters of the tax; we believe it is positive. Moreover, it should be remembered that part of this tax went to the municipality, to the municipalities, to the assemblies, and, therefore, it is a source of income that serves, among other things, and especially, for all the topic of tourist promotion, that..., not today, but to which we can begin to find a certain normality, so it will be more important than ever to be uncertain in the policies of attracting visitors, attracting tourists. Therefore, we are in favour of the tax, what happens is that we do believe that in this situation it would be imprudent to apply the tax, and that, therefore, the moratorium seems good to us. That said, therefore, it is easy to understand that our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the validation of this decree. And the truth is, my intervention should have ended or could have ended here. I, the truth, I was... I thought I'd end up here. But I wouldn't like to end up without some thought, if you want, a little more improvised, but also to the thread of the Vice President's intervention, because he didn't speak only of the issues that are..., which led us to debate this Decree Law 36/2020, but he spoke of other questions. And I'd also like to do some reflection. Obviously, these two measures seem good to us, they seem insufficient to us, in the global context, we believe...., we are talking about the thirty-sixth decree of the law; if I did not err, we are already at forty-o or forty-two, if I am not mistaken, that they would pass in the proper plenary, in the proper plenary. But the first reflection is: many of these decrees are previous modifications; that is, the photograph of having forty, to do so, decrees that deal with aspects derived from the Covid and the need to take measures, etc., could give the idea that, man, god-in-law, have made thirty decrees in which, in more than one, therefore, there are various questions arising from various councils, etc. Well, then, unfortunately the improvisation of this government is demonstrated in the fact that a significant part of these decrees are amended and sometimes modified from previous decrees, as is the case today, that of the tax on stays in tourist establishments. Honestly, Mr. Aragones, and you know it hard to tell us, huh? But we don't have a government. We have a government that does not listen, that does not listen to parliamentary groups, that does not listen to sectors, that falls again and again into the same administrative errors. The problem arising from the conflict with the autonomes... you were talking about management problems on the part of the ERTOS application. So, look, because of management problems, those of the management of the help to the autonomes; that you that have provoked has been very clearly a competition, a war between autonomes to see who was the one that had the best connection and managed to connect to be... Therefore, these aids are not given as a function of who needs it the most, but who has the luck of connecting before the internet and who does not fit it when connected with the department. But it is that, moreover, they affect the error, because there are subsequent decrees to this one that continue to speak of that "while the presuppositional game is not exhausted. Therefore, you have now passed a decree that affects cultural issues and will cause the cultural sector to compete again to see that it can make the request before the presuppositional game ends, because it will obviously be insufficient to cover all the needs. Miri, without going any further this morning, a few spokespersons from parliamentary groups have had a meeting with music schools. Look, either I've looked at it very badly or in the decree that it leaked yesterday they don't appear, but they're closed. They're not here! Nowhere does it talk about music schools, neither municipal nor private. If you associate... you might think that you associate with extracurricular activities. But, look, I'm a student of a music school, my people's, and I went to class to sell them in the morning. So, for what you do to me, extracurricular activity has nothing to do with it; among other things, because it's been a long time since I finished school. So these people are desperate, vice president; they're helping themselves solve the problem, and tomorrow they have an opportunity. I have promised myself that today, since I had occasion to intervene in the plenary of Parliament – I also know that I would like to do so, but I do not want to do so – Vice-President, you are looking, please, at the problem, in this concrete case, of music schools, because they are closed. When the lockdown decree was made, a diver, by the way, I was in class, the director said to me: "Look, we're very happy because we can open the school. At the end of an hour, when I got home, he called me and said: "We, the inspector called me and said no – no – we have to lock up. Therefore, it is a..., if you want, and I do an injustice respect other sectors, but this concrete of the music schools or I have looked at it very poorly or it does not appear in the famous paper of measures that was filtered out yesterday and that motivated the shameful scene of this government that does not listen; not only does it not listen, but it does not listen to itself, because they do not speak between them, it is no longer a matter of a government, I do not know if I say 'two governments, I believe that two do not govern. Because, in a preparatory meeting on a matter as important as the possible start of a dissension in phases that can last weeks and weeks, therefore, the spectacle is produced that representatives of some councils of a political party abandoning the meeting for disagreements with other governing companies – it is supposed – is something that this country cannot afford. And that's why, and I finish, Members and Members, we believe that this Government does not listen or listen to itself, and it does not listen to the sectors, but it does not listen to the Parliament of Catalonia, because the many resolutions that we have approved, and I have said that on various occasions, in this house, with the vote in favour of the Republican Left and the Juntas for Catalonia, nor does the Government implement them. They don't listen to us. They don't care about this Parliament. In this Parliament you can talk about everything, but at the time of taking decisions that are taken are useless. I would like, sincerely, to see a correction made and that the Government is really at the height of the circumstances, because it needs the country and the workers of Catalonia need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.179.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, but little and little late; I insist, little and little late. Look, in the decree, I think it's hard to oppose it there; I also think I don't know if it deserves a law decree – in any case, maybe it could be approved with other law decrees. But I also want people to know what the presuppositional impact is today. In the first place, a measure that has an additional impact for the tourism sector of 2,9_million euros, which had already been approved, and not of the assumption of this year, but of the year you see, huh? I also want to remind you that the tourist tax, as you said – popularly known as the 'tourist tax' – is a matter of real estate for the sector, because, in any case, it is not a tax, is it not? That he paid the tourism sector himself, but only that they pay the customers. But in any case, we're talking only $2.9 million more in the 2021 budget. And the second thing I think is that it's important, is to say, the fact that, in any case, those people who enter less than 22,000 euros and have two payers, and especially in this case, there can be the case, right? But the impact, which is 16,3_million euros, is the year 2022, is to say... Therefore, or else, the resources that the Generalitat has today are not mobilising any more euro, new, but it has to do with the future recapitulation of 2021 and the future recapitulation of 2022. And I'm telling you, I don't understand what they're doing, or I'm telling you... I don't understand what we're doing. That's what I'm saying, but why isn't it spent? Why don't you mobilize the resources you have? I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, right? Or, honestly, if you don't do it for all those sectors that are painted, for all those people that aren't up at the end of the month, it's to say, I don't know, like they're all day of campaign campaign battle, do it by electoralism, that there are elections. But spend it. If it's what I can spend. If this is..., the speech debate we have today is about whether we spend or not. You were talking about, weren't you? , all the celerity, all that is at our hands, and to strengthen the public sector and that the public sector stretches out of the economy. Why isn't the generality doing this? So, most of the measures they're announcing... some are recycled measures that we've already approved of. For example, they announced 102_million euros in social measures; the 40s of guaranteed income and 35_millions of dependency were in our agreement on assumptions. So I don't understand what you're doing. And I honestly say this: this is not the time to control the deficit target. That's to say, it's not reasonable– yes, yes – that they're saying they're doing a 0.6_per_cent deficit target, which is the same thing they did in 2019. With what has fallen, with what is going on – in the health sector, in the catering sector, in the culture sector, in the taxi sector, or so..., in the sports sector, with all those people who have difficulty arriving at the end of the month –, Catalonia has to make the same deficit target as 2019, when there is no deficit target? The thing is, no, it doesn't feel like it. It's to say... or else, I honestly say it: we don't want the first in the class to be in the expenditure and deficit management, we want the first in the class to be in the rescue of people. And besides, I don't understand why... or else, I honestly say it, it's that Mr. Mas-Colell, in the management of deficit and expense, seems more heterodox than you. Or else, I have the feeling that they want to control the deficit. But it's just that it doesn't feel right at the moment when we find each other. And, of course, you talk, don't you? , of..., or so, it has to be the State that rescues, because it is the State that has the volume of resources – and I already agree – but it is that you yourselves recognize the effort being made by the State, with all the management difficulties. And I empathize with all the people you have and have had problems with the collection of ERTOs. But you say this: almost 900,000 Catalans and Catalans, the 31_percent of Catalonia's wage bill, will charge an ERT this year; 900,000 Catalans and Catalans. Or, you know perfectly well the amount of resources that this implies at the level of the State. Just for Catalonia, I think we're talking more than 3,000_million euros in ERTO services. So, come on, there's a rescue plan on the way. But there is also a rescue plan for the autonomous communities. All the requests, all of them, that the Department of Economics, in the negotiation of assumptions, conveyed to us that it needed the State to put in the march, we are putting them in the march, all of them. A non-conditional and non-returnable fund is required: 3.200_million euros, 20_percent of the total volume– not 20_percent of the population at the level of the State –, 20_percent of the Covid fund up to Catalonia, 3.200_million euros. There are no deficit targets, it's just a recommendation. Each tenth of the deficit is EUR 210_million. Why not, in accounts of 0,6, do we make 0,8 or 1? Discuss it. So, let's sit down the social agents, the economic agents, sit down the parliamentary groups and decide with the country that, therefore, we can afford to make a 1_percent deficit. We're talking about four tenths more, it's almost 1,000_million euros. Can't they mobilize these resources? If you have a commitment on the part of the State that there is no rule of spending, that the deficit targets by 2021 are also only a recommendation, and that in any case, the State will finance you all the deficit you generate. If it is that through the Autonomous Liquidity Fund it will generate all the deficit that you need, if it is that the Minister of Economy has said it. So I don't understand why we're here. It also requires a new Covid fund by 2021. There are in the general assumptions of the State, which I hope is coming, 13,400_million euros from a new Covid fund. Minimum, Catalonia will be touched, by population, by more than 2,000_million euros. And then, also in the assumptions, requests that we also share, such that the State returns to recover the financing in dependence it played. Certainly insufficient, but there are EUR 600 million more. Expenditure, for example, also finalist in habitating; record expenditure by part of the State in habitating. And then what I can't hear is why they didn't start the machine to spend, why do they have the wire locked? Or is it, why, in the accounts of 20_million euros in self-government, not 100? As we were at least fifty thousand autonomous of the hundred thousand that they had right according to the conditions that you set. So, well, if that's not really what we're talking about, but if they really think that this year we're going to make a deficit of 0.6, then I think the generality has room to generate a lot more expense and actually attend to the social sectors that are going through it badly and, above all, to stop making decrees without tone or sound, that is, forty decrees. What's more, I've said it fifty thousand times: I think a lot of them have more to do with an electoral competition between you and even in the government's own parties. I mean, what did you hear... I told you at the time. How did you feel about spending 50_million euros on a universal water canon drop during the state of alarm and now we only have 20_million dollars for the local people? Or so, when I tell them they don't have a plan, they don't have it. So, they've been deciding on related measures, decreed to re-decree that we've already arrived at the election campaign, and that we'd already find, and in the end we've found that the elections are on the 14th of February, and that it's almost a year gone by, and there's no economic plan to make it a front or what sectors we want to prioritize. Because, well, maybe... or so, before a generalized downfall of the water canon, so I had a lot more sense in the autonomous sector. Or, perhaps, the gang of all those people who did charge an ERT, so, probably, just like those people who aren't charging anything. I do not know, or I am aware of it, but this is not part of a debate that we have at the level of the groups, nor of the parliamentary groups, that the only one who marries the table is the possibility of validating or not validating the decrees, and neither with the social agents. Yeah, that's right, the law of rush cams and currents. Now, I'll talk to Pimec, Foment, Commissions and UGT, well, we'll talk about that. So... well, I don't understand. So my question is, why don't they spend? Why does the generality have no capacity to spend more, that is, is it a skill problem? Don't spend – which would be hard, but good – because they're so shambles that they don't want to give money to other departments – which would be even harder? Or why don't they want to control the deficit target? Which would seem incredible to me already. So I'm the only one I want to say, and I'm telling you honestly, Vice President, you have the chance to do it, you have the chance to do it. I ask you: it's time to spend. If I think Catalonia has a future, if it has potential, we'll have opportunities, but it's time to open the door, it's time to spend. And I honestly say to you: I don't understand what the economic orientation of the Government of the Generality is at this time. It's incomprehensible to me. And I'm sorry, this has nothing to do with Spain offends us or Madrid offends us. I fully agree that Catalonia needs a new funding agreement, but unlike 2011, the deficit has not been re-established or public serviced in the autonomous communities, but instead resources have been transferred to be able to endure. I'm not saying it's enough, but there's room for spending. And, as in the least, for example, there would be a shortage. And I think it's reasonable that in the current context, in accounts of making a deficit of 0.6 we could make a deficit over a digit, which is probably making a lot of countries and many autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word now the lady Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.181.0	Deputies, deputies, councillor, good late. Well, we find ourselves in front of a decree of the many decrees approved by the Government in this situation of economic and social crisis, also marked by a situation of health emergency that has worsened this crisis that we are already experiencing since 2008. In fact, today's decree is to postpone the increase of a tax for the second time, the tourist tax, popularly known. A tax that, without this increase, has already been adjourned its payment twice. This is a more general and structural repositioning of the situation. In fact, we would like to know data, to know the analysis made by the Government of these data, what long-term strategy the Government has. We would like to know who are the concrete measures that are planned to be long-term in order to obey or be consistent with these strategic objectives that the Government has. And, therefore, after all this has been known, we would also like to know whether this strategy that the Government wants to follow is a coherent strategy with which it is also asking for different spaces in our society, from the consensus that there is in Catalan society: to talk to political, social, trade union actors, with political forces of all kinds, to be able to explore what social movements, venous movements are calling for. Who are the needy who find each day those who participate in community networks that have emerged from this social and economic crisis. Seeing also with certain economic sectors, small trades, autonomies, social economy and solidarity have shown resilience at these times. And for us, therefore, what is important is a strategy of social and economic transformation that is urgent in our country. And here we are not talking about a new financing agreement, we are talking about building a new country under a few parameters and with a few new bases, listening to the consensus of our society. And we believe that at this point in time this proposal is a strong, courageous proposal, and that, moreover, we should draw up all together, that it is not only the Government that does so through decrees that adopt concrete measures that seem to have no connection between them. I have been reading some documents made by the Government with expert commissions, but I have not just found a thread between the various councils, a coordination between them, a consensus with all these political, social, cultural and economic actors in our country. And I'd like to see this strategy long-term and collaborate and make us available because that's what it is. In fact, before the pandemic an article from the Directa indicated that tourism has an economic pes and jobs like at least 10_percent of the total gross domestic product and world-wide occupation. Figures that are higher, say, in places with Barcelona, where the high tourist pressure zones like Ciutat Vella is calculated that tourism is directly responsible for almost one_of_every_four places of work and of a position similar to GDP. Says, these data aren't a priori bad if it wasn't because tourism monoculture in a hyperspecialized economy generates dependencies that the most vulnerable fan. In fact, if anything has taught us this situation of health emergency and this economic and social crisis that we are experiencing is that this hyperspecialized economy, this dependence on tourism monoculture, has very concrete consequences. And this is a political decision that was made at a certain time and that – I ended up, President – has taken on a greater role since the 92nd and above all since the crisis of 2018..., ai, 2008, has taken on great prominence. And I think we need to rethink this model and we need to talk about a new basis for a different society and an essential social and economic transformation at these times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.183.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, I should like to acknowledge that, as you, the Republican Left, and we, the People's Party, are consistent, we try to be coherent. His fiscal policy, that of the Republican Left, is perfectly well known, and I point out, not that of the Government, that of the Republican Left. She's perfectly well-known. And we saw it in April: increase in the tax on empty housing, increase in the tax on sugary beguds, increase in the IRPF, increase in the tax on estates, increase in the tax on tourism, creation of the new tax on electricity and telecommunications. In April, in full confinement, in the midst of a pandemic. All the parliamentary groups would say to him: 'Ecculti'm, this is not an uncertain proposal. Every single one that gave support to the government, obviously. "This is not an appropriate tax proposal for the current time. Even so, the People's Party said to him, "Treaty fiscal, let's talk about it, we're willing to talk about it, but at this point in time it's a tax burden. So let's rethink all these increments. You wanted to pull forward, you pulled forward and here we are, with modifications on a small part of those taxes that you went forward. Specifically, about the tourist state tax, it's the fourth modification they make, the quinta of this year, the quinta. The first was to postpone the payment of the semester, the first semester. The second was to increase the tax and create the Barcelona tax. Then, the other measure was to postpone the application of the increment. The fourth was to postpone the payment for the second semester. And today they bring us the quinta, which is to be postponed for once the increment. We have put in place a proposed solo for the tax on tourist states, one of them, and we are raising the application of the tax to the right – and we are raising the application of the tax to the right. Because no one can deny us that in the circumstances that the tourism sector is going through at this time the main problem it will have when it can open again and can work again normally will be a problem of competitiveness. Miri, I'm not going to argue with you that in a while they're going to reimplement this tax. We will keep the discrepancies, but in the current circumstances they are pieces, what they are doing: to postpone the payment, now to adjourn the increase... To make a decision, to raise the tax, to stop charging the tax. By 2020 we are no longer in time and surely we cannot refer to the sector; think 'hoper to 2021. There are still a few days because you approve of some law in this sense. Today's the day before the tax. And this is the proposal that we made on the first day and we continue to make today, which we consider to be an essential proposal. Second question. The small modification they make on the tax on the income of physical persons, which a priori to us may seem uncertain, may seem uncertain. He says: "Secute, of course, the workers who have entered ERTO have two payers and, therefore, up to 22,000 euros those who have two payers are obliged to make the declaration, this may mean that they have to pay or not to pay. So, I think I'm going to take a solution that's very expensive to say, "Well, listen, the one who has two payers – the one who has two payers – will make a deduction. All right. So, what's going to happen? That the one who has two or more payers will have this deduction, not because he was in an ERT, simply because he has two payers, nor because he has not been in the ERT will have this deduction. Who won't have that deduction? The worker who covered less than 22,000 euros and had a payer. That's to say, they'll have exactly the same income and some will pay more than the others. Yeah, some will pay more than the others. There's a way to solve this, which you deny, and you keep it on the side of the table, we put it in the form of a law proposal: lower Catalonia's tax rate on income on the trams for 22,000 euros, and so they'll have exactly the same tax treatment for all workers with less than 22,000 euros. And that's our proposal, counselor. Clearly, a government that is not loyal to itself can hardly be loyal to the society they claim to govern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.184.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Salvadó has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.185.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Vice President, before referring to some..., about the content of the decree, I will be allowed to comment on or participate in some of the questions on which they have been placed. In principle... he complained on behalf of the Ciutadans Dialeg Group. And, in any case, make one point: the government dialogues with all sectors and does so in a very successful way. And these last few weeks, in a very constant way. And it seems to me that it's pretty obvious, and they can follow it through communication media. Therefore, dialog yes, very, whatever it takes. He's always positive, under any circumstances, and more now. But above all, also, listen to a lot of experts. Listen very much to the advisory committees, the ones who know about the pandemic. And, therefore, we need to know how to find balance, because if the dialog means that if we ask ourselves not to apply restrictive measures to such a sector – and then to such others, and then to such others, and then to such others – and that is contrary in a frontal way to the opinion of the experts, the power we must find... and we must know how to prioritize. And right now... – I suppose we'll all agree – the priority is to stop the pandemic, the priority is to save the lives. A very punctual consideration to reassure the spokesman of the Socialist Party. The Education Councillor, Councillor Bargalló, has met with various entities linked to music schools. Therefore, in this sense they may not have been well informed. Councillor Bargalló met with some entities linked to music schools and planned to continue meeting with them. Surely..., they're not the same ones that met with you – we've found this on many occasions as well. And finally, a little has also opened a very stimulating debate with Mr. Cid, a lot. And I think it's worth it – I was allowed to have a mike – to participate in this debate. Look, now, while I was listening to it, I've been looking for Google – Google is always a very useful tool in these circumstances. "The European Community proposes to suspend deficit adjustment targets in the European Union by coronavirus, March 20. Continua dient... – is La Vanguardia, està en castella, perdoneu –, Brussels, March 20: "The European Commission activated this Tuesday the safeguard clause that allows countries to deviate from the deficit and debt adjustment targets set by the European Union in the event of a severe economic shock to facilitate the necessary spending on the coronavirus. March 20th. Do you know when your Government – the Government of the Spanish State – activates the safeguard clause? Do you know? September 30th. It took more than six months to activate the safeguard clause. The Government of Catalonia has since September 30 to make this expenditure, which you referred to. October months. And today I'm up to date... – Forgive me – November 18. A_me and divides days. A_me and divided days ago you activated the safeguard clause. Do you know how many autonomous communities in August were in need? Captain. Not one. Why? Because his Government – the Government of the Spanish State – did not do what he played when he played, which was to give the autonomous communities the necessary instruments to be able to carry out the necessary expenditure. Catalonia was of the autonomous communities in the month of August that had a lower surplus, but all the autonomous communities were in surplus. Why? Because his government – the government of the state – did not do what it played, which was to make available to the autonomous communities the tools to be able to cope with the pandemic. It took six months for them to do so in a very short time. Today, the Government of Catalonia has been able to activate measures to help the economic and social sectors of our country, long before, with much more efficiency. In any case, make it a little bit of today's contextualization theme. We have had speeches and debates very similar to today in several of the decrees we have been dealing with in this Parliament, and there are already forty-one of them approved. Specifics, linked to the pandemic, thirty-night. And every week, every month, things change. And every week and every month, we have new prospects. And we had the perspective of the first wave, and now we know we're in a second wave. Let's hope we don't have to face a third wave. And in any case, if anyone on March 20 had predicted the glass ball of how things would go at the head of the six-months, it probably wasn't in the world of politics. Maybe some scientist could have this prediction. And, therefore, what the Government of Catalonia has to do – like all administrations – is to adapt, to adopt the measures as we are discovering the extent of this pandemic, the intensity of this pandemic, and the concrete effects that have been produced. And that's why they passed decrees, and I hope the Government of Catalonia continues to pass a lot of decrees, because that's why it's: to work, to do work. And despite the sound, despite the discrepancies that can be interpreted, its function is to do work and to give it an answer, concrete, measured, accurate, and to give an answer to each of the problems that appeared. And it seems to me that, ultimately, the government is doing what it touches and is surely getting to what are the two great goals that we've all been sharing, that the first is saving lives. And it seems to me that if the indicators of mortality that today have been reversed, today we would have had a very harsh session: Catalonia, in this second one, has had 25_percent of the mortality of Madrid, 25_percent; if that was the reverse, in this debate, today, we would have had a much more complex session than the one we are having. And if you want, you can compare it with aragó. Catalonia has 10_percent of the mortality, in this second, that the Aragó. And it seems to me that this, in short, is the main summary of the objective that our Government has: to succeed in saving lives, to succeed in preventing our people from losing their lives in this situation. He said in a tweet the Basque professor of Political Philosophy, Daniel Innerarity, that perhaps instead of worrying about saving Christmas, the Nadal, we would have to worry about saving the people who could lose the Nadal forever, and it seems to me that this is the main objective, and that is what is succeeding. And for another band, a big objective, that the Romanian schools... that the schools are kept open, and, in this sense, at this point, we have only 2_percent of the educational community, of the students, confined, and it seems to me that it is a great success, and it is a great success not only of the Education Department and of the Government in general, but above all it is a great success of the whole educational community, and it seems to me that we also have to recognize them and we have to welcome this effort and this work that they are doing, and that they are getting our children to keep their school class. And in concrete terms, what we approve today... is certain, we have spoken in various decrees of the Law on the tourist tax, and surely, perhaps, will not be the last. If the pandemic ends the week you see, it'll be the last, if not, it won't be. And so we're gonna have to... and so we're gonna have to do it, and it's gonna be bad if the government of Catalonia doesn't do it. And on the second part of the law decree, it seems like it's a measure that maybe someone might look like a little money. Based on the resources, based on the taxable base that each student has. One hundred euros for a taxable income tax base is not small, and, in any case, when we are talking about percentages on low taxable income tax bases, one hundred euros are money. And in any case, it seems to me that it is a measure with precision, a measure that responds to an important need, and that, unfortunately, the Government of the State has not applied, and look that it is easy, and look that it is a few dollars according to some of the interventions, so, that is not even able the Government of the State to pull forward. And in any case, in the end, I decree law to decree law, little by little the government did what it had to do, which is to deal with the needs of citizens, the needs of the economic sectors, and, above all, to help people, which is why the government is, to help them economically, and, above all, to prioritize the objectives of saving people's lives that at these times we are at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.186.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elsa Artadi has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.187.0	Well, thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, councillor. Home, I think it's a little unfair, myop or even in bad faith to try to confuse the citizenry by saying that all the management the Government of the Generality has done is restricted to the decree we're wearing today, when only in this session we're wearing three and we're wearing drawings since the crisis started. And it is obvious, Mr. Pachamé, that it must be done by decree of the law, because I suppose you will not want a processing of eight months to change something that is to be changed tomorrow, let's say it, and therefore, before crisis situations, so let's resolve the crisis, and that goes through the speed and flexibility that allows you a decree of the law, and that adapts there, and that's normal. Before the deputy of the PSC said: "How can it be that it is correcting decrees that have already been carried? Well, because we're wearing eight pandemics. I guess you've been eight months, I don't know what we're going to be like today, and you haven't had much uncertainty about what this evolution would be like, because if you weren't, you wouldn't be doing the ridiculous thing that you're doing to the Spanish government. So it's normal for us to adapt, it's normal for us to remain resilient, it's normal for us to adjust, too. And it seems to me a little cynical – and forgive – Mr. Cid, that you are coming, that you are to the Spanish government, to say that nothing is being done here. It's just that you didn't even do what it was done at the first wave with the first decree. You who are underfunding Catalonia, you who have abandoned the pime, the autonomous, the families, you are coming here to criticize every measure we carry. That they're not perfect, okay, of course they're not perfect; I don't think there's any country that's making it perfect, but at least the generality does things, it's that you don't do anything. It's that, of course, every time you go here to ask, you force us to take out the bullfighters, the military, the Royal House and all this glue of people for whom they do have resources, also for the satellite that is lost eight seconds after launching them. [[remorse of the voice]] And of course, it forces us to be in this situation, and it's that, of course, it's pretty penetrating, because it's that if you compare what you're doing, [[Funnel veils]] Your government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.188.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.189.0	I'm talking to you, if you don't mind. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.190.0	Way to go!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.191.0	If you are able to make a basic comparison... – no matter what, there are publications everywhere – it is that the Spanish State is at the top of all the help. The only receipt of his government, the only one, is that the families are indebted, that the autonomies are indebted, yes, paying higher quotas than last year, and that economic activity is indebted. If you have no imagination, like the least copy of what the European countries are doing, France, the one that makes Italy... Copy the one made by Mrs Merkel. I know they don't like it, but it's doing a lot better: 8_percent of GDP is going there. So, like at least they do what other countries are doing. He reminded us the other day of historian Ferguson..., says that before the crisis of the Covid there are no progressive governments, much so that you like to put the label, and conservative governments; there are effective governments and inefficient governments. And yours is in front of the inefficient, it's in front of the death toll to the aid. So be a little fairer, I'm not saying you don't have to explain and get into the issues. Today we are carrying this measure, imposed by tourism, which I believe Ciutadans has not been able to resist and to make the great criticism again, as every time, as eight years ago they are doing, of the tourist tax. That it is a bit curious, because it makes the same criticism of the tourist tax or any of the other tax figures that the Generalitat has. I don't know, it's a little creatius. If you compare it to the international level, you see, the rates are very low, you're all right... you were quoting France. For more than a hundred years now, visitors have not paid for it, they have not paid for it in case the companies, and do not tell us that we are talking to the sector, because the sector has collected 350_millions that have gone to tourist promotion, that have gone to correct externalities, that have gone to make a better tourist model and, therefore, if they want us to talk to the sector, ask them what they think about the tourist tax. Now, the tourist tax or the ill-named tourist tax... can't make us see that we're the same now as we were a year ago, and that's why we're bringing this decree to you. And maybe he'll have to bring it another time. We'd rather not, we'd rather have the sector recovered from here to the summer. But it's obvious that Covid is changing everything. We, from Junts to Catalunya, myself, who was already in the Department of Economics when it was done, are great supporters of a tax that has no effect on tourist demand, cap. It's not the one in Barcelona or the one in Catalonia, it's not the one in any country in the world. And there's a lot of published academic bibliography on this subject. Therefore, one thing is that we are generally in favour of this tax and the other that we are adapting to a sector that is currently going very badly, which is practically closed and which we do not want to shut forever. It's not about tourism monoculture either, it's not as simple as that. It's about any intercanvi, congresses, conventions, people who import and export, students who visit us, people who work in business. It is all part of the Catalan economy that is open, that is of the most open economies in Europe, a dynamic economy and, therefore, is still more touched by Covid than by other economies. And, therefore, at this moment it would be, if you would allow me to express, surrealist that we are pushing a tax on a sector that is completely up to date, that is about to close, because we would send a rather strange signal, not only to the sector but also internationally. And, I repeat, maybe he'll have to play again, because we don't know what's going to happen with the vaccine announcements, we don't know what's going to happen with the mobility recovery, with the old texts, etc. So, we're going to adapt. And finally, the decree fixed a nyap of the Spanish State, a nyap that existed but had not yet been given a solution. Is the solution recharged? Clearly, it is recharged, because you leave like your own, from the PP, they avoid that the Generalitat of Catalonia has normative capacity and when it has to correct things, that they should have already corrected you, so it is hard to make adjustments. But, look, the generality of Catalonia, despite the tax policy; the generality of Catalonia, despite the few tools it has, because there are very few, and that it should be recognized, if it had not done much more work, it has at least approved forty decrees of the law to help. And to the other gang, and we would also like to be more demanding, they have an alarm decree that does not incorporate any measure, neither for families, nor for the peppers or for the autonomous. And we don't come here with millions of dollars either, but if the Law of Dependence, when at this moment they are financing a 12_percent of the Law of Dependence, when the Generality makes a 88_percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.192.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm done with the debate, and I'll have you know that this time we'll vote at the end of the afternoon, just like the rest of it. [[Decree-Law 37/2020 of 3 November on strengthening the protection of the right to housing in the face of the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[203-00061/12]] So, let's move on to the next, which is the fifth and which correspond to the debate on the validation of Decree Law 37/2020 of 3 November, of strengthening the protection of the right to housing before the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. To defend the reasons for which this decree has been promoted, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.193.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. MPs and MPs, I appear to make the initial statement of what this validation of Decree 37/2020 would be. The Government of the Generality, despite a competitive and financing framework – now explained it to MP Elsa Artadi – much more restricted than we would like, is putting all the tools, all the tools that are at its bottom to articulate a package of measures, a package of measures that sometimes call a social shield before the impacts of everything that in many sectors of our economy, some of which are absolutely strategic, is having this pandemic of the Covid. People are patenting, and it's our obligation as rulers to provide and preserve everything they need to develop their vital projects. This social listening focuses on measures that protect entrepreneurs and workers because this protection is one that can allow us to overcome the enormous obstacles that have arisen and, therefore, that we can meet with guarantees the recovery challenges that we have in short and medium term. Today we have before us a concrete measure which refers to one of the most important factors for developing a vital project, namely housing. We bring to Full the compilation of Decree 37/2020 of 3 November, which is a decree strengthening the protection of the right to habitat before the effects of the pandemic. This decree focuses mainly on ensuring that no person, no family in a situation of accredited vulnerability, who lives in a habitat of a great lord, remains the victim of a denunciation, while the state of alarm or any measure that would restrict mobility is in force. In concrete terms, the decree that we present to you is structured into two major measures. A first is to ensure that there will be no denominations of vulnerable families living in large-scale habitats until May 9, 2021 or until the date on which the Congress approves, if the initial term of the current state of alarm is changed. On the other hand, it is a great measure to ensure that there will be no denunciation, nor in the case of vulnerable persons or families living in dwellings of great warmth, until and when they are occupied, without an enabling title, from before the entry into force of the present state of alarm, always with reports to the social services, but also in this case. And when you get to this point, you have to make yourself – at least this way we have raised a couple of questions with the government. The first is why the Government of Catalonia has to take an initiative of this nature when, in principle, the Government of the State claims that in this second period of alarm has taken steps to avoid denunciations? So we have to do this because the state government actually passed a royal decree, the Royal decree of 30/2020, which is absolutely insufficient. Insufficient to preserve vulnerable families from this pre-denomination risk. In the first place, because it temporarily limits the validity of the measures and places them, like much, at 31 genera of 2021. Therefore, five months before the end of the approved state of alarm. Moreover, because it does not involve adequate coverage of various circumstances of vulnerability that are given in the field of habitation. There are not only situations of vulnerability directly attributable to the Covid, but there are also other situations of vulnerability which, in any case, the Covid may have worsened, but which must also be taken into account, at the time of protecting these vulnerable families before the risk of a denunciation. Beyond the term of office, this was a first point that we have overcome with our decree of law. The state rule is also insufficient because it establishes the suspension of denunciation procedures only in cases that believe vulnerability caused by the impact of the Covid when it is obvious – I said a while ago – that before the pandemic there were many people and families in a situation of vulnerability. The second question is how, through this decree, we want to overcome this lack. And we have overcome it, is the decree that we present them, amending the regulation of the compulsory social logger of Law 24/15– of the famous Law 24/15– so that the great lord is not obliged to interrupt the denunciation process while the state of alarm is in effect and until the proposal of social logger is formulated to all persons or families who complete the social vulnerability requirements established in the same Law 24/15. Therefore, we extend these assumptions, regardless of whether the case occurs, we say before, because of the economic and social impact of the pandemic, to include cases of illegal occupation by families with legal vulnerability and to exclude, so to clarify, those female occupations for persons who do not meet the requirements of vulnerability collected to the Catalan law, at Law 24/15. We have also introduced a new element that we believe needs to make the whole of the current network work better around, yet, the possibilities of denunciations that can be produced, which is that there will have to be a social report updated because the Mosso d'Esquadra, the local police, can make effective any judicial request for precautionary measures. This is a very important point. There's three more adventures I'd like to highlight. First, the decree, the royal decree, the 30/2020, which we overcome with our decree, is a decree that provides for the extension of the lloger contracts. The extension of the contracts for the logging of the royal decree placed it until the 31st generation of 2021. Our standard, the one we carry today to validation, this extensive automatic prolongation of contracts of lloger during also the entire period of validity of the state of alarm, which as we know can widen, we said before, until May 9, 2021. The royal decree that we have passed provides for the possibility to demand the moratorium or partial combination of the income of the lodger only until the 31st generation of 2021 when the owner is a great possessor. Our wide standard this possibility of moratoria, condoning the payment of logger yields, also until the end of the state of alarm. The Royal decree that we only exceed affects loguers, those who are regulated by the LAU, by the Law of urban leases, specifically excludes the mortgage field. Well, our rule extends the mortgage liability, too, because we understand that mortgage-paying charges must also be covered when they are made up of persons or families with vulnerabilities accredited for Law 24/15. All this is done, I repeat, because we do not understand that the measures of the Royal Decree 30/2020 apply only until the end of the year and to people and families directly affected by the impact of the Covid, that there are many others to which they are in a situation of accredited vulnerability long before the onset of this pandemic. And therefore, in order to do so, I would like to point out that the Decree Law 37/2020, which we propose to you that it be validated, is an answer, not only to the principle of broad and cross-cutting action that inspires the measures promoted by this Government – I would like to remind you that this Decree Law has been drafted..., it has been proposed from the Department of Territories and competent in the field of housing, but also from the Department of Justice – but it also responds to a social appeal, and to the requests of many of the groups present in this Parliament. I would like to recall some approach that, from our perspective, from the perspective of the Government, supports the approach we make to this decree, which is to strengthen the protection of citizens before the effects of the pandemic. And I want to read the 14th point of the motion following the inquiry on social policies to face the crisis of the Covid, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú May last 9 November. And it seems obvious that to the light of which I will read – which is very short, it is a phrase – this decree is a concrete answer to this concrete demand as well. Says point 14: "It is necessary to extend the suspension of denunciations in all cases of vulnerable families. Point. And so, what we've done is to collect this young man, effectively, and give him a form of decree, approve it for the government, apply it, and today propose validation. In conclusion, today we are carrying to validation a decree that reinforces the rights of citizens and citizens of Catalonia in terms of housing, in a context of extreme gravity like the present, overcoming, improving, improving much, a state norm that from our point of view needed short-lived and short-lived in the background, following our way of hearing the approach to the problems caused by this pandemic. With this decree we have placed the most vulnerable people and families first of all, complementing explicit petitions from parliamentary groups, acting as we understand that most of the groups in this chamber understand that we must act, seeking better ways out of this crisis, or establishing mechanisms to make the measures effective. It is, therefore, a law that the country needs, it needs to act urgently, so that we will not get out of the social crisis if we do not guarantee adequate protection of the right to housing of those people and families with accredited vulnerability, lock in those who were already vulnerable to the impact of the pandemic and of whom we cannot forget. It is an instrument that gives sufficient legal force to any decision to be taken in the matter of denunciations, on the part of the courts, denunciations of vulnerable persons and families, of great tenors. Many thanks, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.194.0	Thank you, Counselor. Let's move on to parliamentary groups and sub-groups to lay down their position. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Naomi of the Street. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.195.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Calvet, for your explanation. The decree that we are being brought here today is, in our opinion, another example of its disregard for the citizens of Catalonia who are worst being passed on because of the devastating effects of the Covid. They are already starting badly from the title given to the decree, which they have called "strengthening the protection of the right to housing in the face of the effects of the Covid pandemic". "Strengthening protection: what protection are they referring to? If you have never protected that right. Law 18/2007, on the right to housing, obliges them to create adequate housing for protection so that 15_per_cent of the housing stock is of social use, and at present we do not exceed 2_per_cent. In the supporting memory of this decree, Mr. Calvet, you refer to the law of the right to housing saying that some vectors of the law have not had a sufficiently positive evolution. Of course, if they do not invest in housing, how will there be a positive development, if hardly a hard one is spent on housing. Because that is another: that in memory include the economic impact of this decree, they say: "In relation to the measures provided for in this decree, these have no economic or budgetary impact whatsoever. And you won't have any budgetary impact on you because you don't put a hard one, but with the mistake there is in the drafting of this decree – and there's a mistake – explain this to that older person who is in a residence and who puts his apartment for rent in order to be able to pay the. Because with this decree– I no longer know whether it is by mistake or by bad faith or a conjunction of both– you are legitimizing those who kick him at the door occupy, the floor of that person who lives in a residence and who needs to charge the rent of that apartment to pay the residence. And I'll explain where the mistake is. And I repeat: I do not know whether by bad faith or by the incompetence that this government already characterizes. As this decree is drafted, it can also be interpreted as affecting individuals. When paragraph 3 of this decree introduces an additional third provision, they say: "Executions of judicial decisions involving the launching of persons or family units occupying dwellings from the defendants provided for in Article 5.2, which are indeed the great forbearers, shall be suspended. But they are adding the vest, which: "This same measure of suspension will also apply to the cases provided for in the first additional provision. And what assumptions are found in the first additional provision? That the obligation referred to in Article 5.2 is also extended in the same terms to any – any – executive action arising from the claim of a mortgage debt for the default of a rental. There's a mistake here. So, this affects every neighbor's child, whether a big fork or a private, as the example given to him by an older person who puts his apartment for rent to pay the residence. And I don't know if they're aware or not that with this writing they're not only affecting the big forks. If you hadn't noticed, now you know. And this is one of the reasons why my parliamentary group is going to ask that this decree be treated as a bill. But it is that the error does not end here, because in that additional provision we find, of course, that in point b.2 this law also protects the assumption that you have commented on untitled occupants So if you do not modify the wording or this error, if you approve the text as it appears right now in the decree, we would no longer be talking about people who cannot pay the rent or mortgage of your house, but we would also be talking about people, that is, mafias who throw down private floor doors to profit from other people's misfortunes. So this decree not only denotes improvisation, as we have just seen with these mistakes, but also lack of empathy for the suffering of the citizens. Why? Because in the supporting documentation of this decree you also lie about the competences you have, because in housing you have exclusive competences, right, but you do not exercise them because you have not wanted to create a public park of housing powerful enough to deal with housing emergencies like the one we have right now. And if you draw this decree in which it is a matter of housing, but not from the exclusive competences that you have, but by stealing competences in procedural matters when the procedural rules are unique, since the Civil Procedure Act is unique for the whole of Spain, and you cannot modify a single coma – and it has been recognized this morning in the control session by the Councillor of the Interior, Mr. Sàmper. If you present this in Congress, we could sit down and talk about it, because that is where the competencies reside, but they don't present it where it comes from because drawing this decree here comes out for free, as you recognize in the supporting memory, but guarantee the right to housing as required by the Law on the Right to Housing, the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy costs money, money that you don't want to cut off neither TV3, for example, nor the galactic occurrences of Mr. Puigneró. With the billions of euros that you have spent on TV3 right now we would have a stunning public housing park. You know what you've spent on TV3 in recent years, don't you? Thousands and thousands and billions. You who think people prefer: have an autonomous television or have a decent home? I believe that the answer is easy, but you are still in the line of prioritising the competition conflict rather than solving the citizens' problems in order to continue with the false mantra of 'we are very social, but the evil Spanish state does not let us do good things for the citizens. And they sit there with good faces knowing that with this decree they do not protect anyone, because in reality what they do is subject the citizen to a situation of stress and a situation of legal insecurity, which is the last thing that citizens need in this pandemic crisis. Put yourself in the place of those people who can't pay the mortgage or the rent. And you, instead of offering them a dignified solution, whether it is a public housing alternative or an economic aid to preserve housing, what you do is to force them into an extremely precarious, extremely unstable, extremely stressful situation, with the uncertainty of not knowing what will happen when the restrictive measures are completed by the pandemic, because they do not give them an alternative beyond that date. And if they fulfilled their duty to ensure the right to housing, they would not throw citizens into these situations of stress and insecurity. And it is immoral to add that insecurity to the already precarious situation of many citizens because you are unable to invest in housing, to invest that money that you so happily use to water your client networks and to fill all that secessionist manger. And it's just that you guys don't have credibility anymore. It is desolating – it is desolating – to see how you use the data of evictions in the supporting memory, trying to show that your Government is making an effort and that your housing policies are useful. Why do they not tell the truth of the justifiable memory? Why do they not report that, in Catalonia, with its regrettable policies, there are twice as many evictions as there are in the Community of Madrid? According to official data of the General Council of the Judiciary, in 2019 in Catalonia there were 12,446 evictions; in the Community of Madrid, 5,936, much less than half. And in the first quarter of 2020, in Catalonia 2,178 evictions; in Madrid, 1,005. They claim that in Catalonia the evictions have dropped, so they take, of course, as in all of Spain; but they deliberately forget to say that, in Madrid, for example, they have reduced so much more, they forget to say that with their harmful housing policies one_de_cada_five evictions in Spain occurs, where? : in Catalonia, one_of_each_five. It is regrettable, Mr Calvet, that they are also trying to take these data out of the supporting memory. Their housing policies have harmful effects and this decree is one more example, an example of the immoral exploitation of the problems and needs of many families, using them to fuel the competitive conflict at the cost of generating legal uncertainty, causing the opposite effect to what is supposedly sought, because to see who is the individual who is going to put his apartment for rent if with this decree what they do is to tax individuals in addition to large forbearers – they have done it whether they want it or not, I don't know, but the wording is this: it also affects individuals. This decree does not respond to the housing problem, it does not provide for prior restructuring or mediation measures, it does not provide for public support measures, for which they do have competence, but they do not use them because they cost money. That they do not exercise these powers can only be described as immoral, irresponsible and reckless. In exceptional situations, we must live up to what citizens expect and need. This is a principle that governs the political action of Citizens, especially since the arrival of the pandemic in our lives, and in exceptional times more than ever should prevail the best interest of the common good, and therefore when we negotiate with the Government of Spain the budgets, for example, what we put on the table are not particular interests, but the interests of the citizenry. And that is why we have tabled an amendment to the state budgets to incorporate a social housing master plan, to set an example. What are you claiming? : Privileges for yours? , reduce the crime of sedition? Is that your concern in negotiating budgets in the midst of the worst health, social and economic crisis in recent decades? Is that your legacy? Look, we believe that it is clear that the situation is exceptional, and therefore the administrations have to cooperate with loyalty, and each one with his or her powers trying to respond to all the needs and challenges facing citizens. I'm done, President. This is something that you are not doing, and no matter how much prose you put in your speeches, the truth, the bitter reality, is that you are not willing to take away a single euro from the one hundred and thousand procedural beggars to devote it to guaranteeing a constitutional right such as the right to housing; although from you, at this point, we could not expect anything else anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.196.0	Congresswoman, thank you. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.197.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, well, today they bring us to the approval of Decree 37/2020 of 3 November, strengthening the protection of the right to housing before the effects of the pandemic of the Covid-19. We have already said that the pandemic has not so often involved and has a hard impact on the salvation of many people– remember: fifteen thousand deaths, more than fifteen thousand deaths, and almost 300,000 confirmed infections–, but rather a hard impact on their economic and social situation. This fact implies that the different governments dictate measures that try to deal with the severe economic effects of the pandemic, measures that do not only correspond to subsidies or aid for the most affected collectivities, but also correspond to regulations that seek to improve the situation of people who are passing worse, and that, in some cases, it involves that part of these negative consequences must be borne by economic, social and less affected actors. So, in the past plenary we discussed what we called the "rebus decree", from which we have already exposed our position and criticism to the government to make legal decisions, if I may express it, at the time of the decrees. Today we find a decree that does not escape the qualification of Nyap, when we hear it. Let's look at it: the decree contained a single article with amendments to the Law 24/2015, of July 29, of urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and the poor energy and a final disposition. Before entering the detail of the text, we think it is worth remembering that the Law 24/2015 says, because with so many modifications we run the risk of losing sight of what we are talking about. Thus, the Law 24/2015 establishes a series of measures to avoid the denunciations that can produce a situation of lack of housing in persons or family units that do not have an alternative of own housing, when they are within the residential exclusion parameters defined by the law. Among these measures, it highlights the obligation of the great tenors to offer to the affected persons a proposal for a social logue before filing any judicial request for mortgage execution or for payment of the logue. This obligation was extended for the Decree Ill 17/2019 to the requests of the denunciation for the expiration of the duration of the contract of lloger and in the cases of occupation without enabling title, when competing in certain circumstances. With this initial mark, the Government presents us with a decree with three modifications. In the first place, the first paragraph of Article 1 of the first additional provision of the law is amended and extends the wording of a proposal for a social logger before filing certain judicial applications to any executive action arising from the claim of a mortgage and to requests for denunciation. In the second place, a new apart, 1a, is added to the first additional provision of the law, in which it is said that those proceedings initiated in which the formulation of the offer of the lawyer has not been accredited must be interrupted until the stated offer is realized. I. in the third place, add a new third additional provision to the law which speaks of the exceptional and transitory suspension, for health reasons, of the procedures of denunciation and launch affecting vulnerable areas without alternative housing. In this new addition, it is claimed that persons at risk of residential exclusion may be Romanesque in their home while the person obliged to offer a social logger proposal does not credit the compliment of this obligation. On the other hand, when the Mossos or the local police report a complaint calling for precautionary measures relating to the occupancy of persons who are at risk of social, residential, and housing exclusion, they must inform the social service that they have made this request to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. So far the previous ones, which are the Law 24/2015 and Decree 17/2019 and the modifications they propose. We cannot deny that this decree creates more than reasonable doubts for us, that we respect the violation of that established in the Civil Court, and that neither the Government nor the Parliament have the competence to amend, respect effective judicial protection, respect the principle of freedom of covenant which governs with general character in the matter of obligations and contracts, respect the violation of the bases of obligations and contracts, respect the legal certainty in the contractual traffic of the principle of contractual freedom and respect the violation of the principle of legality, legal hierarchy, the publicity of standards, the irretroactivity of non-favorable or restrictive sanctioning provisions of individual rights, legal certainty, responsibility and prohibition of the arbitrariness of public authorities – many doubts. But it's that these legal duos that our group has also manifested to them other people, but they don't just respect the legal duos, let's just say, right? , of legal content but also of its effectiveness. And they have expressed it, for example, the judgments and judgments that will apply it, or even all those entities that join together. Even Vice President Aragones and you, counselor, seemed to be looking at each other in a different way, didn't you? And we saw on the same day counter-possessed statements from one and the other: while the vice president said that they would paralyze the charges, you said that they would not paralyze but that they would make them gain a little more time. Therefore, it seems that even you do not make clear the effectiveness of this rule. It is obvious, however, that the situation in which we find ourselves is quite exceptional. And, before this situation, in which we understand that the social function of property is more necessary than ever, we cannot oppose the ratification of the decree, even if we do not vote in favour of it, because, as we have said, we believe that it is not well settled legally. This government still doesn't do things right. The urgency required to give out to certain needs cannot be the excuse because the solutions envisaged are not well established. And not only that: this government takes on a share of social responsibility for the great tenors – in which we can agree – but, what responsibility does the government assume, in habitation? So miri, we think very little. And you give them that, they say, and some time we've put them on the table. Data from the assumptions of the consolidated assumptions: in Catalonia, 2019 was allocated still no. 194_million euros to housing policies– in 2010, it had been allocated 437_millions, a substantial difference –; in Catalonia, the investment in housing is 33,1_euro per inhabitant, we are under the Spanish medium in the investment, in fact, we are the sisena community for the Cua. And the last data on habitat production: Incasòl 2018 made eight habitats; 2019, 22: 30 social habitats made for Incasòl in two years. These are the data that support the management of this government in habitation. But not just that. You also fail to fulfil your parliamentary mandate by respecting housing. Do you remember the help you gave to people affected by Covid's economic consequences? Do you recall that in this very Chamber we approved a motion on the initiative of the Socialist Group Unites pour Avançar to extend the presuppositional part intended for these aids and to raise the suspension to the submission of requests? They didn't. Incomplete the parliamentary mandate with complete peace, and even in those measures intended for the people who are passing it. And, as always, they will tell us that they are not getting enough money from the State, but they know that this is not so, because, in the band of 57_million euros of the state plan of "living," they will be transferred 14_million more, for this line of subsidies in concrete, and that without counting on the 3,225_millions that will have been rejected during the year 2020, as a result of the Covid, and the extraordinary resources that reign 2021, extraordinary respect for habitation. Therefore, they have resources and what we see is that the lack of political will, the willingness to prioritize housing, to assume their competitions. Because we have to remember them, once more, that the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy confers on the Generality exclusive competence in habitation. I cease to escape their competitions, take their share of responsibility that surrounds them and, if you please, when they resolve in the form of decrees they intend to do so with legal rigour because they are valid for the needs of Catalans and Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mrs Susana Segovia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.199.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs... We find ourselves again in front of a debate about habitating that possibly became a new smoke curtain to store the lack of effective housing policy of the Generalitat de Catalunya. A decree announced by the authorities and organizations of the right to housing, which suspends the denunciations of Catalonia, a capital irresponsibility, denounced by the entities and organizations of the right to housing, announces a decree that says that all denunciations will be suspended from the moment this decree is adopted, when it is obvious that it is not true; a decree that created anxiety, uncertainty and much negation to the families that are affected by a denunciation; a decree that was announced filled with great phrases and great announcements on the part of the Government or, as at the moment, on the part of the Government, and the social organizations and movements that clearly came out to tell it that it was an instrumentation of a drama on the part of the government that it does not know. I mean, I know perfectly well. In fact, you said it yourself shortly after the adoption of this decree, but when great graphics and posters had already been released by the sectors of Esquerra Republicana, of the Council of Justice, they said: "The denunciations are ending and the denunciations are suspended, the denunciations in Catalonia are over. And that wasn't true. This decree has been, once more, a smoke curtain to cover the political lack of housing of the Generality – and we will say once and for all – the paralyzing of the reversal and the construction of public housing of the logger, the ridiculous import of help at the logger, following the structurals, following what has been done for the emergence. The absolute incapacity of this government to respond to a housing emergency affecting thousands and thousands of families in Catalonia. And not only do they not allocate resources, but they do not just apply the legal mechanisms of which you yourself have been endowed, through decree, through legislative amendments in this Parliament, such as – and it has already been said – the Law for the Right to Housing, such as Law 24/2015, which has also been said, such as Decree 17/2019 or the law regulating the loguers, a law that we also approved here in September, which we also announced with great pride the parliamentary groups that we had proposed and also for one part of the Government – for one part. We already know that the other one went through a bit of a counter and they were not too satisfied with this law, but that to these heights, therefore, there was no deployment of the mechanisms that were provided for in the law of the lodger. There was no sanction. In fact, we have the Llogators Union quite indignant and sufficiently engaged in inaction at the time of demanding the compliment of this law. In fact, we have just seen that there will be no sanctions until it is known when 2021, because now a campaign will begin which, with great calm, will be dedicated to informing the owners and the great owners of whom are the implications of the regulation of loguers. And then we'll do some inspections. And then, if ever, we'll make sanctions. We don't know if this also has to do with the fact that this competition just fell to the Catalan Consumer Agency, which is right at the company consultancy, which is just a joint consultancy for Catalonia. They don't know if there can be any relationship. We don't know what they're waiting for to apply these mechanisms and make sure the law of the logger is complete. Perhaps – perhaps – you spend too much time, that there is no impact and then they can say, those who say that they do not believe, in the regulation of loguers as a mechanism: "Do you see how right we are, that it did not serve as a king, this law? Or perhaps they hoped that it would be appealed to the Constitution by the Government of the Spanish State and would not have to apply it. And that's not just a moment ago, but, more than that, you know that you're next to the law of regular housing the loggers throughout the state and enable the necessary mechanisms. Therefore, no illusions are made, he will not go to the Constitutional, this law, and he will have to apply it. But, come on, let's not fill out what you're saying and what you're saying in this Parliament is not a surprise either. Actually, get used to it. Interestingly, the councillor now says that they have completed a motion with this decree which I still understand has not been voted on. But I'm saying it's good that we're getting so far ahead of this vote... I think tomorrow, I'd say. And now it turns out that this decree was approved two or three weeks ago in response to what this young man says. Fantastic. We're not exactly complaining that you're doing so much to us, as the counselor says. But you announced a measure that immediately suspends the denunciations to Catalonia, which was this decree, which essentially does what you said, which is to reinforce the 24/2015. Basically, what he's doing is he's also reinforcing himself to be credited with the offer of a social logger. Of course, we will not and will not complain and we will not complain that there is such a thing in this decree. I didn't feel like it wasn't going to happen. Now, we're talking about what we're talking about and we're talking about what this decree says, which is basically reinforcing a law that was already in force and that wasn't applying. There is another issue that also includes, that seems particularly important to us and that we want to highlight, that is the topic of the Mossos d'Esquadra and that the councillor Samper has also commented on in some way in various interventions. And it is now that an urgent report will have to be requested and communicated to the tax department every time that an expedient of precautionary measures of unemployment prevails. It is true that the decree says in cases of families that have factors of vulnerability. We would like to know how this can be applied without asking for a report beforehand. We believe that what would be most intelligent is, in all cases, to ask for this report and, once you have the report of social services that believes vulnerability, to apply this criterion. Because we don't know how they can know that a family is in residential exclusion if there isn't really a report on the social services that you say. We believe that the decree – and it has already been said – has created a lot of confusion at all times: to the courts of first instance, to leave it in suspense and not to apply it because they do not know what they can apply, what they cannot apply and how they can apply it; to the same Government, as we have said, that there were some who said that the denunciations and we did not stop, that only a little time was gained and the mechanisms were strengthened, but above all families and social organizations, that came out quickly to say that this was a farce decree. We believe that what has been done with this decree is a lot of electoralism, a lot of grandloquence, but in the end the decree says what it says and says what it is. And what the government should do is a whole series of things that we would like to remind them of all that they can do to make the right habitation. For example and to start, we can start by not crowding the citizens who pose their body to stop the noises. Because we agree that it's a little incongruous to make a decree that suspends the denunciations on November 4 and that at these heights that we are – which has already been said – on November 18, I believe, more than thirty activists have rejected many and have been identified for having participated in the denunciations. This is something we also heard later: "This is not because of the biting law. The law has to be repealed and agrees with the government. But why didn't this happen before, and now we've got this whole thing? This is a change in political will, you're willing to stop those who stop the denunciations to avoid having the confrontational situations that we've had between Mosos and people who are stopping the denunciations. One_second step..., and it was also said and how it was said, Mrs Ibarra said, I will not go into the detail of the data to earn time, but it is to allocate resources to it, it is to allocate resources to it of truth, or so it is to note the qualitative and quantitative leap in allocating resources on behalf of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, which will continue to say that Madrid does not donate to us and that Madrid steals from us, but that with the resources that it is clear that it does not prioritize it and that it does not only do so, but that we have the information that it does not come out on behalf of the Coordinación Fundacions d'Habitatge de Lloguer Social, « Reptes y limitationes de la promoción y la gestion d'habitation de lloguer social a Catalunya, which denounced the existence of a public housing policy. In the case of Catalonia, 0.1_per_cent; in the European mitjana, 0.6_per_cent. And we've already told them before: another thing that they can do as they do with this decree and have the tools to do so is to develop their skills and the legislative resources they have at their bottom, as has been called for many times by the Law 24/2015 Commission or the Llogateres Union: to effectively control that it is the offer of compulsory social logue and that the great tenors do it before starting any sanctioning procedure. And, if not, sanctioning shippers, and with their corresponding fine, who can fine up to EUR 90 thousand for every piss I don't meet these requirements. Surely, that would dissuade many who want to fail the law. But no, they do all that. They don't do this, they don't do expropriation processes, they don't do sanctioning processes for empty floors or for not providing social logger, they don't increase resources to local housing offices, they don't strengthen mediation, they don't create anti-denominational media units, and they can also put up with the stalemate. And, finally and finally, – we say this from here and make it very clear – we must continue to demand and work for the suspension of denunciations at the level of the whole State while the state of alarm lasts. And that's something that's hanging and that's from there where it's going to be able to squeeze and where it's going to be able to insist. And, in fact, yesterday he was able to see how from our group in the Congress, the more Left Republican, the more Bildu, he presented a thought to the presuppositions that precisely seeks this suspension while the state of alarm lasts. Because what can't be is that we have people who are saying, "Get out of the house. Get out of the house, when what you're saying is, "Stay home. This injustice must be referred to. And from here we would like to place the Socialist Party, the PSOE, and the PSC, because we hope to find them on this coin. Because, in fact, there has been a lot of pressure from a lot of areas from this Parliament, from the Barcelona Assembly, from the same group to the Congress, from the same ministries that are between the Government because this suspension is now effective. And it's very difficult. Actually, it hasn't happened so far. This is the opportunity the Socialist Party has not to put itself out of harm's way to the situation of vulnerability that many families see as being threatened by a denunciation in the middle of the pandemic, and we hope to find them here. We hope to find Junts for Catalonia too, so much so that they sound here. Let's hope that the Congress, then, together for Catalonia and the PDECAT, if they can come to terms with it, they can also come to terms with it. Those of us who defend the right to housing have this end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.200.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of now the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.201.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor, councillor. This decree I believe is a reaction to the shame that this government has had to pass by seeing the movement for housing every day putting up complaints in a state of health emergency. Especially curious is the last point of this decree, the one that speaks of Squad Mosses or local police. Don't you? They say that if they file a complaint requesting precautionary measures relating to unoccupied housing of persons or family units that is found within the residential exclusion risk parameters provided for in this law, they must request an urgent report from the competent Public Administration Social Services. Clearly, it turns out that the Attorney General of the State, with all this climate that has been created by, occupations and etcetera, makes an instruction that says that it is now possible to execute a denunciation without judicial order, in certain cases. What's the Interior Department doing? So he runs to adapt this instruction from the Attorney General of the State and, therefore, makes an instruction addressed to the Squad Mosos giving them the ability to execute denominations without judicial order. This parliamentary group has already warned the Councillor of the Interior that this could happen and that the situation that happened to New Barris would end. A disclaimer for whom the Councillor of the Interior had to apologize. Two hours before the curfew in a state of health emergency, the Mossos d'Esquadra went to Ciutat Meridiana to appoint a family with minors, with many forms and, moreover, with racist insults at the time when the Mossos d'Esquadra spoke to us. And now it turns out that you come up with a decree saying that a report should be requested from Social Services. That had to be done all the time. No vulnerable person should be in the street. And it makes them so ashamed what is going on every day on the street, what makes every day the movement for housing to put up with the denials, that they have had to make the anti-denominations decree and have had to open the communication media with a lot of headlines saying that the Government of the General has made the anti-denominations decree. Look, it's not about this decree, we're going to approve it, and we think that all the decrees that we serve to guarantee the right to housing aren't, and so we're not an impediment to this decree. Now, they don't do it because they're ashamed and they're doing things that are absolutely contradictory to what this decree says. Let's see; Sants: forty-five fines, thirty-thousand euros to be supporting the occupation of a building of great tenor when there were a lot of families on the street to which the Administration did not give them housing alternative. What are these people doing? Are you staying to sleep on the street? Now, at Bages, the PAHC of Bages; they came to put up with a denunciation of two great people with a minor to carrec, which are missing five days because the final award of the housing of the Board of Emergencies arrives. And what does the Government of the Generality do? Twenty-seen many, divide_thousand_euros to stop this denunciation. Lots against the veins. El Estela, on the street of Corsica, in Barcelona; they deny her home with her children, with her net of seven years, with a person dependent on a 65_per_cent disability accredited. Fans out of the house when there's a situation of vulnerability and who's on the other side is a big tenor. What's going to happen? So that this great lord would have to have a sanction and that this denunciation would not have been done. So, what did the Government of the Generality do? There are already fifty of 601_euros based on the law bite; thirty_ thousand_euros, or more, to stop the denunciation. Is this the way you have to dismantle the movement in defense of habitation? I think that this movement is one of the most transformative movements today in our country and more strongly, and that, as many times as possible, the more joints there will be, the more they will come together, the more they will come together and each time more people will come out and aim for this movement and, therefore, they will never manage to disarticulate a movement so powerful as to put their head, body, and all their dignity before each denunciation. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.203.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, adviser, deputies, deputies, the decree law that is subject to validation aims to amend the Law 24/2015 on urgent measures to deal with the emergency in the field of housing and energy poverty, and to introduce in that legislation measures to prevent evictions during the validity of the state of alarm and restrictions of mobility to deal with the Covid-19. The decree introduces into this regulation the obligation of large foremen to offer social rent not only in cases of housing acquisitions resulting from a paid donation – which is the current regulation – but also before the filing of legal claims arising from a mortgage debt claim or eviction claims. In this regard, the decree adds a new subparagraph in the first additional provision to state that the procedures initiated for launching must be interrupted until it can be established that the offer of social rental has been formulated. Finally, this decree adds a new additional provision – the third – to Law 24/2015 to proclaim that during the term of the state of alarm or of any measure which entails restrictions on the freedom of movement, the execution of judicial decisions leading to the eviction of persons or family units within the parameters of risk of social exclusion will be suspended. This new additional provision also provides that Mossos d'Esquadra, such as local police officers, in the case of complaints requesting precautionary measures relating to the evictions of housing of persons or family units at risk of residential exclusion, must request an urgent report from the social services by informing the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. In summary, these are the measures introduced by this decree through a single article with three paragraphs. Starting with what could be seemingly simpler – the third paragraph – it is true that this is a temporary suspension with the state of alarm or mobility restrictions, which is therefore exceptional and temporary for health reasons. And since it is designed to help the most vulnerable people affected by the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, perhaps with another legally viable wording we could come to share a measure of this nature, clarifying – yes – that will never affect private owners. The problem is that this wording suffers from an obvious invasion of jurisdiction in procedural matters and, therefore, unconstitutional, since the Parliament of Catalonia is not competent to determine when the enforcement of a court decision can be suspended, and you know it. But it is also that the other two points of this decree make the matter worse, as they amend normative aspects of Law 24/2015 that go beyond the exceptional and transitional suspension to which the virus is obliged, since it is done with the vocation of permanence beyond the pandemic, so that when we overcome the current health situation conditioned by the state of alarm or restrictions of mobility, the current regulatory framework would remain with the modifications incorporated in these first two points of this decree. It should also be added that Decree 17/2019, validated in its day by this chamber, has already introduced amendments to the first additional provision of Law 24/2015 to change the fifth article of the said legal text, and that this decree was the subject of an appeal to the Constitutional Court by our party, an appeal that is currently under way. It could therefore be paradoxical that the Constitutional Court totally or partially overturned that decree affecting article 5, which is now again intended to be amended by this decree. Because the final wording resulting from article 5 of this law, between what may be annulled by the Constitutional Court and what is modified today by this decree, would be a legal spur of discommunal proportions. Therefore, I have already announced to you that in the event that this decree comes forward today, we will evaluate the submission of an appeal to the Constitutional Court for the same reasons as the previous one, for violating the same constitutional principles and for invading jurisdiction of a procedural nature for which it is obvious that we do not have jurisdiction. In short, a decree is submitted to validation which, using as an excuse the current health situation, intends to amend through the back door the Law 24/2015, not adjusting the changes or suspensions of its validity to the temporary framework of the pandemic, but modifies important aspects of this law with the vocation of permanence and incurs the same violations of the Constitution as previous decrees. Therefore, we will vote against validation because this decree is another stone in the normative chaos to which the Government has accustomed us, eroding more – if possible – the principle of legal certainty in Catalonia. And because in essence his proposal with this decree is to move the problem of hands, but without assuming that the solution to it, in fact, would be to put the necessary economic resources so that, in the current health, economic and social circumstances, the problem does not have to be assumed by anyone, but assumes it by those who have to assume it, which is the Government. Thank you, President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.204.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr José Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.205.0	Thank you, President. The purpose of this decree should be to halt the denunciations of families and vulnerable persons during this pandemic. It's the quarter trying to shut them down that makes this Parliament. The first was with the Law 24/2015, which was two years suspended for the Constitutional Court. Also in this Parliament with a law – the law containing returns of the 11th of 2020 – we have also tried to put up with it. The Decree of 17/2019 on urgent housing measures has also tried to do so, so it is the fourth attempt to put an end to the denunciations we are making from this Parliament. And our goal is clear: to avoid denunciations to vulnerable people by big bad guys if there is not an anticipated offer of a social logger or an agreed solution. The judiciary – as interpreted by law and decrees in their perverse way – and the right is coming to us that with this decree we try to erode the right that the owners of dwellings have to live there or to remove 'economic income. But we are talking about a situation where today the vast majority of denunciations belong to habitats that belong to great estates, to floors that have been emptied, that when they are cleared they are left empty, and without a profit neither social nor economic. They are treated habitats only as a speculative good on inversions and banks act as if it were a Monopoly game. As habitations continue to be empty and denominated people end up on the street, many times without housing solutions. I can talk to you about recent denunciations and attempts at denunciation: on the Corsican road in September, on Rasos de Peguera or on the Agudes road in Ciutat Meridiana in October, on Villarroel two weeks ago. They are all denunciations where there is a great tenor, a fund of reversal, two benches and a private person who has housing. And the denatured habitats remain empty, without social use or economic benefit. We'd like to say that this decree will put an end to the denunciations, but it's not like that. Although we have demonstrated in two laws, the 2015 energy poverty and the 2020 yield content, and in two decrees, the 2019 one around the housing emergency and now with this other decree, the will of the Parliament of Catalonia continues to be violated by an interpretation that the courts make of our laws. The courts recognize that we can regulate this matter as we like, but that they can avoid it, because for them the criminal prosecution law and the trial law prevails. The judges assume a paper that does not approach them and alter the will of the legislator, shielding themselves in procedural criteria and extending recommendations that are curiously considered over what is published to the DOGC or the BOE. But that's what Spain's neglect of democracy has become accustomed to, more aimed at defending the rights of speculators and the interests of the 78th rule than the basic rights of citizens. In any case, this is not just a new attempt to stop the denunciations that will stand against the interpretative barrier of judgments. The effects of this decree can already be noticed. The judges, already forced for a quarter of a time in a process of interpreting the will of the Parliament of Catalonia, have had to make an agreement to unify criteria of the first instance jutjats. In this text, where curiously they argue that the Parliament of Catalonia does its job, which is to do you, in a clear violation of separation of powers, include a new criteria, forced by this new decree. A small scletxa that says: "However and seasonally the judge will be able to assess the suspension of the eviction trial according to the set of competing circumstances. Alleleluia. This recommendation is a novelty and it is not a donation in case this decree is not drawn forward. There have been two laws, two decrees to make a small hole in the wall of the Spanish judiciary in Catalonia. But this hole already exists and it's thanks to this decree. Also, since the mediation of Mossos, they have recognized us that the decree has forced to modify a lot of actions of denunciations that had been provided for, saying that its additional third provision – which they have quoted other deputies – includes a condition for the performance of the local police and the Mossos : in the case of denunciations of vulnerable families occupying a habitat, Mossos and the local police are obliged to require an early and urgent report of the social services. This has resulted in a lot of misdemeanours and has left a few others unattended. But it's obvious that we haven't put up with the misdemeanours and what we're doing is making them hard and hard. And putting them together and making them difficult, even if it's not a definitive solution, is to facilitate other solutions. Today, as they say in the Habitat Union of New Barris, putting up a denunciation is already a victory. It is to give time to try to reach an agreement with the owner, it is to give time to the intervention of the social services, the municipal mediation, the housing emergency table, it is to give time to find community solutions, it is to give time not to leave the house. It's time for a good speculation to be used for the social function of gathering a family. This time it takes us to win those who fight in the street to avoid denudations. This decree is what helps to save time; to save time for families. For this reason we cannot accept that there are many people who are manifesting and trying to stop a denunciation. We cannot criminalize a social movement that the only one who does is, that is, defend the path that Parliament expresses as the political will of the people of Catalonia. In this case, we know the Interior Department is working on it. It's a theme we've come up with to try to make the Department of the Interior non-multiple. Especially at this time of pandemic, we ask the Department of Interior to advance the right of manifestation to the application of the law by modifying a bad practice and an unfair application of this law. They've been listening to us. Let's hope you pull this thing forward. But we think that we should extend this situation further beyond the pandemic situation, as saving time for families is important. And housing movement, together with the momentum we make from Parliament, we're the ones who are making it through this time. But I do not want to forget that for many decrees we make in the Parliament of Catalonia and for many slaves we generate and for a long time that we win with our intentions since the legislature, we are not a state and the courts already keep reminding us. We're not a state and we don't have the skills to avoid denunciations. The courts prefer to respond to the interests of speculators protected by the 78's regime. That is why I think it would be a good idea for some of us today to criticise this decree in a way that resembles the Congress of Deputies. We've already done it, by the way, Deputy of Ciutadans. We've already done it. Therefore, it will have the opportunity to vote on it, as some Catalan and Basque sovereignist independenceist groups have done to Congress and the Podemos Group. As Vice President Pere Aragonès says, we're asking you to stand next to the people suspending the charges. It is true that housing policies are not only to put up with denunciations, but here have been followed by continuous toilets to the lack of reversal of the Generality. I thought we'd only talk about this decree, but everyone here is taking advantage of the pre-election period to get the colors out of everyone. Let's talk about taking the colors out. Yes, there is a great problem of supporting housing policy. Let's start by talking about the housing plan that Zapatero started with more than 10,000_million euros at the beginning of the real estate crisis. A multi-year plan that Rajoy reduced to 2,100. But it is that of President Pedro Sánchez is 1,400_million euros. So, it is true that the Government of Catalonia's investment comparison in housing from 2010 to 2020 is lower, but the Spanish state's investment fall, deu-n'hi, huh? Deu-n'hi-do. Certainly, the housing plan was based on the premise that set_de_de_de_de euros would be held by the Spanish State. It's not like that right now. Put three of each of you down. But anyway, today we're talking about a decree that's trying to buy families time. And they ask them to support this decree, to help us save the families, the mediators, the negotiators and the public authorities time to avoid the families being left without a stop. They ask that, since they don't want to regulate it in the Spanish State, as we have seen before, it is easy to pull this partial measure that extends Catalan competitions to the maximum and forces judgements, as we have already seen, to create small seals in their fair interpretation in favor of speculators. They ask them to vote for it because, even if we can't put a definitive stop to the misdemeanours, this time that we make the families win, harden them and make them difficult, for them it's a pre-eminent time. And as, again, the Habitat Union of New Barris says: "Every settlement of a denunciation is a victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.206.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, you have the word deputy Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.207.0	Counselor, counsel, Members, Members, I think it is a matter of assessing, in concrete terms, this decree and the context in which it is approved or proposed to approve it. In fact, in the context of an uncertainty that makes us all bogged down. In fact, we've never experienced a situation like this before. Not knowing what the days and weeks ahead of us will be like about the pandemic and its social and economic consequences generates doubts, anguish and much complexity in managing it. And the government's management adjusts..., today has approved and several decrees are proposed to adjust, precisely, to this situation of uncertainty. In fact, politics must be the space that favored the path of the solution. The space that has to generate trust, cooperation and solidarity because patience is certainly a lot. It's pretty obvious how difficult it is for a lot of people. Emergence is a parable that has a face of humanity, that has names and surnames, that are our lives, and that we patize it very close. And that's why this decree, which wants to avoid the denunciations of vulnerable families without alternative housing. A decree that expands and complements the Decree Illi 30/2020, of September 29, which remains short, that decree. It remains very short when dealing with measures related to the right to housing, because it does not avoid the denunciations of families and vulnerable people during this time of alarm. A decree that is made from a distant look at the problem. A decree limiting its validity to the 31st generation of 2021, when the state of alarm is decreed until May 9. A decree that only deals with cases of denunciation of persons or families affected by the economic and social impact of the Covid, when we know that the crisis also affects much wider sectors and the motivations of vulnerability are also very diverse, because the Covid dumps all of them. A decree which refers only to the denouncements of dwellings to explicitly exclude and exclude those in the mortgage field or the occupations of dwellings of large estates by vulnerable families. A decree that may extend, and in this sense, the proposal that is submitted in this decree is precisely to extend and improve this decree, because, in fact, we cannot take away the people of his house, whether owned or not, without an alternative to a decent habitat. It's more than a political issue. It is, in essence, an ethical obligation. Because the crisis has exacerbated in an alarming and extremely painful way the day-to-day lives of many families who suffer not to lose the roadway where they live and there are many young people who do not see the way to be emancipated. And in this context the denunciations must not be able to occur. We remember that housing is a right that we are obliged to guarantee to everyone and we see with a certain degree of impotence that the public service does not come up to cover the demand, that it begins to be overflowing, of families that cannot access it. In fact, the government in this past time has led to approval in this Parliament of various measures to deal with this issue, and it puts all the resources that are in its abyss, and encourages that investments can also be made through the proposal of tanteig and retraction. Therefore, the interest and commitment of the Government in this sense, in this period, is total and absolute, but insufficient resources, certainly. But this situation of insufficiency has various cares. The resources are insufficient, the public housing park is also inadequate, and the competence of what we have is also limited. Certainly, the Generality has skills in housing – limited resources – but, in change, it does not have skills in the field of court proceedings to be able to intervene in denunciation proceedings, and that is also a problem. In this context, he certainly did not manage it easily. And the exercise of politics is forced to pose doses of efficiency, effectiveness, but also of humility and recognition, because we find ourselves before a problem that has a structural dimension that forces us to have the maximum generosity to create spaces of governance and unity of action in the search for solutions. This intangible value of cooperation is essential; of the joint ventures with the Generality, of the Generality with the joint ventures, the commitment of the State with the Government of the Generality, with the entities of the civil society, maximum coordination between departments – Territories, Justice, Interior... This cooperation has to be favoured and forced, and this decree also went from this, of cooperation and coordination. Go to the hands of two departments and link the social services, which are those professionals who are in contact with the people, who will have to give the report of the social situation and of possible alternative housing to the judicial police – Mossos d'Esquadra, municipal police – which must not be able to act without this report. And that's important. Because, in fact, it is not tolerable, for example, that a joint offers social housing at the time when the Mossos are at the door of the housing performing a denunciation. You've been running out of media for the rest of your life. This happened in Barcelona, however, to which, logically, it should be the sharing of strategies, and mediation is one, of these strategies. With the compliment of this rule of the decree this can no longer happen. This is not the time to pick them up to weaken the political opponent, to take out some electoral slogan with a theme like housing. In fact, it is quite unheard of, in the interventions that have preceded me, with a proposal that is enormously positive in order to avoid denunciations, the criticism that it is, therefore, to take part in this question, that it is really an important problem that we have, and that we all share the fact that it is a problem to be tackled of the first magnitude. We place the limit on the jurisdictional mark to ensure that there is no denomination in the period of state of alarm, but we also lay the conditions so that there is no denomination without alternative to vulnerable families the day after state of alarm, so when this day is, we expect it to be soon. And, for that, maximum cooperation. This decree we understand is also the reason for this. From this perspective of maximum cooperation, there must also be maximum stamina with the mafias that derive from the pain of vulnerable families. And also the maximum strength with the great tenors who resist to offer social habitat as they force the law and through unscrupulous denunciations. And also with the bank, which is often intransigent and inflexible with families that really cannot pay the quota. Because, for what it does to denominations, the goal must be zero vulnerable families without having an alternative to a decent habitat. And that's why we need to exhaust preventive actions, mediation, cooperation between departments and institutions, and activate the relationship of social services to security. It cannot be that in the context of a situation such as we are experiencing, the management of it itself follows its ordinary course as if it were, that the institutions are not coordinated, that the bureaucracy is imposed on political wills which in this case are very shared. That is why this decree also forced the interruption of proceedings for denunciations initiated and that the logic of the judicial bureaucracy lasted until there was no alternative to social logging for those owners of large estates. Together for Catalonia we will vote for it, as it cannot be otherwise, and we hope that it will be respected by other institutions of the Government of the State and the Constitutional Court, of course, that we are already accustomed to vetoing decisions of this Parliament. We're at the end of a legislature. Some of the people we're here today aren't there. For example, I myself, and it will be necessary to keep up with the emergence, but also in parallel to begin to lay the foundations and the long lights to plan for a future that will definitely solve the problem of housing access for everyone. We avoid the electoral campaign and party politics conditioning this objective. We know that this requires millions of investments to build what we need, in fact, to build a public housing park to manage logging and a pact between institutions, civil society and the real estate sector. Do it, do it. It's imperative, it's necessary, it's urgent. Unfortunately, we also know that without full sovereignty this is very difficult. That's why some of us work because one day this country can be independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.208.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on the validation of Decree 37/2020 is going to be this late, once the last point of the order of the day is substantial. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 25/2010, of 29 July, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and the family (continuation)]] [[202-00028/12]] The sixth point of the order of the day is the debate on the proposed law amending the Law 25/2010, of July 29, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and the family. In accordance with Article 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for submission of documents ends, we shall proceed to the final debate of the single reading procedure. To defend the papers presented, has the word, first place, for the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, the deputy Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.209.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I would like to start my intervention once again thanking the PSC, and in concrete terms to the Member Ibarra, the single reading process of this modification of the Civil Code, which, as we said in the previous plenary, seems to us a modification that has the whole logic of the world and which, moreover, is totally necessary. In fact, I just need to see the unanimous support of all the groups in the chamber for this initiative. So, I would also like to thank the group proposing that you have accepted the papers that we have submitted to this modification of the groups that we support the Government, and that are on the line simply to find a better fit and a report that fits more closely to the coding of the Catalan Civil Code. Therefore, in no case is it intended to modify the meaning of the proposed standard change. On the other hand, although we share in good part the willingness of the Catalonian Group in Comú Pode and which, in a very similar sense, had also proposed, even though it did not arrive to register, the Catalan Institute of Gifts, therefore, the presentation which intended to introduce the rule which you allow to dispense with the consent of the other parent for the psychological assistance of the minor children in situations where the criminal procedure has not been initiated, we understand that, despite sharing the need for a transformation in this case, in this change, from the technical and legal point of view, it is difficult to incorporate this modification into the text and, therefore, to this end, we will not give support. Basically, for a technical matter, huh? , because from a legal point of view the rights of parents are violated and because the hierarchy of powers is countered and violated in this case. Despite all this, despite these considerations, from the legal point of view, we are fully aware of the gravity of the situation in which rape directly affects the youngest children and the need for protection. Therefore, it must also be remembered that the Administration must comply in this case with the civil norms governing the filial relationship. Moreover, it should be remembered that the Administration always has mechanisms at its disposal which it can use to obtain this purpose, such as the complaint to the prosecutor's office, the court or the police, as well as to accompany the victim because he denounced or started the corresponding procedure. And here, at this point, in this follow-up to the victim, I would like to put up with a _second, and take advantage of these minutes of Faristol and also the closeness of November 25th, in this case, to ask, and I think that we are on a good side all of us agree, the rest of the parliamentary groups of the need to make a rethink also of justice, of the standard march – I know that the company Jenn Díaz, that other Members of Parliament are also working on the amendment of the Law against Masclist Violence – because it turns out that 80_percent of these masclist rapes never manage to report. And here we have a problem and we have a very difficult problem, because it means that eight of every woman who suffers from these rapes, with the consequences that they also go for the child in case there are, so they don't report. And, therefore, with the wording that we approve today, despite taking this step forward, the needs of these children, these children and children, and not of their mothers, would not be covered. We understand that this is a big issue, this prism change, that it has to involve a legislative change and I would say that even a cultural change, right? What else do we have to go there, which we have to deal with so many of the Catalan optics, but also, in this case, in the field of the Spanish and even European State, huh? The other day she was talking to Euro MP Diana Riba about this issue, and also about this change of eyes in the European arena. We have a lot of work to do to change this look that must always, always, place the victims in the centre. And let us remember at this point that the sons and daughters of the abusive parents are victims – they are victims. Infants are surely the most invisible victims, they're second to none, and not always justice. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In fact, many times justice does not first protect it. The change that the PSC made is common sense, it's logical, and I said it the other day, I recognize that I had to read two or three times to assimilate that this proposed change was only because the sons and daughters of the couples sentenced for male-to-male violence may be subject to psychological assessment and attention without the abuser having to give permission. Because it's obvious that the attackers don't have a right – they don't have a right – to deny the recovery of victims, not the recovery of infants. But as we said in the previous plenary, in cases of male violence and the role played by infants, we all have to agree to go much further, huh? , the one who said, that change of eyes, a change of focus that, sense of doubt, must incorporate the feminist perspective, that he must hear that the one that must prioritize on the part of the Administration, on the part of justice are the rights of these children and children, of these victims also of male violence. I'm left with a sentence that said: "I'll carry what you love most, you can already go with the children. This is one of the father's threats, which killed two girls from Castelló, going to the mother of the little ones. It was the year 2018. The father killed three- and six-year-olds in greed. The two sentences were included in a complaint that the woman brought to court to demand that she is protecting minors and that the visiting regime be suspended. The court dismissed it because, according to the argument, the police reports of the case assigned a low risk to the victim and because it appreciated contradictions in the report of the sea. It's obvious that we're not doing well, because, despite the fact that we're talking about convictions for maltreatment, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, only about 1_percent of the cases, huh? – may vary, but the xifra is around '1_percent of cases –, the courts agreed to suspend the regime of visits or country authorized by the attacker to minors. And in some cases, as we've seen, it cost them their lives. They're not faked, and it's an exhibition of how the system causes more damage to the victim after having suffered an assault, especially in such an intimate sphere as family, isn't it? How it's all around his house. The priority from the judicial system to prevent the minor from suffering secondary victimization must always be, let us say, we will repeat it many times as convinced, the protection of the infant and not the application of the country empowered; the priority must be the infants, not the misconceptions. Being on the side of victims, we also said, is being on the side of professionals who care for them and giving them the legal security they need. Many times these professionals have difficulties in exercising, in being able to help, in being able to accompany these victims and, therefore, it is also important that we can give them this legal certainty. So, very happy with the normal change we're going to approve today, too, am I right? And from the agreement of all parliamentary groups, because it's imperative that we understand that the struggle against masculinist rape is no longer a matter of state, but a world issue, huh? , affects us, asks us at 52_percent of the population of this world. And, therefore, for little ones who follow the adventures like today we cannot let go of no – no – opportunity, no or one. So many thanks and we place them all and all to continue working in this direction. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.210.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Elena Fort.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.211.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, in the later plenary we will find ourselves in front of this Faristol to express with broad consent the support for the proposal of Socialist Groups and Units to advance so as to modify the Catalan Civil Code, with the already repeated aim of allowing the psychological attention of lesser victims of male violence without parental consent in the case of the existence of a complaint or criminal procedure in due course or judgment. To the intervention that we wanted to make our group – I did not do it personally, Mrs Tarres made it – we wanted to refer to the task begun by the Catalan Institute of Donations more than three years ago, and we especially wanted to make reference to the extensive report of the Catalan Association for the Defense of Human Rights, of 27 April enguany, written for four prestigious lawyers, to a request from the institute. Following the proposals and conclusions of this report, we announced in that intervention that, as far as compliance with the objective of the proposal is concerned, the general compliance, this minimum, would proceed to the presentation of papers in the line of strengthening and enhancing the measurement. I'd like to explain a little what this report says. The report proposes a protocol that envisages a process that begins with the detection of the need for psychological intervention, already for the pediatrician, the midwife, the school, the social worker or the social services, the SIAD, the SIE, the house of assembly; this professional should make a report that evaluates the convenience of the intervention. Then, if there is the repeated refusal of the parent who holds the power, provided that it is necessary and intended to mediate, an administrative expedient should be initiated, also informed for the corresponding psychological technical services, with an audience of the parties concerned and that of the minor, if more than twelve years. The final document with an executive resolution that could be appealed before the civil courts of the family. We understood that the proposal for a protocol, which was highly reinforced in its guarantees in the different procedures, brought together better the experience of the proposal of law which was brought to Parliament and the guarantee of the same minor in a much more comprehensive way. Let us remember that, in many cases, as Mrs Sans said, it could be said that almost in the majority – eight gods, we said – there is not always an open criminal procedure. There are many difficulties in starting this way, both for the lack of protection of the victim, for the abuser, for the environment, for the family, for the lack of information, for the lack of resources... From Juntes per Cat, and at the proposal of the Catalan Institute of Donations, we wanted to present a statement in the line, practically identical, of the companions of the commons, and adopt this protocol which seemed to us to be very guaranteeing and very interesting, and to propose, in the end, that the psychological intervention is able to give without the consent of the abuser guardian, without there having been this criminal procedure, this complaint or this previous feeling. But we were going to have, at the time of preparing all this intervention, knowledge of the opinion regarding this proposal of the Commission for the Codification of Catalonia, which, we do not forget, is the collegiate body which has attributed the task of preparing the proposals for revision, updating and development of the private right in Catalonia and to follow up on its development. The Codification Commission understands that the proposal is against the right and would violate the hierarchy of powers, considering that the lack of the criminal procedure and the consequent failure of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions would disprove minors, with a greater uncertainty, too, about the events, and that it would involve an interference of the Administration that would break the same civil code system, considering that an administered report cannot legitimize the incidence on the person's rights, such as the country of authority, collected by the code. It is, therefore, a refusal to tell us that this prediction that we would have introduced cannot be contemplated by the Civil Code. That is why, in the end, we were not going to present the message, and we merely presented a message, together with the Republican Group, more strictly technical, also proposed for the Codification Commission, which places this article that we add, now added as 2.d point, to 2.36.8, instead of being point 3, as originally proposed, and we give it a text that we understand more accurately. In this line, in any case, we would like to thank Mrs Ibarra for her acceptance, the acceptance of this point, which we consider to improve the proposal to make her more understanding. Finally, and in any case, from Juntes per Catalunya, and I believe that all the groups, we believe that the proposal of the Catalan Institute of Donations, which goes much further in strengthening the protection of victims, should not be left behind and cannot be left behind, and that from this Parliament and from the Government we must work to find the legal formula that allows us to implement it in accordance with the law. In this sense, I place – as you wish, comrade Sans – all the groups to find this way with the broadest consensus. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.212.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the word Ms Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.213.0	Thank you very much. MPs, MPs, Catalonia has very powerful tools to fight the scourge of male violence – we need to get them more juiced and put more resources in it. Catalonia has a specific network of attention and comprehensive recovery of victims of male violence, and obviously has Law 5/2008, the Law of the Right of Women to the Eradication of Male Violence. It's one of the most powerful tools that exists at the state level, and I would say at the European level, to fight the slaughter of masculinist rapes. An innovative law that precisely starts from the perspective of the right of women to live in freedom, with security and autonomy; a law that includes prevention, detection, attention and recovery, and that extends these requirements to dependent children, which expands to areas and forms of which they consider rapes far beyond the realm of the pair. And also large – very important – forms of accreditation of these rapes, fleeing centrality in the criminal process. And it's a matter of substance, and it's been said by the Members who have spoken before, because it's a matter that we're at risk of falling out of the process that we're doing today. We need to be aware – and it has also been said – that the vast majority of rape situations do not denounce, do not go through a complaint, and that the tradition and protocols that are implemented from the perspective of Law 5/2008 precisely what they do is to escape from this pre-eminence of the complaint and to attend to all those victims who do not need a complaint for mig, and guarantee all the response to victims, their reparation and their recovery. This was, and is, the hope of the law, that women could access the resources, the network without complaint intermediation, they, their children and their daughters. In fact, all the international standard mark contemplates it: Istanbul, the Recommendation 35 of the Cedaw assigns both the due diligence to the state to realize this attention that gives coverage to women and minors in a situation of male violence. And we read it when we did the one-time reading debate, but it seems important that we remember all that we approved of the Declaration of the Parliament of the Donations, and I will read it textually: "That we ensure the full care of children and adolescents in a situation of male violence with sufficient resources and services, that we coordinate the care network for male rapes and the protection network for childhood with protocols with a gender perspective and with adequate personal training; that we guarantee the psycho-educational and therapeutic care of underage people, in a way that is not conditional on obtaining the consent of both parents. It is very clear that we ourselves have compromised ourselves with this declaration of Parliament. Therefore, we are all in agreement that we should move forward in ensuring this psycho-educational and therapeutic attention in the underage, beyond consent, above all abusive people. Because it is not only the violence that can be caused by psychological or physical abuse, psychological or sexual abuse that can affect minors, but also the violence that they have to witness, to live in situations of male violence in the realm of their family. Before a few examples have been put forward... that have directly led children and children to be murdered as well as from this male-based violence, but there are many other cases where the youngest can see their psychological state and development very affected, and even get to normalize the situation they are living. We insist that what concerns us about this proposal, and that's why we did what we did, is that we focus a lot on the area of complaint. And we are concerned that it can be read as a setback that is already being done, effectively, in cases of care for victims and minors and adolescents, which is precisely not requiring this complaint. As a matter of fact, we have already said, up to a thousand cases of women seeking support, trying to escape the violence and that this is not the case with the complaint. And why don't they go through the complaint? And these causes are also many, and many have to do with this institutional rape, with this re-victimization of women who go through the whole process of the lawsuit. We still don't... or so, we don't have channels yet to report that they don't take into account the situation of vulnerability and the risk of women, with professionals who are often not well-formed, in judges who don't have the conditions and the minimum resources to be able to give it an answer. In fact, it was also commented during the process of the reform of Law 5/2008, that we are making a very fast pace for the deputies of the groups that we are here to try to approve it before the end of this legislature..., but we have been able to hear judges, lawyers, police officers who have come to us to say very clearly that one of the reasons for which there is no complaint is because the judicial procedure does not guarantee the rights of women throughout this issue, because of the conditions that they have the rights and that they have told us many times. When they are making the complaint, when they go to court they have to share passes with their attacker, because the judge simply doesn't have some facilities to separate the victims from the attackers to whom they are reporting. With aspects like this it is absolutely impossible and impossible to ask the women who make a complaint, because many times the women do not want to go through this evil way again to relive the situation of revictimization. So long as we don't fight this situation of institutional rape in all the way that women suffer in order to be able to file this complaint, we will need protocols that act against the violence much more than the fact that there is or that there is no complaint. We believe this, that the proposal that is put forward today is quite clearly an advent, but that it may also be a risk to ignore all these cases that there is no complaint filed. What do we do, with the children and the girls of women who don't report male violence, but who are attached to male violence victims? What do we do with them and them? With teenagers, who may simply pass them is that they have suffered an attack and do not want to explain it to their parents and their mothers or their legal representatives. What answer do we give to these teenagers who do not want to report and who have suffered this aggression and who do not want their parents and their mothers to know? Less than seventeen years, in this case, because the modification already previews in cases of complaint that, if they are older than seven years, do not weigh the consent either. But when they don't want to report it? When they may be so scared they don't want to report it, because they don't want to see it again. We have spoken to people who are working in the attention network, with people who work in the IS and I have to tell them that they have moved us through this modification, and that's why we did what we did. We've been misled by the negation that this may mean a setback, because there may be someone who gets caught up in this change to say, "Since there's no complaint, you have to ask me for consent. Because what's going on in hours now is that the protocols..., and certainly from the Catalan Institute of Donations, that's why they've also done the recommendation they've made, the protocols that are applying right now the professionals don't do that. Professionals know that they can treat and apply this view more extensively. Who are the criteria that often guide the intervention of professionals? So, first of all, the duty of professional intervention and due diligence. Second place, avoid revictimization. In the third place, to put in front of the best interests of children and adolescents, the progressive autonomy of children and adolescents, restrictions on parental authority when it conflicts with the rights of the child. That's very important. Respect for the right to confidentiality and professional secrecy. These are the criteria that guide the practice of most interventions by professionals who pay attention to victims of male violence in the first instance, from SIAD, from SIES, from all the services of the whole network. We believe this, that as much as the modification that is presented today – and that we believe it is better with the technical aspect that government groups make – is absolutely insufficient. Therefore, they will find us again in one of those situations where reality has gone far ahead of the legislative changes that we can make here. And ahead of the drama that these women see every day, their children and their daughters, the teenagers see. So, yes, we have to replace each other to find out who this mechanism is to shield the protection of children, adolescents in cases where there is no complaint. Let's see if this can be done in the realm of the law that we are now, of the reform of the law of masculinist rapes that we are now debating. I place all the groups we look at if this can be done from this modification. But above all, from here on out, I do want to show all the gratitude and all the recognition and all the support to those professionals who are in this first line of attention, that many times is skipped..., it is not that the laws are skipped, but that they are interpreted in a very guaranteed way, to guarantee precisely this coverage of the rights of women, children and adolescents. And from here this recognition, because, moreover, these professionals many times are also victims of abuse and are also victims of rape according to order because of the lack of resources they have at the time of receiving, because of the disposition they have in the cases they meet. Hence, from here he wanted to end this debate with this recognition and this thanks to the professionals of the comprehensive network of attention to victims of male violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.214.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to position herself, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Munia Fernández-Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.215.0	Thank you, Secretary. Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the staff of Parliament, who is with us here today, good afternoon to all of us. We discussed the amendment of the Civil Code of Catalonia, in particular the second book, concerning the person and the family, introducing a number in article 236. It means, in short, replicating a new wording that the comrades in Cortes have also done regarding the Civil Code of all Spain and that it meant raising to normative rank measures provided for in the 2017 State Pact against Gender Violence, that in which Podemos abstained – something very symbolic: when we all agree, you abstain. In short, this amendment seeks to enable the psychological treatment of children under the age of sixteen years with the consent of one of the parents only, when a conviction has been handed down and until criminal liability or criminal proceedings have been initiated against the other parent for violating the life, physical integrity, liberty, moral integrity or sexual freedom and compensation of the common minor children or daughters, or for violating the other parent. If the minor has reached the age of sixteen, such intervention is subject, in any case, to the express consent of the minor himself. Well, the position of this group is already known, it is clear, and as we have stated in the previous procedure, we will support initiative and change. It is a great satisfaction for our work as legislators, on the one hand, to be able to dispose of their own foreign law in a matter as important as this. And secondly, to have an autonomous chamber such as this forum, which allows its legislative amendment very quickly, thanks to the agreement that we have reached all groups, through the single reading. In this constructive spirit, we have taken this amendment to Law 25/2010. And from Citizens, and as we did in the previous exhibition, we want to put in the epicenter the essence of the matter that is proposed. To whom does this measure benefit? Who is the subject of this change? For girls and boys, children under the age of eighteen, first and foremost all kinds of ill-treatment; although it is true – as has been established in previous interventions – that is when it is visible, when there is complaint. For all other types, endless cases of child abuse and abuse..., right now the law against child abuse and child abuse that Citizens brought to this Parliament is in submission. Well, that's what it's all about, the mistreatment. And there is also machist maltreatment and intrafamily maltreatment, which are part of the context, of the content of the modification, as a context without any doubt. But the very essence of legislative change is the search for the welfare of minors after suffering abuse themselves or witnessing it, which is certainly a form of abuse. A legislative change, therefore, necessary and that we can address, and begin to do justice, because let us not forget that justice begins in the law. One subject, the rights of children, which binds us by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, a law since 1991. By the way, the most ratified international treaty in history; 195 countries are part of it. Perhaps, because caring for minors is attavistic, deeply human, far more transcendent than cultures and much more than politics. He states the professor of the University of Valencia Jorge Cardona that this convention should be considered as one of the more steps up by humanity, in recent years, on the road – not easy – towards the universal recognition of the rights of all people. Because from the 20th century we've brought out the paradigm shift. Persons considered vulnerable: women, boys and girls, persons with disabilities..., were dependent, were weak, needed to be protected by law. They were considered more as subjects of legal regulation than as subjects of law. They were made dependent. Until we awaken as societies seeking the inclusion and integration of all and all. The difference as wealth. All members of society, subjects of all rights. This is the meaning of the convention so transcendental. It does not proclaim new rights for children, they have the same rights as all people. The approach is that states must guarantee these rights. And here we are, in an autonomous parliament, fulfilling this commitment. On the other hand, this measure provides two very important elements – we already commented on in the previous intervention, but we believe it is important to remember again what –: a quota of necessary freedom, a freedom of action regarding the health of their children for the guardian not in the criminal proceedings and, on the other hand, a visibility of mental health as a fundamental, essential axis of the life of minors. Health, which is that harmony that we all have the right to achieve, which is defined as « a complete state of physical, mental and social well-being, not only the absence of disease or illness, as established by the World Health Organization. And as far as we are concerned, how is the health of children damaged when they suffer violence or witness it? Data on these realities have been provided in previous interventions and data on gender-based violence are absolutely desolating. As a legislator, this premise must urge us, because the challenge of this chamber is always to live up to what citizens expect of us: to be useful to their interests, to their lives, to remove obstacles and to facilitate their existence, that enough problems give life for politicians to give more. Therefore, we understand that, in relation to this legislative change, that only one parent is empowered to receive psychological attention from his or her daughter or children when the circumstances that we have cited are a step towards a better future, and that ideal situation in which we can educate children from absolute well-being, for which psychological care is sometimes vital. Addressing at an early age certain fears, phobias, behaviors, provides boys and girls – and in the particular case that we are seeing today, much more, because their happiness has been snatched – a way to be happy or to be able to achieve it someday. And it also gives, to the system, a preventive health policy, where on many occasions there is the key that solves very serious later pathologies, when they are already older. Finally, and we believe that no less important, because we abound in the debate and give all the perspectives – the comrades have already opened many of them – as far as the global village we are and to which we belong, and that, sometimes, in the localism of these debates we are also forgotten, this reform brings us closer to achieving goal 16.2 of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development: ending abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence and torture against children. Well, why do you do it? Because the first of the strategies, the basis of everything to achieve this, is precisely to implement the legislation. I would therefore like to say to you that it is an honour to be part of this chamber, the legislator, in such a transcendent matter. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.216.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units, Ms Rosa Maria Ibarra has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.217.0	Thank you, Counselor. On November 25, we will celebrate the International Day of the Elimination of Violence towards the Donors. I don't get any better dates to debate and approve this bill. On this date it claims the total eradication of male violence, which has murdered 1074 women to all of Spain since 2013, which is when we begin to keep recorded data, and 169 in Catalonia. It's for, really. Also, in these seven years, thirty-seven minors – four in Catalonia – have been murdered by their abusers. Data on male murders – not dead, murdered – are only the tip of the iceberg. Much less visible are the displays of violence towards women and their children. The data offered by the Macroenquest of violence against the woman, which was published last October, are experient. 34,2_percent of women have suffered violence on the part of their peers or exparels; 47,2_per_cent have not denounced or used public aid services, and 40,4_per_cent have suffered sexual assault. In addition, group sexual rapes are increased to younger girls, making the relationship of rape culture clear on the basis of early access to online pornography and the consumption of prostitution. And if we take into account the situation that we are living with the pandemic, we can conclude that yes, that the Covid knows it, as a genera, and has made the situation worse for many women. The 016 scams increased exponentially throughout the territory during the confinement. Faced with these situations, it is necessary to co-educate gender-based and violent roles; we must maintain zero social tolerance before any kind of male-based violence; we must apply the feminist perspective to all political actions; and, moreover, we must ensure a strong welfare state to ensure that women are free from ancestral roles, as well as the strategy against the feminization of the poor and the structural precariousness that we suffer from to be women. And that's why we need to devote resources to it. The fight against male violence must be a priority. For socialists and socialists it is a priority, the fight against male violence, and also against its consequences. And that's why we presented and today we debate this proposal for the law that we expect to be approved, and for which we have been able to hear from the interventions that have preceded me it seems that it will be. A proposal which modifies the Civil Code of Catalonia in its second book, which deals with the person and the family, and which seeks to introduce a new departure from article 236.8, which refers to the exercise of parental authority. Our group's proposal focuses on the possibility that only one of the parents should authorize the psychological care of minors in the event that there is a sentence or a criminal procedure opened for some of the crimes related to gender-based violence, for having made an attempt against life, physical integrity, freedom, moral integrity or freedom and sexual freedom of the minor children and girls or for having made an attempt against the other parent. This proposal has nothing to do with the withdrawal of the State Pact – as we said in our first intervention in the previous plenary – against gender-based violence; in concrete terms, in proposal 147, which provided for the disengagement of psychological intervention from less exposed to gender-based violence from the exercise of the country of authority, and called for the modification of the Civil Code because the attention and psychological assistance that is outside the category of acts that require a common decision in the exercise of this country of power. This modification in the Spanish Civil Code was already produced, and so now it was up to us to make the modification to the Catalonia Civil Code. For another band, this change that we are presenting today is in line with the legislative measures that this Parliament has adopted to advance in the protection of the women and the lesser victims of gender-based violence. Thus, it should be remembered that this chamber approved the Law of the Right of Women to eradicate male-based violence, which provides for the right to effective protection of women, and also that it refers to models of intervention and public policies, specifying directly that the Government has to develop models of comprehensive intervention throughout the territory of Catalonia by means of a network of quality services in all spheres, that it is able to give adequate responses, agile, appropriate and coordinated to the needs and processes of women who suffer or have suffered situations of male-based violence, and also to children and girls when witnesses and victims follow. These intervention models should include, as essential elements, information in primary care and specialized care. And as we say, too, because it is possible to give this specialized attention, in this case, psychological that the children are not found with possible impediments of one of the parents, in this case, which has provoked the situation that needs to be attended to. To this proposal that we have promoted they have submitted papers to the two groups that support the Government and the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. With regard to the Junts emena for Catalonia and the Republican Left, it is a emena that has a purely formal caire, it changes the creation of a new departure from Article 236.8 for the extension of the letters of the second and, simply, it seeks, let us say, a better fit in the writing of the Civil Code. We shall therefore vote in favour. With regard to the issue of Catalonia in Comú We can..., we are presented with an extension of the text that we have proposed, in the sense that there is no need for a criminal complaint, if there is a report on behalf of a service of the care network and full recovery to women who suffer male violence who identify an emergency situation against the other parent or against the children, there would not be enough with the consent of this one in order to be able to provide psychological care for the children. We have to tell you that we have been very appreciative of this proposal, that, at the very least, we intended to formulate ourselves a self-explanatory approach to our original text, in the same sense as you proposed, but after working intensely on it from a feminist perspective too, but also from the legal rigour, we rejected presenting this theme, and we could not give recollection to what you have presented. And we're doing it from a double point of view, as we said. From a legal point of view, they understand that social service reports can be a title that allows access to certain resources, to make certain actions, but that they cannot be used to limit a parent's rights in relation to their country of authority. We understand that we need as a minimum the iniquitous of a judicial process because this is possible. And also from a point of view of convenience, it is to say, for the very safety of minors or of the wife victims of violence, what would happen if the alleged aggressor, who still lives or is in contact with the family unit, because he has no order of extension or precautionary measure, has knowledge of this psychological care without having given it consent. Perhaps the reaction still would be counterproductive. Therefore, even though we are fully aware of the need to advance in the physical and psychological protection of minors, we cannot give them recollection. We are also aware of the need to provide coverage to professionals who care for these minors and who may sometimes face complaints of possible aggressors only for having paid this attention without this consent. But we believe that the same will to protect them does not have to make us lose sight of not only the legal rigour, but also by the whole circle of finding the best way to do it. We've taken an important step towards this protection, but we can do more. We can continue looking for adjunct legal mechanisms to do so. So, we collect what Congresswoman Fort gave, from Junts to Catalonia, and what Congresswoman Segovia gave and we replace ourselves to continue working to give greater coverage and protection to the lesser victims of rape, have suffered directly or have witnessed it against their mother, right? Because, as Congresswoman Sans said, in one case or another they are victims. They will allow me to finish with a few words from Dolors Renau, who in an article written a few years ago, imagine, and still is in force, said: "We need to rethink the affective relationships between the sexes in order to make each person enjoy the human rights of the people, good and respecting the other, always different, with us learning from the relationships between children and children. Children, young people and adults must live day by day with the right to equality, respect for the law, training for tolerance and negotiation. But above all democracy must also be in the kitchen and in the bed, in the room of the children, in the table of the fooder, it must be this vertebrator and reference of the most intimate and daily relationships. In the same way that we have become a public problem to what happened in privacy, we now need to introduce human rights and democratic learning into the private life itself. In order to do this we do not have enough with the laws, we need to have knowledge of disciplines and public policies that deal more directly with people. We must now take the private world to what is so necessary and irreplaceable for public coexistence. Just to finish, thank them for their interventions and their willingness to give recollection to the modification and also thank them for the papers presented that certainly improve the text presented more than they are approved or not. But the will is for the better. Obviously, we don't have enough with the laws, but the laws are the basis for moving forward. We're going on, we're going on one more step, we're going on and on, but it won't be the last. To fight the terrible effects of male violence, we all have to conjure up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.218.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now to position himself has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Manuel Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.219.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, today we are discussing the amendment of the second book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, both the proposal and the amendments. Just a few days ago we were also discussing the appropriateness of being able to make the single reading of this text, and today we have that opportunity to take a step and go further by finally approving that substantial change to protect the most vulnerable, to protect children. The amendment is a modification that consists of cases of gender-based violence that do not require the consent of the offender so that minors can have care and psychological assistance. In what cases? In cases where there is a conviction and what would be the criminal responsibility of the offender or in situations where criminal proceedings have been initiated, which violate life, physical integrity, freedom, moral integrity, freedom and sexual compensation, have not yet been completed. For the People's Party, today we want to reiterate our commitment to this gender-based violence. We must all work together to eradicate that social scourge that unfortunately afflicts our society, that afflicts our country and also our autonomous community, our peoples, our cities. That is why it is essential to fight against silence in order to raise awareness of society. There is also a need for a coordinated institutional response from the municipalities through the deputies, the autonomous communities and also from the Government of Spain. We must improve assistance and assistance to victims and we must also work to train the actors involved if we are to provide the right assistance response. It is also important to put more resources, more economic resources, more material resources, more human resources. The assistance and protection of minors, especially those who suffer and who see their mothers as unfortunately murdered, also means that we must protect these children, who are also victims of such violence. In many cases, ending up, in the event of his mother's death, becoming orphans. Therefore, we must put all the means, all the resources to prevent more murders and more deaths. Over the past two decades, more than a thousand women have been murdered in our country, more than a thousand women. As of the year goes, in Catalonia, we have to regret eleven murders. We have enough reason to work together, to work hand in hand to fight to eradicate that gender-based violence. Not one more, not one more. But such protection, such assistance to minors, is also essential. Those minors who also suffer from such violence on their mothers, those minors who in some cases are also killed. That is why such protection is particularly necessary for the weakest, the most vulnerable. All united, without tolerance for those who attack, who mistreat, who murder. Today we take an important step. This Parliament takes an important step if this legislative amendment is finally adopted. And we understand that this has to be the struggle of all, of all in this common cause. And while today in the Parliament of Catalonia we can pass this legislative amendment, yesterday, in the parliamentary seat, in the Senate, the Minister of Equality refused to account for the State Pact against Gender Violence. In particular – and repeatedly – the PSOE and Podemos government fail to fulfil the tenth axis of the state pact that establishes a monitoring and review system with an annual report with the progress and actions and resources that the Spanish government makes. Neither did the Minister for Equality – Mrs Irene Montero – render an account in Parliament or the person who preceded her in office – Mrs Carmen Calvo – either. Therefore, this is everyone's fight against gender-based violence. Here in Parliament, in the municipalities and also in parliamentary headquarters, in Congress and in the Senate, is the struggle of all. And it is everyone's struggle and resources must be put in place. And the autonomous communities are asking the Government of Spain to provide those necessary funds that established the state pact. And it cannot be that on paper a certain amount is given, it is said that it will be provided with resources, and that the money does not reach the autonomous communities. In the case of the community of Andalusia there are 15_million_de_euros that continue to require the Government of Spain not to delay the payment. This money is needed in this struggle of all against gender-based violence. If we want to eradicate it, today we take an important step in Catalonia. But we must continue to work to ensure that all necessary means are put in place from the municipalities, from the parliaments, from the autonomous communities and from the Government of Spain, and more so when there is a state pact that establishes it. So let's all work together. We are convinced that we must continue to do so, because that endless list of people – of murdered women – is still growing. And we have to put all the means within the reach of any administration so that we don't have another one to regret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.220.0	Thank you, Congressman. I can tell you that voting on the papers presented and the text of the initiatives will be late at the end of the last point. [[Asking the Government about secondary and post-compulsory education]] [[300-00327/12]] The new item on the agenda is the question to the Government on secondary and post-compulsory education, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. He has the word for his exhibition, Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.221.0	Well, thank you. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. We are at the end of the legislature and this forces us to make a certain balance of his mandate. And we are aware that this has been a legislature marked by repression and obviously we do not want to normalize this situation. And we're also aware that in the past few months the pandemic has blown it all up. At the same time, it is also true that this has been a three-year legislature and, therefore, with sufficient time to drive educational transformations of foundations. Unfortunately, however, we must say that we cannot do this balance. And I would say that yours has been a mandate with good intentions, with many promises of change – the inclusive school decree, the pact against segregation – but with little capacity for real transformation, with little capacity to translate these intentions into concrete measures with educational impacts. We believe that your department has fallen into a certain incremental logic and there has been no real educational public policy geared to change, to educational transformation. We have certainly seen some adventures – and we recognize them –, some of which are the fruits of the agreement of assumptions. And we're still waiting to see some more, like the admissions decree, that we're hoping I can see the light before I finish this legislature. But we have also seen some setbacks, and this is what gives little to this inquiry, because we believe that in the field of post-compulsory secondary education and not regulated, it is surely where the deficits have been greater. As we have done on other occasions, we recognize him and thank him for the effort to keep the schools open as safe from the beginning of this course, and we also celebrate that in this second episode of the pandemic the bet has been made, the decision to keep all the compulsory education open, including secondary education. They thought it was very important to do so. I must also say that we fear that on this descalation of these days we will never forget the children again, and I am saying this because in the document that your government companies have filtered, the reopening of the extra-schools appears at the last stage and the door to flexibility does not open. And we have said it many times before: for us school has an essential educational function, play a key role in the reproduction of educational inequalities. And here's a lot more at stake. It's not just an economic activity that we can save with help to the sector, but it's a lot more than that. And here I have to make a specific reference to special rule education and non-regulated training. What's going on, counselor, with the music schools and the dance schools? They are an educational system, they carry out a key educational function that goes far beyond out-of-school activities, because they are spaces, they are centres where professional careers are developed that begin in the children's stage and continue to give access to higher education. And they don't show up. Do not appear in government documents. We ask ourselves whether or not he is the counselor of the music and dance schools, because they have oblivions. And we ask that the music and dance schools – and we are at the last minute to be able to do so – appear in the disscalation document and that they are 'extracted from this same dilluns as the rest of the education system, because it is what they are, they are part of the education system. We don't understand how conservatives can open and, in change, music and dance schools can't, if they're part of the same educational system. Therefore, we ask you, please, to act, to intervene in the Process because it is producing changes in this sense. This morning you told us that the number of confined groups had fallen considerably and that today 98 percent of the students were following their teaching activity. Of course, we have to say that this is not exactly so in post-compulsory education where – as you know – from the beginning of this second one we are in a hybrid model where up to 50_percent of the teaching activity may be in the face. Here I would appreciate it if you could provide me with any data on how this hybrid model is working, if all the centers have joined this 50_per_cent of non-attendance, or if you have to work with other percentages, if you are detecting differences or not between centers, especially between public, private and concerted. Entering the subject, the first one we wanted to put on the table is that from the beginning of the crisis management to secondary and post-compulsory education and not regulated, we believe that there have been very important deficiencies, starting with the rates, very high in some groups: thirty-seven, forty students per class, continuing to break down in the cracks made in some institutes or lack of PCR tests for the teacher, or the changing instructions and contradictions, or the lack of clarity in the quarantine of the secondary teacher, where, for a question of specialisation, it is very difficult to manage the concept of the bubble groups. We have also seen an obvious overload of tasks in the teaching and direction staff. Last week's conflict over self-tests secondary to the teacher's supervision we thought it was just the drop that made the gout wear. It adds to so many management tasks that teachers and management teams have had to assume during this pandemic, leaving behind or at the expense of their teaching and teaching tasks. Like the fact that addresses have to make trackers calling the family of positive contacts. Therefore, a sequence of tasks that we understand to damage the main activity of the school, which is the pedagogical activity. But it's that it didn't end here, because we know that first of all the assemblies are making a huge effort to ensure the cleanness and disinfection of the centers, but not the same secondary message, where the competence is of the Department of Education. Or the question of ventilation. We also ask ourselves how they think they are doing it, because right now what we're seeing are students and teachers with scarves and anoraks in the classroom, when the cold hasn't arrived yet. And we don't know if this is the model or if we have to wait for some company to make a donation, like it went to the schools of Ripollès, right? Well, we believe that aspects such as cleanness and ventilation are creating inequalities in terms of health because they depend on many of the features of buildings and we know that these are very unequal between centers and that concerns us. Therefore, first question: important deficiencies in the daily management of the pandemic at the Institutes. The next thing I know, we think we've seen a hybrid education situation at the post-secondary level for a poor planning of the past, right? With some decisions that – as we have said – do not, therefore, come from a consensus with the educational community. We believe that the hybrid model could have been avoided with good planning, and that means more resources, more space and more teaching. The meetings were made available to the educational centres that have not been used. The teacher's endowment was markedly inadequate and only served to cover over-ratio and, moreover, did not distribute this teacher according to the needs, as it could be prioritising the centres of maximum complexity. Honestly, we don't understand why this government doesn't spend. We don't understand. They could spend, they have the resources, they have the opportunity to expand the deficit. Do it, spend it, because it's because if we don't find ourselves in situations like this. And this has particularly affected post-compulsory education. We believe that this hybrid model increases educational inequalities and concretely at the post-compulsory level has very clear effects, which is the risk or increase the drop-out from school. But it's that, besides, we weren't ready to move forward, to introduce the hybrid model when this second pandemic arrived, because the centers didn't have connectivity yet, the students didn't have the devices, the training and teacher training, the students and families hadn't done it yet. There's no instruction yet that rules the teletreball of the teacher who's applying this hybrid model. Finally, a whole series of questions that we believe we are not prepared to push this model. And this brings me to the third block of questions that we want to raise, which are the series of promises that we see are not being fulfilled. The first, that of digitization, and here we must say, therefore, that from the decisions of the retailers of Mrs Rigau we have lost two years. And I don't know if you can imagine where we'd be now if the 1x1 program hadn't stopped two years ago. In any case, you promised that all the students from ESO third would have access, that all the centers would have connectivity and that it would have training and training. And we'd love to know what we're up to today. They also promised seventy-five social educators, a cipher that we have always said is absolutely insufficient, but that's all, isn't it? , the call was opened, but today they have not yet joined the centers because it has not been resolved. And we'd also like to know what's going on here. They also promised replacements from the first day and the other day we knew we had between three and four thousand students without a teacher because you didn't give up at the time of making these replacements. And a later promise, that of masks to facilitate lip reading to deaf people, that we have had to wait until mid-November to have these masks in some centers– 64,000 masks–, and today we have known that masks are understood and not working. In short, counselor: late and poorly. Well, I wanted to end up with a series of more structural questions about secondary and post-compulsory education, but I was running out of time, so I'm just pointing out now the issues I wanted to deal with and in the second intervention I'm going to go deeper with some proposals. We think we have five hard problems in this area and that the pandemic may be getting worse, huh? The educational abandonment of young people; the deficit in all of orientation and tutoring; the poor planning of the post-compulsory educational offer; the growing trend towards privatization and the escalating approach to inclusiveness. There are five areas where we would like to make some proposals and, in any case, in the turn of the day, we would go deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.222.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, you have the word of the Counsellor of Education, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.223.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, MPs and MPs: I certainly think it's very interesting to talk about secondary and post-compulsory, and certainly post-compulsory itself, because it's for many reasons usually a segment of the education system that focuses less on debates. Sure, because the school, the primary and compulsory secondary, is more universal, has a more important number of students, is in most of the territory, but the post-compulsory is very important. Look, I'll try to draw the general context of where we are, because it's not easy. Who was it, before the restrictive measures that we have taken, before the restrictive measures that we have and before the restrictive measures that we will have until the pandemic disappears, what is the department's priority? For the Department it is to guarantee the full and absolute and indisputable presenceality of the compulsory teaching. Ensure the complete functioning of the post-compulsory, with as much presence as possible as the timing of the pandemic guarantees. That's phoney. In this second outbreak of the pandemic, which we now follow at the general level, but in some parts of the country it is the third, more so... but in this second outbreak of the pandemic at the national level, we have found ourselves with many health experts, epidemiologists, with many, with hospital directors, with pediatricians, with primary care officials, and before the measures that were being asked of us as the Government, to learn to pander to be able to overcome the second outbreak, there was unanimous, of all, eh? And they're probably a-a-thirty and they're very well-known names. The extracurriculars had to stop, and that was all asked of us, because they added a mobility that is more dispersed than the mobility of the regulated teaching, that is more ordered, because they broke the stable groups, because the extracurricular is a very different sum of things, some of which, like the academics of languages, let's say, and we haven't talked these days with people from the academy of languages, so they have a municipal activity law, but they don't have any other regulation, and that was unanimous, they all asked of us. Moreover, a very important part, the majority, asked us for actions at the compulsory post to reduce mobility, because the students at the compulsory post were from the age fringes of the school system who were most affected, and we reduced mobility. One part, no longer important, asked us to do so at compulsory secondary level. And someone, who you could read, asked us to do it in the whole system. We, aware that by social and health responsibility we had to take action, and that, therefore, we also had to take part in the collective and community effort of action, why these days that are going on? One thing that is logical, that we all understand that our sector is very important, and we therefore understand that sacrifices, therefore, are better done by other sectors. That's all we do, and it's logical, but with a general country view we have to be thoughtful and we have to hear that the sacrifices we have to make, and therefore that in all sectors we have to have sacrifices. Then, after listening, the decision was like the government. Obligatory teachings, absolute face-to-face without discussion, the regulated postobligatories, a work of hibridesis, which I will now talk about for a moment. And what does that mean? Batsillerat, format cycles, official language schools, adult schools and special rule teachings, that is, leading to a hybrid title. And the rest of the education system that is neither the child nor the primary, nor the secondary, nor the baccalaureate, nor the form cycles nor the regulated teachings led to a title, therefore, the non-personality. That's the decision he has to make. The lack of presence in these segments, in some we have to understand that it is difficult, and in others that we were not prepared, is certain. There are schools of teaching music that do not regulate that they have been able to take the step to non-attendance and there are others that do not. There are language academies, because the language academies are the same, that is to say, the Official School of Idioms, which is taught regulated, hybrid fan; the language academies, which in the country are many, which are small and autonomous, young entrepreneurs, therefore, are not regulated and fan non-present. Now that we're taking the step with a better number of health data, but they're much worse than they were in June and July, with a better number of health data, but they're much worse than they were in June and July, we're working with the health authorities and with the experts, the steps of re-opening. For music schools we are preparing steps for re-opening, which do not tend, for example, to language academies. I insist, it's another sector, huh? That it's important too, and that it's doing its job too. Probably with more adult people than music schools, but he does his job. But do we insist on what we want with a normal situation? Everyone's open to face-to-face. What are we trying to do? That there is always the maximum open education system in the presence. What do we guarantee? The absolute presence to the compulsory. And in the post-compulsory we have seen ourselves forced to hybridise. We've been forced into hybridism, I insist, when some of the health experts ask us more, they ask us not to be present. And why? Because one of the motivators of hybridism, the most important health motivator is the decrease in the mobility of young fringes of concrete ages, the decrease in mobility. It is true that, moreover, this is one of the problems we have, we have an excessive mobility still, and if we compare it to other places where someone says it is better, it is that we have much less mobility, and I no longer speak of this fringe, of society in general. We didn't get the business world to be on teletreball, we didn't get it, and we don't have the tools to do it. Hybridism, hybridism, we give some data, and if we talk about it after or about what you said, I find it very interesting. In the public battle a 50... between the 50-60_per_cent of faceality is what is being done. For what it does to the formatious cycles, between 55 and 65_percent of faceality. For what he does to private centers, between a 65 and a 75_per_cent face-to-face. And the formula is an 85_per_cent alternate days, a 10_per_cent alternate weeks, and a 5_per_cent other organizations of this type. It is a hybrid that we, for no, say to ourselves, carry the system of great variations, we decided that, say what the Procicate says, would be until the end of this quarter, because we can not now say to our centers: "You, now, three days from now, return to.... From hybridism to beginning to have results too. I insist, the department that wants is absolute faceality, of all things, but the department understands that society has to respond with concrete actions of concrete restrictions at concrete times. And that's what we all need to be involved in, huh? And we can't take responsibility for this to another part of society, because society is all of us, and the answer must always be community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.224.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the deputy has a new turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.225.0	Well, thank you. Counselor, I left 'em with a couple of reflections, huh? The first one. You say: "All sectors say they are important. And that's true. But there is only one who has an educational function, which is that of his department. And we think that's a social key, don't we? And the second thought. Well, we understand that music schools and dance schools don't have to be treated simply as extracurriculars, but they're part of the education system. And, therefore, we celebrate that you are working for a specific reopening plan or for some mention in the documents. Entering a little where he wanted to put it in this second part of the intervention, that there were some proposals in relation to..., more structural on secondary and post-compulsory education. The first, about dropping out of school. Miri, one of five young people abandons the system to finish the ESO or before, and the name of young people who abandon the studies to Catalonia doubles the European middle school. We need to fight against school absenteeism and school drop-outs, and we need to take advantage of the current situation to retain students in the education system, with adequate formary itineraries, with wage scholarships, with the reduction of FP taxes... We believe that here there is an extremely important line of work. Secondly, everything that refers to orientation and tutoring. We believe that we need to increase the provision of guidance departments for secondary schools so that they can develop a real guiding task with students and their families, starting with high-complexity institutes. We think it's a pending assignment, where other territories have advanced more than we have, and so we can learn. And at the same time we also believe that it would strengthen all that is the tutorial action and the customization of education. Thirdly, we have experienced, as is often the case in times of crisis, an increase in pre-registration willingness in form cycles, but this demand, therefore, has not been met with the appropriate offer, we understand, and we believe that a reflection on the offer of cycles, taking into account the job offer and the reality of our country, and expanding and reviewing this offer, also taking into account the situation of the different territories. It is clear, or we note, that the curricular reform of the FP has been more inefficient, inappropriate. Now that the centers are planning, and yet no published legal framework, so they're taking their hands to the head, right? Luckily, a 3- or 4-per-cent student could make a double deal. And the situation is clearly not going to improve immediately. The rest of the students, i.e., 95 per cent of the students, will have to pass a detailed curriculum, with an objective technical and professional training loss that we believe is inexplicable, in the opposite direction, to what we believe our students need. Fourth element we wanted to deal with, all the trend we believe is in privatisation in post-compulsory education. We find it important to address the issue of growth and saving privatisation of the FP offer at a distance. We are experiencing a public offer lockdown while we have an abnormally Georgian FP training network in the private sector, which responds to the massive authorisation of these private FP training centres by the Education Department. In the last five courses, the Institut Obert de Catalunya, which is the only public centre, has lost high school students from 2,830 to 2,582, and higher, from 6,700 to 6,100. In change, the number of students in private centres has increased from 130 to 3,700 in the middle, and from 64 to 9,900 in the upper grade. Therefore, the data are obvious. Catalonia is the community with the most distance students in private ownership centres. Resources to the IOC have been opened for everyone now, in the pandemic situation, but, in change, those of the private centers, obviously, so no. Yes, we have seen it in the health field, but in the educational sphere this is not happening. And we believe that there is a strong trend here towards privatisation of the post-compulsory. I will give you a concrete example, that of the Joviat School, of Manresa, which has expressed its willingness to become a school of public title; which seems to us to be a good news against school segregation, in favor of equity, of the quality of education, in a city, Manresa, which pours many years of extremely high rates and where half of the public schools of the city are of high complexity, and the concerted, no. Now, as it turns out, this step from the private to the public concert is only going to make up the compulsory secondary, and, in change, the batsillerat and the post-compulsory, so no. We think it's a lost opportunity. And we didn't just hear it. And the last question. We believe that there is an approach to inclusiveness also in the post-compulsory level, that it is necessary to intensify the actions included at this stage with the assessment and expansion of specific training routes and with a whole series of measures so that the post-compulsory level and secondary level are also an inclusive education stage. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.226.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make his answer, the councillor has a turn again, too. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.227.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP, one of the things he said in the first intervention that I couldn't answer. For what he does to masks of deaf people, I remember they're the only homologations on the market, and they're the ones we could buy, and we bought them from his homologation in mid-October. We know there are other companies that are working there. So soon there's no market, other approvals, we'll buy them. For what it does to digitization, good news: we have already distributed 5,144 myfis of the students of the post-compulsory without connectivity of the 5,383 that they had requested, and the rest is being done. It is not just to deliver the mif, but its installation and connectivity. Therefore, with the students of the post-compulsory with connectivity we have already acted. Bad news: this morning the state has told us that the thirty-thousand computers that we had to deliver around Nadal will arrive in April. Why? Because there are these international shopping problems, which the State has encountered and we are finding ourselves there. These days are coming to us, for example... at the faculty, some teachers are beginning to get their computer equipment, which we could see, for example, in the networks. But for what you told me about this second intervention – that I think it's the intervention that we have to debate if we haven't, let's say, the most urgent daily questions; it's the one we should debate – I tell you that we completely agree with a great deal, and I can accept it all..., without "even so much, I can accept it, let's say, difficulties that we have and shortcomings that we have. It is obvious that school dropout is..., we have to fight, and we have to fight with more kindness, and therefore I can say with weapons, with very different weapons; with very different weapons because there are many different reasons. We've worked every time more with all the offer of the new opportunities, which is working very well, but the offer of the new opportunities that is working very well is still the recognition of the failure. I mean, we have to make a nine-opportunity offer that's working very well because we need a few nine-opportunities, that we're not going to get there, huh? So it's true that this has to be a tape. For what it does to guidance and tutoring, this is a system deficiency, it's an obvious system deficiency, a deficiency that we have to solve, surely, by asking ourselves - there are all the administrations, because the system doesn't work I show that many young people who need guidance go to the youth orientation point, that they don't have to do anything; that they're not prepared, more than that, to guide them in this. So this is a job we have to do and work among all of us. Planning the offer in the case of FP. There's been an offer that hasn't had demand and some requests that haven't just found the offer. They've increased seats, they've increased the number of enrollees, but there's a breakdown. I, in any case, last week I visited an institute that is here close to... Here there are two institutes: at the park there is one, but at the station of France, I don't know if you know, there is an institute; between the station of France, eh? There's an institute. There's an institute that's called Bonanova, because before it was in Bonanova, and now it's here, and it's a European referral institute on health and safety issues. And it is of the cases that he has incurred a lot of demand – a lot of demand – that he has not been able to cover in totality. And it's the cases that show, more than anything else, what we talked about before, that hybridized theoretically went well, but in reality hybridized, in this case, is an example of what can't be done... For what it does to privatization, we are very concerned about the opening of the private FP online in Catalonia, we are very concerned. We have a policy to get out, which feels persecuted, punished, rejected at the level, now, under pressure. We ask for help, because it is urgent – urgent – to solve the chaos of the online FP that has been opened. Why, moreover, do we have an online FP, in some cases, that most of the students are not from the country, and that we have complaints about where they are said to be what is going on here? Therefore, we are working, being very rigid, having a lot of opposition, not trembling, but asking for help. And finally, for the topic of inclusiveness, okay. And for what he does in the case of Joviat, we're starting to talk so fast, that to me, to my table, I still haven't got the offer. So, we're at a very early stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.228.0	Thank you, Counselor. Before we get to the next point, I'll make them come up with an alteration of the order of the day. The question he would be asking now, which is about the government's policy in relation to the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, is finally not going to see it today, but it is going to be after the question to the government about the right to a second opportunity. You agree with both the parliamentary group that owns the inquiry and the same government, huh? Therefore, I am making them adventurous, if there is no inconvenience, this change to the order of the day. [[Pause.]] [[Question to the Government on the rise of mortality at Spanish borders]] [[300-00335/12]] And, therefore, we go directly to the next inquiry, which is about the increase of mortality to the Spanish border, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republicà. To expose it, has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.229.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, happy to see us again and again here, not in this digital world that looks like we're getting used to it a little bit. We are here today to talk to the Councillor about the situation in Canàries, but let'start the situation in Canàries, as they did the other day to the Commission, starting with Mória. The case of Moria's fire is coming very close in time, isn't it? , to the images we are seeing these days in Canàries, which seems to have completely covered what happened to Mória, and, go on, Mória's prison is still where it is. In Mória, three, four weeks back, five weeks, there was a fire, a fire where thousands of shables were cremated where, concretely, some twenty-one thousand refugee people lived – ill-lived, some twenty-one thousand refugee people. But the fire in Mória is very useful to us to ask if this fire is really an accident, isn't it? , fire as an accident, or it is a direct consequence of a sequence of policies that carry years passing on to the European Union. Therefore, the question is: to Mória, the one who was actually cremating was a piece of cake or to Mória, the one who was cremating was a European value? Were they supposed to be European values? , a follow-up of asylum laws? Was all the European Union's international law cremating? Was he cremating, after all, the most intrinsic humanism in all of us? And if we do all this tracing to see how we get to the day when so many people believe and so many words, we'll see that everything starts with a series of wars, it all starts with a policy of different countries and, therefore, with the obligation of many people who see themselves forced to leave their country to escape through lives that are not legal and lives that are not secure to other countries. The asylum system fails, so we see these images for the television of crowded camps..., the camp of Mória, the largest in Europe, but infinite of camps that have not only been in Greece, but also other points in Europe, plenary. And like all these people who have their creamed beds, they're being taken to camps that have become a prison; a prison from which – and those we've seen – you can't go in or out, but it's not just the independent volunteer or the journalists, but the first refugees. Camps that are, of course, managed by a key player in the human rights industry, that is, UNHCR, and that have an attitude that is more unquestionable, or that I would like to thank, counselor, donated that the Government of the Generality has donated 250,000 euros, if I don't recall badly, because... or as a departure for material as a result of this fire, that review which are the actions that UNHCR has done in that camp and if, therefore, what is to be reviewed is the donation to UNHCR with force or as an entity that helps refugees. Because we'll see that refugee people only have one sun per day, that it's five o'clock in the afternoon, and that it's a bed that I don't think anyone in this room can even tap it. It's a camp where there's no drinking water, it's a camp where there's no shower, you have to bathe, you have to rent with the water of the sea; now that it sees winter, still worse. It is a totally unviable space, with unviable living conditions, much so that it is very short periods, that neither are short periods, because the same UNHCR, that it is in charge of giving the quotes to people to process their asylum, so it is now giving quotes for 2021, for 2022, and therefore chronifies the hope of all these people. Therefore, UNHCR, directly responsible for everything that is going on, is that it is better to remember that UNHCR is not an entity, an NGO, UNHCR is a pot of the states. It's part of the states. The "acnurs" we find for the road these days asking... – these days and all days – asking for money, actually are parts of the states. And it is curious that the states that generate these wars, the states that generate this misery, at the same time have their third pot that is dedicated to managing this misery that generate, mismanage, the same states that block or directly deny rescue to all these people. And now we're back from Mòria, so we have to take the plane and go to Canarias and what we find in Canarias is a very similar situation to what we've been able to prove to Mória. In Canaries we find ourselves, therefore, infinite of falls; and plants at the port of Arguineguin and you find that every three-quarters of an hour, every hour you get a fall or you get a pastry, rescue the majority, goes to say, for Maritime Rescue – an extraordinary work that they are doing there. And, therefore, we find ourselves, moreover, with us at the point of the world, at the Spanish border, where the most offended migrants are now dying. There's no point in the world where so many people are dying. Last week, in a week's term, 480 people died for two thousand arrivedes; two thousand arrivedes, 480 die. So, it's a scandal, this xifra. It's happening, here, in the Spanish State, at the border to the Spanish State, one of the... – with capitals, huh? –, one of the greatest human rights violations in the world with the silence of absolutely everyone– everyone. Excuse me, I'm sorry, but the Spanish State... there's no place in the world where so many people are dying right now as in the Canaries. And while, a few days ago, it was in Canàries, we had the visit of Minister Marlaska, who did not go precisely to see what was the humane situation in Canàries. He went there, why? To announce that he was reactivating deportation flights. That is to say, the only solution they propose is the militarization of the border, the only solution they propose is to take these people, put them on deportation planes and return them to their country. In addition, these people..., in these deportation flights, we find people, for example, from Mali, people who escape a war and who do not have legal assistance or an attorney – now some days have arrived, but who complain that they do not possess them or translators – but there is no UNHCR tent, there is absolutely no information that these people can ask for asylum, they can ask for international protection. But these people are landed in an airplane, they are taken to Mauritania and Mauritania... – if they don't stop them, because Mauritania is the last country in the world to suppress slavery, so it is a country that is strongly racist against black people – so they take these people from Mali and take them to the border with Mali and return them to the country from which they escaped, to their fate. In the spring of Arguineguin, we find more than two thousand people in a spring that is smaller, much smaller, I would say, that this hemicicle, that the same Marlaska says: "Here are no more than seventy_and_two_hours. Everyone went out to deny it, all the lawyers, and all the judgment brought by the CIE de Barranco Seco, which is the CIE that is there in Las Palmas. And, therefore, a management is not that deficient, but regrettable, and that is why from here we are calling for the immediate resignation of Minister Marlaska before this humanitarian crisis. The immediate, urgent and most necessary resignation. And so we find ourselves there in Canarias, so, exactly the same as we find in Lesbos and the same as we find in Lampedusa, which are the borders of Europe laid in it, in the form of prison, where human rights are exceptionally violated, where people are dying at their own costs and where it seems that this does not matter to any government. But it's more than that, if we stick to the causes, isn't it? Because that's the picture we see for television, the one that goes to Canàries, but if we stick to the causes, before, what happened until that boat sank or what happened until that camp cremated, so we find everything we've talked about before: a series of wars, a series of polices of different countries and of which the states of the global north are fully responsible. And this..., for example, a button, which they say, this week in the European Parliament has been reissued the fishing agreement that allows large European companies – the majority of Spaniards, is going to go fishing and to destroy Senegalese costs, for which reason..., if you go for the streets of Barcelona and you dare any keep, that the majority are from Senegal, explain to you that your office before coming, right? So it was fishing. They can't fish now, so their own fall – as they say – served them to fish, serves them now to try to reach the Spanish State. Or, for example, the arms companies of the Spanish State, the case of Navantia also, which yesterday announced itself as sending Al-Diriyah, that it is a new corvette that sends to Saudi Arabia. So, if we have companies that do arms, that armament serves to make wars, so it's not strange that all these people after they want to go to the border... We're talking about the global north and the global south, it's to say, when there's a difference, a inequality so great between two borders, as is the case with the Spanish border, it's normal for people to want to create this border. But it's that, besides, if it's the part of the north that's responsible for what's going on in the south, it's not just that they're trying to create it, it's that they're trying to create it with all the legitimacy of the world. And, therefore, I'm sure it doesn't go so far for cooperation, that also, all this help, just to get our brutes out of all these countries. And before this urgency we are living these days in Canarias, so what we call legal and secure lives; legal and secure lives like most of this Parliament we approved this legislature, but also during the last legislature, so for example make a humane corridor. A human racer that we asked the State to co-finance and that above all authorizes us. So good. Now we have, in fact, added, through some statements to the general assumptions of the State, please, that it is co-financing this humane corridor and, therefore, also the authorization. It's not the only thing we've asked for, we've also asked for a game, a gift for Maritime Rescue. Maritime Rescue is a complaint; if they follow the statements of any person who works for Maritime Rescue Canàries..., there are three people going to take pastries from the sea of more than two-hundred people. So, these people clearly need a reinforcement, a endowment that they don't just have, but in part, if 'lshi is retalizing. And in these forty-seconds that remain with us, then, it would be good to remember that today the Supreme Court has delivered a judgment, presented by Stop Mare Mortum, very important, very clear that, through the case of a concrete person, what it sees us to say is that legal and secure lives are already there and that it is only a lack of political will, and that is through Article 38 of the Asylum Law. Is what's going on in Canaries avoidable? Yeah. Are all these deaths we're seeing there avoidable? Yeah. But what happens is that if we have a minister of the Interior with Grand-Marlaska who acts exactly the same as Orban acts in Hungary or Le Pen acts in France, which acts in Trump in the United States, then we will hardly be able to avoid them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the External Action and Transparency Advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.231.0	Too late for everyone. President, MPs and MPs..., MP Wagensberg, it is clear that the pandemic that we are living has served, for some, to hide this humanitarian crisis that saw the Mediterranean, that saw Canaries and that saw Mória, this cream of values to which you previously referred. Therefore, I am grateful for this inquiry precisely to give me the opportunity to put another shot at the political table of this human drama that we are living, despite the fact that someone has already done well to place this drama on a _second level on their agenda of priorities. In fact, you were talking about the mismanagement, in this case, of the Spanish State of this human crisis, and the figures thus prove it. In fact, in the pandemic... the Spanish State has only made itself worse in time and at these times Spain has become the second country of the European Union in the name of asylum petitions, concretely, 88,000 pending requests for resolution. And, therefore, today the Supreme Court's ruling to which you refer is good news, this good news that, in this case, asylum seekers have this right to process the petition to the embassies and consulates in the country of origin. Therefore, we welcome the fact that it has to be in this case Stop Dead Sea that you have filed this petition with the Supreme Court. As you well know, and in fact I am responsible for the government action of the Generalitat..., as you well know, the Government of the Generalitat has already declared in its moment safe port the year 2019. And as we govern, we remain strongly compromised, first and foremost, in the right of assembly, in the refuge and in the support through legal and secure lives, because we believe, precisely, that the solution passes through the resolution of conflicts in origin and in many cases the better of living conditions. And, therefore, I will continue to explain to him all those policies that are due to end from the point of view of cooperation to development and, for another band, all those policies that are due to end in the field of collide. For what it does to cooperative actions in development, in its moment the Government of the Generality approved the Pla Director of Cooperation in development 2019-2022, a fact that assumed a leap forward in order to adjust, precisely, our country's public policy to this international brand of Agenda 2030 and, concretely, to strategic objective 7, that what it says is that we must contribute to the approach of global reptes, and, in fact, one of its priorities is to give responses to the challenges of human mobility, especially to the right to refuge and legal and secure lives. And, therefore, these priorities, we have established them, and I will give you some examples. In the first place, work with teams of lawyers at the camps of the Greek islands in collaboration, in this case, with Stop Mare Mortum, precisely, for what it means before reference, this legal advice to refugees, which is so necessary. Secondly, participate in the Masar project, for the training of Lebanese municipalities to improve their provision of public services. A third example is to work in this case with Save the Children and UNICEF to address the effects of the Covid outbreak at the refugee camps in Iraq and Syria. A fourth example, and you also refer, we have an agreement with UNHCR, the Government of the Generality, through which the Government contributes 250,000 euros to provide material to the new colliding camp of Mória. And, therefore, we know that this conflict is not resolved with one field, and therefore I take the word and as a transparency exercise, so it is clear that the Government of the Generality will value this action of UNHCR and, obviously, this allocation of resources, in this case, to give solution in this refugee camp. And one more example, we gave support to the Clinical Hospital Foundation to equip the drug production laboratories to the Sahrawi refugee camp in Algeria, through, in this case, the Catalan Agency of Cooperation. For another band, as we have updated, how have we adapted, in this case, development cooperation in the area of Covid-19? The month of May, since the Government of the Generality, we have activated the Catalan Committee for Humanitarian Aid of Emergency, to which we have provided a premise of 1,7_million euros, which has made it possible to finance eleven actions, eleven projects of salvation, access to water and food security in some countries particularly affected by the crisis. These actions bring them, in this case, Catalan development cooperation organisations and multilateral bodies. Examples include Creu Roja, Farmamundi, Metges del Món Association, Pau or UNICEF Cooperation Assembly. Most projects are already unfolding at these times and are being carried out, for one band, to the African continent: in Mozambique, Senegal, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burkina Faso or Morocco, and, for another, also in Iraq and Palestine. A year later, the Government also contributed EUR 290,000 to the Central Emergency Response Fund of the United Nations and this September we opened a new call for development cooperation grants aligned with the 2030 Agenda; a call with a budget of EUR 10 million for projects that promote development education with a focus on gender and human rights, driven by NGOs, universities and search centres in Catalonia. And, in fact, in this sense, I am already moving forward that this next week we will be able to announce, precisely, this resolution of this line of subsidies. And despite the pandemic, we also continue to drive the actions initiated with the 2019-2020 biennial programmes, which from the past year's possible fan twenty-three cooperative actions to the development of seven different countries, with a endowment for this 2020 of 5,5_million euros. For another band, I said before that the year 2019 was constituted the Interdepartmental Commission of Ports Segurs. This group has started preliminary work for the establishment of a humane corridor – before you refer – for forced displacements. This group has also worked on the forecast of a pandemic device, to organize a logistics and health operation at Catalan ports for the arrival of rescue ships and migrants. On various occasions, the Generality and I have repeated to the Spanish Government and the European institutions our offer to help establish a humane corridor for forced displacement. It must be borne in mind that the competent framework for the care of persons seeking asylum or international protection is divided between the Spanish State and Catalonia. While the regulation of the legal and administrative framework for the application, processing and granting of the condition of refugee or international subsidiary protection correspond to the Spanish State, the management of the policies of accolade and social inclusion correspond to the Generalitat de Catalunya. And, therefore, in this sense, I welcome the thought of what you are referring to, introduced to the general assumptions of the State, which will allow or, in any case, if it ends up at a good port, never better said, therefore, allow this co-financing and, in this case, the authorization of this human corridor. Thus, despite the fact that the Generality has formally recognised this competence in the matter of assembly and despite the fact that it has applied for a dozen requests to different judicial institutions against the actions of the Spanish State, divided from which they give us the reason, the State is repeatedly refusing to transfer the resources necessary for the implementation of these programmes in the territorial area of Catalonia. It's obvious that all the work he's doing, and now he was exposing all the work that's been done since the government, isn't enough. And it shows that, so, it's the situation that we're living these days at the canary costs. And a few weeks ago – you made reference to it – so, too, this fire, which ends up smelling a fire of value and which, therefore, we cannot centralize this punctual fact to store, to hide all the humane crisis that the Mediterranean saw and that the Atlantic saw. Therefore, we must have a much stronger response from the Spanish State and from all the states and institutions of the European Union. At the time, they seemed to have reached an agreement. An agreement that has not been properly completed and, every time we ask it to complete this agreement, they are excuses, they are excuses that we have a lot of open fronts and that we do not have the capacity to respond to these challenges. Humane conditions in refugee camps – you too have expressed this – are totally unacceptable. And, therefore, a Europe that is self-identifying democratic, a Europe that is aligned with this 2030 Agenda, cannot afford the luxury of having a situation like that seen in this case by the Mediterranean. It's been a long time – it's been a long time – that we allow people to die in this sea. In this sea that should be a space of intercanvi, a space of connection, a space of dialog. And, therefore, we will not fail, in this case, from the Government of the Generality to insist that all the states that at the time, therefore, signed this agreement, this agreement failed, therefore, fulfilling their responsibilities. It's our obligation to give them an answer. And if we really want to be a democratic society of the 21st century, we have to give an answer. We, like the Government of the Generality – and I think I have exposed it in an extensive way – are committed to cooperation in development – at a complicated time when we need to prioritize resources – and for all those policies of collide. Let us hope that in this case the rest of the administrations, those administrations which have more, of competitions, therefore, assume their share of responsibility and that this crisis in the Mediterranean Sea can be brought to an end as soon as possible. Let's just hope it stays that way. Thank you very much, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-11-18-6601.232.0	Thank you, Counselor. After the inquiry, there is no point in dealing with the order of the day. Therefore, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] All right. So we're-there, then. We shall proceed to the corresponding votes at the end of today's plenary session. [[Decree-Law 36/2020 of 3 November on urgent measures in the field of tax on stays in tourist establishments and tax on the income of physical persons (continuation)]] [[203-00063/12]] And we start with the quarter point, which corresponds to the vote on the validation of the Decree Law 36/2000... [[Pause.]] All right, now. Let us proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree No. 36/2020 of 3 November on urgent measures in the field of tax on stays in tourist establishments and tax on the income of physical persons. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 90 votes in favour – corresponding to 71 delegates and face-to-face and 19 telematics – against 44 abstentions. A cop validated, close to asking the chamber if you want to deal with it as the bill. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, let's vote. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 44 votes in favour, 82 against – corresponding to 63 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – and 8 abstentions. [[Decree-Law 37/2020 of 3 November on strengthening the protection of the right to housing before the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[203-00061/12]] Let us now proceed to vote on the fifth point, which is the vote on the validation of Decree No. 37/2020 of 3 November of strengthening the protection of the right to housing before the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 77 votes in favour – corresponding to 58 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, 4 against, 53 abstentions. I have to ask the chamber, if any group... yeah? [[Pause.]] So, let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 61 votes in favour, 65 against– corresponding to 46 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics–, 8 abstentions. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 25/2010, of 29 July, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and the family (continuation)]] [[202-00028/12]] And let's now proceed to the vote on the sixth point, which is the vote on the Law Amendment Bill 25/2010, of July 29, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and the family. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] He forgave – he forgave. [[Pause.]] Excuse me, yes, I was rushing. We vote in the first place on item 1, presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group and for Junts per Catalunya. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Emen number one. Excuse me. The vote begins. The item was approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. We vote on the issue number 2, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 122 against – corresponding to 103 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, no abstention. And finally, we are voting now on the rest of the text presented in what has not been mentioned. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. There are no more points to vote. Therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock in the morning. Thank you.
