ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.1.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. [[Condol demonstration for the victims of the Covid-19, of encouragement and gratitude to the people who fight for it and of support for those affected by the disease]] I think it is necessary to start this session, in the first place and before anything else, in the name of the chamber, conveying the most heartfelt condolences for the 9,186 people who have left us today, have lost their lives in Catalonia because of Covid-19. We accompany their families and friends in their feelings. I also think I speak in the name of the chamber if I send a message of courage and gratitude to all those who are fighting from the front row to face this health crisis that has struck us alive. I also believe that it is appropriate to encourage and send a support message to people who have given the virus positive, who have been infected, and to move them into a form, a form of hope, which is that of 24,787 people who have already recovered. We're getting all concerned, in this room and out of these walls, about the situation we're living through this crisis. We are still struggling to live, but the message that we want to send to the city today, of course, is that we will get out of this crisis, that we will get out of this crisis and that we will continue to walk forward. Before we go on, just to give this heartfelt tribute to all the people who have left us, I invite them to make a minute of silence. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. Let's start, now, the session. The list of questions to be answered orally to the plenary is included in the dossier, and according to Rule 164 of the Rules will be replaced this morning as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. First of all, I would say to them that for this session they have delegated their ninety-one vote to a deputy and a deputy, and twenty-five deputies and a deputy have joined the telematic vote, and they will vote in person. To issue the vote in a telematic way to the votes of this morning, is to say, at the points of 2 to 8 of the order of the day, the term will end thirty minutes before the votes of this morning; therefore, to a _quarter of three of the late. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] So I inform them, as we always do, and as a compliment to what the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, about the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2020 there are 256 dead and missing victims to the Mediterranean. [[Ask the Government about the problems arising from the public and private double network of sanitation and care for large people.]] [[310-00313/12]] Let's start with the questions to the government. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Carles Riera, and it is about the problems arising from the double network, public and private, of sanitation and care to the great people. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Consellera Vergés. First of all, I received our recognition and thanks, to you and your entire team, for the great effort they are making before this crisis. We also want to congratulate all the health personnel, who are leaving their hair to save the lives of the people of this country. Even so, counsel, we want to tell you that we think that the hard consequences of this crisis do not come only from the coronavirus, but from years and years of detail that your government and your predecessors have done in public services, and especially in public health, with the difficult consequence of placing the population before the disease in a greater vulnerability and putting the health personnel at a much more risky situation. Counselor, you know that we have one of the highest and most worrying infections among health care staff. But if we're talking about the big people, counsel, you know, like everyone else, that the big people are painted in a special way too this crisis. It's not just the coronavirus, it's just because the pandemic finds the residences and services for the great people in a very precarious situation, because these services, unfortunately, have never been a public service, universal and quality for everyone; it's been a trade worked at the hands of ladies like Florentino Pérez, who negotiate with the patience of the great people and families. Counselor, I'll give you an example: Mediona municipalities, governed by Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra and the CUP, with a large people's residence in a particularly precarious and difficult situation. We asked you that the Generality is responsible for this residence, that you are back from public hands. Why didn't they do it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.4.0	Thank you, President. Let's start also, not only by greeting the members of the government and the deputies and the deputies, but also with a very special thanks to all people who are attentive..., not just saving lives, but also caring for people. In the first place, people who work in residences. It's a particularly hard job these days; especially hard, so because this virus affects in a very special way big people, with less ability to react to this virus and to get out. Despite this, there are many great people who also get caught up in the virus, and they get caught up in everything and thanks to the people who take care of it, in residences or also in their homes, and the people who have their own, so they do everything, and they are giving it everything. We, from the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, with the Homrani Councillor, and I myself, from the beginning of this epidemic, gave the guidelines for care of the residents, we prioritized them. We knew that they were the people most vulnerable to this virus, and so we had to do important actions. There's a feeling that this may have been late, because we didn't know the virus, we didn't have all the evidence that we have today, and so we've been putting a lot of intensity into it. We've already intervened in a lot of residences. One hundred and twenty-two are typified as complex, and twenty-five as critical. So, let's go do... all this work I think is naught. Some of us have had to change the management entity, and that is obvious, and we have had to take on other entities, so its direction, precisely because they had a very, very complex and critical situation. This does not mean that he has done it worse than others, but that the virus, too, when it has entered, has done wonders in many; in the Middle Ages and in many others. Therefore, we have people in the inn, so, in the bag – to put it quite clearly – in all this management.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.6.0	Counselor, you may have known, the CUP a few days ago, a few hours ago, we have delivered to all parliamentary groups, as well as that of your government, twelve measures, twelve proposals, twelve urgent measures to rescue life, to achieve a dignified life for everyone in this crisis and in which they will come. And between these measures we do not want to highlight two, he will advise. We propose that all the resources of private sanitation, all of them, go into public hands, advise. It can only be that while public hospitals are overflowing private hospitals have ICUs vacant, they make ERTOS and take personal. It cannot be that diagnostic tests are a reason for speculation and negotiation. It cannot be that you are doing business with biomedical research for cows and drugs to fight the coronavirus. It cannot be that private hospitals are lucrin with public money for people who have experienced this health crisis. Therefore, she would advise, that all health and pharmacological resources should be put into the hands of public health. And, if we're talking about residences, to save the great people from laying private residences...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.7.0	Congressman, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.8.0	...also in public hands.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.9.0	... your time is up. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.10.0	Congressman, we did it. On March 12th we contacted all the private centres to strengthen this public network we have; on March 18th we already made the resolution because absolutely all the private centres in our country, therefore, passed under public umbrella and under public coordination; they cannot do private activity. Private health centres and establishments, which had a lot of accidents at work, made available their material and human media, clinical analysis laboratories and absolutely everything...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.11.0	Thank you, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.12.0	...with integration into the Catalan Health Service.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.13.0	The next question is about the health situation. [[Ask the Government about the health situation]] [[310-00314/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.14.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs, MPs and Councillors. A few first words to honor all the Catalans who have died victims of this terrible epidemic; from escalf to the entrances, to the malalts..., many families hit. Thanks to the health professionals for their work, and to all those who are also making it possible to live in Catalonia; they are making an immeasurable effort. It seemed before, with the answer, that I forgot that the later question I asked you at the later session of control that there was in this Parliament..., I asked you all your involvement with the residences. There was no merit in predicting what would happen; it was obvious that he should direct all efforts to his protection. We've got your hand. You know, Mr. Torra and Mr. Aragones know, they're witnesses. More extended for our part to get the best possible out of this epidemic. We can spare no effort to protect the citizenry; first, saving lives, and then, saving the economy, guaranteeing social protection and working folded in the joint and solidary construction of a better future. Counselor, do you still think that the assumptions you present today are the best that Catalans can have to overcome the epidemic of coronavirus?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.16.0	Member of Parliament, so I add to your words, but the assumptions that you are carrying today are the assumptions that the Government of Catalonia had prepared for the future of the country. And, obviously, we'll have to make it up to you... you weren't thinking, obviously, because you had this coronavirus crisis; neither here nor to any country in the world. Therefore, we will have to make all the necessary adjustments. It is clear to us that the increase in spending only in the Health Department that is there because of the coronavirus is spectacular. Triplicate beds in intensive care units is not a tiny effort, but the opposite, it's a huge effort. This means that we need, therefore, resources, we need a tool like the assumptions because the Government of the Government of Catalonia can do what it needs to deal with the coronavirus, such as the health, economic and social crisis that it is and will continue to feel for a few months. Therefore, it is essential to be able to carry the assumptions of the Generalitat de Catalunya. From here I encourage all groups, therefore, to do pinya in this – to do pinya in this – because we will only get out if we really have the necessary tools to be able to get out. We are a public administration, we are managing public money, money from the citizenry, and we need our professionals, our centers and, obviously, all the citizens of Catalonia, which is sick today of Covid and which is not, and which also has strong emotional implications in this crisis, and which will have a difficult crisis after, as a result of the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.18.0	He will advise, precisely because of what you argued, these assumptions that you present do not serve Catalonia. What a reality bany to real Catalonia! Because they're dropping some presuppositions of urgency that nobody leaves behind; that no patient is left out of a hospital, without treatment, by political decisions. A presumption sensitive to the great people is needed. That you swallow of the assumption questions undoubtedly superfluous; the price of not doing so is to leave Catalans for the path. I don't doubt sending patients to other autonomous communities, if I may; I don't doubt accepting help from who I am. Don't push the undersides to the top or to the express; you should do it to the health system workers. People are aware of the health care system and menystingut. I'd like to address the whole confined pathology: the cancers, the infarcts, the depressions... I didn't forget the 824,000 patients we already had on the waiting list, much more at these times. It's a presupposition with the highest consensus, now more necessary than ever. Do not doubt to ask us to add ourselves to the elaboration of a future presuppositions of emergence, which serve to rebuild with consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.19.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.20.0	...the unit of the health system... (The president withdraws the microphone's use at the clock and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.21.0	Thank you. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.22.0	Member, no patient in our country, no one, stayed at a hospital for political reasons; no one. So, he doesn't get to say it. And that's a brutal effort. In the first place, health professionals; in the second, for whom it is the responsibility of the organizations, and in the last instance, for which it is the responsibility of this Government. I'd just miss it. We've done it, all the more, and we'll keep doing everything and more because no one is left without the attention they deserve. We defend a universal system of salvation, and this – I have always said – means leaving no one behind, leaving no one behind, no one at the head of the hospital or the head of the CAP. And that's the premise that makes us work day by day, hard, from all departments of the Generality. Therefore, let's not give up any help from anyone..., it is to say, everyone rowing and coordinating all administrations, and absolutely with this premise and with this priority of never letting anyone go back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.23.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the situation of large people's residences]] [[310-00320/12]] The next question is about the situation in the residents of the great people. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.24.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Vergés... In the first place, I would like to transfer the recognition of our parliamentary group to all the professionals who are fighting the Covid-19. His department has taken over the residency skills after a disastrous management by the Department of Social Affairs and Families; a transfer of skills that we expect to be temporary and that our parliamentary group was calling for from the beginning of the pandemic and that, under our point of view, it was to be used to medicalize the residences and to move the hardest residents to the hospital. Still, we see that these trajectories are not occurring with the intensity that we consider appropriate. Mrs Vergés, you will tell me that these transfers are under medical criteria, but I would like to know what these medical criteria are and why many families today are complaining that their residents are not being transferred to hospitals to be treated by the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.25.0	To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.26.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, I can't share the first sentence you said. Since then, we have been fully coordinated with the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families for the better management of residences, with the tools we have counted on at every moment. No one expected this crisis. We prioritized from the right beginning these people, who are the great people, we prioritized from the right beginning with an action guide against cases of coronavirus infection to residences, worked together. We have continued to work together with the Department of Social Affairs absolutely always: on March 27, when we signed the resolution of extraordinary measures; then, when the Catalan Health Service, therefore, makes the relevant instructions also for extraordinary measures, to integrate levels, to increase also the capacity to assist in the residents, to coordinate well with the primary care as we would have to help the residents... Because it is true that they are social centers, they are not medical centers, and therefore we are in front of a health crisis that absolutely needed all the reinforcements. And, obviously, then we could go with more intensity, so different tests. We have now assigned persons solely responsible for residences, so they depend on the Directorate-General for Personal Autonomy, which are now in the Health Department, and which is also coordinated with primary and public salvation to make interventions in the residences in which it is needed, because there is not much going on. Then, said this– said this–, all patients who require, therefore, attention to the hospital..., clinical criteria; we cannot say another thing: clinical criteria. And it is true that with clinical criteria, so it looks absolutely everything, and that people must move above all on the basis of the possibilities that they can have and that this is a better for these people, that it is a real better for these people. That's why we've relocated more than seven hundred people to different residences, different spaces. That's why more than 1,800 people went to hospitals, because they had to go. So let's not question the professional criteria and the clinical criteria, because really, if not, it will be very difficult for us. We wanted to leave the hospitals in the first place, so that you would never pass what Mr. Jorge Soler said: that never, never is anyone left out of the treatment you need. And we've tripled these ICUs, tripled the hospital beds. That's naughty.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.28.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the transfer of skills was a decision of your government, not of any other. And also tell him that you have a single objective and have a single objective, in this pandemic, that is to save as many lives as possible and, moreover, to guarantee equal access to the health system. It cannot be that a person who has symptoms who is home has more chances of being cared for at the hospital than a person who has symptoms of residences. Now, thanks to health care efforts, hospital emergencies are not so collapsing and ICUs do not arrive in many cases at the 70_per_cent occupation, such as moving the hardest residents to the hospital. Your shoc plan provides for relocations to other residents depending on the severity of your situation, but it does not talk about transfers to hospitals. Are they breaking up? Yes; but they are insufficient. The residences now concentrate more than 8,800 people confirmed with positive and seven thousand suspicious cases. Your plan is to focus the positive residents on the larger residences, yet without medicalization and without being able to ensure a proper enrollment. Counselor, apply the common sense: make a good coordination between primary care and hospital and transfer the hardest residents to the hospital. And they ask for coordination, because in many cases some of the residents who are transferred to hospitals return to the center, because they are not admitted. Very difficult to hear disparate criteria when residents are now the most worrying focus of infection. It is not just the request of our parliamentary group: the employers in the residential sector, the most representative unions and the family members of the residents have also asked for it. It can't be that many families...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.29.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.30.0	[[...and many residents consider that... (The president removes the use of the microphone at the clock and this continues to speak for a few moments.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.258.0	The next question is about the situation of social services. [[Ask the Government about the situation of social services]] [[310-00315/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.31.0	Good morning, everyone. From Ciutadans we have been warning for years of the fatal consequences, now more visible than ever, of the lack of updating of the Social Services Portfolio, which has led to the social and economic helplessness of the elderly, residences and families in vulnerable situations. Counselor, you know that the current situation in residences is due to the fact that we have a portfolio of social services designed in 2006, and I hope you are also aware that the budgets that bring us to vote do not serve either to strengthen social services, or to support families, or all those groups that were already very vulnerable before the Covid appeared. Counsellor, how are you going to cope with the tremendous social crisis that is coming upon us in the coming months with the crumbs that you have allocated in your budgets to social protection?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.32.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word to the Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.33.0	Thank you, President. President, Councilwoman, Members and Members, I think I should start by placing the complexity, the tough situation that we are living in this country, which is living all over the world. And I think it's important to put him in this environment. And especially solidarity with anyone who has lost his life and with his family, friends, because it is a very difficult situation, that is living in Catalonia, that is living in the Spanish State, that is living throughout Europe and that is living all over the world. And I think it's important, from this honesty, to place this great challenge. From here, how are they working on the Catalan social service system? Therefore prioritizing the most vulnerable people; prioritizing the most vulnerable people at a very complex time, prioritizing the most vulnerable people to give response at the time of the crisis, because we are now managing the crisis with a look that we will have to do in post-Covid, because the situation will be very complex at the economic, social, labor level, in this country and in all the countries of the most appropriate environment, and prioritizing the response to people, which is the way in which it is to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.34.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.35.0	Counselor, empty words. It just didn't make any sense. And I think you will have to give an answer to the workers who are currently sinking without sufficient protection in the residences with the appearance of the Covid, and whose job insecurity is the consequence that you in fourteen years have not updated the Social Services Portfolio, which is the one that defines the ratios of professionals in the residences. Give an answer to those workers of residences who have to take care of themselves of thirty..., a person has to take care of thirty people, and who arrive at fifty years old with the ground bodies, with pathologies derived from the labor overload, product of the harsh working conditions that you impose on them with your Social Service Portfolio. Is that decent working conditions? Are you really proud of the outcome of your management in terms of caring for the elderly? Also explain to the directors of the residences that go to that SOC stock exchange to look for workers and it turns out that they have not done the PCR that requires them the public health protocol. Explain to the elderly of the day centres who have stopped receiving the service and have seen above how their advice has taken away from them the provision of help for the dependency in the midst of the crisis of the Covid. Please also explain this to families who do not have to fill the refrigerator and why you continue to cling to expired budgets. And explain to them why they refuse to give an answer to the reality that we will find when the confinement is over. And explain to them why they refuse to gather enough budget from other departments to redirect to those families that are already exhausting all their security networks. And explain to them when they will update the entire Social Services Portfolio and whether it will cover all the needs of those families that have been helpless for many years now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.36.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.37.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I'll keep it all. I think that yesterday..., "I think, no: yesterday a report from the WHO published that places the situation in the residential area across Europe – across Europe. We will have to think a lot about the residential environment, it is clear; but I believe that the WHO report of today places the difficulty in Catalonia, in the Spanish State, in France, in the United Kingdom, in Belgium, in Italy. The reality is that. And I think that the worst thing we can do is make a big deal at these times, is to put in place some aspects that are claus: which way we have to rethink..., which way..., which way..., you have not felt a system of dependence, of personal autonomy, which has never been completed; which way we have to rethink the system; which way all governments will have to face a very complex situation. All, all governments. We can hear that you're all saturated, that you haven't collected the benefits of the event, because we understand that the system wasn't prepared for an entrance of 3_million people, but we work co-responsibly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.38.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.39.0	...and cooperatively... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.40.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the changes raised in the model of residences and dependency care]] [[310-00318/12]] The next question is about the changes raised in the model of residences and dependency care. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.41.0	Thank you, President. Obviously, start on behalf of my parliamentary group giving the condol for the people who have died for the Covid. And a thank you to everyone who's making it easy for us to keep this confinement from their work places. The head of government was prepared for this crisis, counselor, it's obvious. It's complex, the situation that's gone wrong, and so are the residents. But the feeling is that we lost a_me, it's that the prevention and approach of the Covid-19's impact on the residents was late and went badly. Luckily, as soon as I was late, they understood as the government that it was a health emergency and that it was so important that it was Greeting that took over the kingdoms of this situation. But wherever you've been, you're losing a month. Because the residences were clear that it was a land subscribed to suffer a very heavy impact of this virus, not only because all of its population is at maximum risk, but because we had especially weakened, retaliated and mercantile services here. You serve that have suffered the details of the governments of the People's Party to the State in dependency policies; the details of the convergent governments in Catalonia, and the non-reversion of these details during the last five years that has already been managed by the Republican Left. You have been the ones who have kept the rates to the residences frozen for these five years and who have reduced the money to zero to build public residences. This is one of the services to the most commercialized people we have, with which it involves quality reduction and precariousness of working conditions. And so are they. It was a very weak trunk for a virus like this, and unfortunately, the people who reside there, the families and the women who work there have had a hard time. Now we can't fail them in not taking lessons; we can't repeat errors again. So, counselor, are you working to change the model of our care system to large and dependent people? What proposals, what immediate changes are being made?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.42.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word, the advisor of Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.43.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, we can share even a few views: that it has always been considered the social and social sphere the small brother of the welfare state; that it has not been prioritized the way in which it should have been prioritized. But we also have to place the realities last year, 1,500_million investment in the system of dependence of this country, of which 172 come from the State, with a law that had quantified 50-50. I think we all need to reflect on this. And that was last year; not with a government of the People's Party in Madrid. And I think we all have to do this thinking. From here, I also say that with all the difficulties, with all the mistakes that all governments may have made..., which I don't say, what I think I can't accept is a _month of paralysis, because it hasn't been given this month of paralysis. Because, if you compare the decisions taken by the Government of the Generality with other governments, all the instructions, all the decisions taken were a half a week before: from avoiding visits, banning visits, from banning our entries to aspects where all the other territories made the decision a week later. And I think it's important to situate it. From here, there have been problems, it is clear. And one of the keys, the EPIs; and then we all reflect on whether we made good decisions about the principles around EPIs, with centralization and the loss of two days. But from here on out is rowing, working together, looking for... And it's up to you to give a deep reflection on the palar palar of the residential system in this country. That's exactly what I agree with.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.44.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, you have the deputy word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.45.0	I make concrete proposals to him, counselor, to look forward. Maintaining health care for large people living in the hands of primary care, does not return them to outsourcing with private providers. Further increase the game that we have already increased in the agreement of assumptions of 47_million euros more for the tariffs to this sector. They make an assessment of the viability of the most affected residents, and, like at least those who have had to intervene, they have remained in public hands. Start and bring to Parliament immediately a social concert law to demerchantize this sector. And strengthen the investment in home care services.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.46.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.47.0	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. First round of health care. If you read the Interdepartmental Social Health Plan, which we presented the disembarkation, there is this proposal, it is situated. It's about the work we've been doing at the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families and the Department of Health together. Around the rates, also remember: the past year was increased by 5.85_per_cent the rates in grade II, this government, with an extended assumption, and we will continue to work there. Third element, third key element: they know that we are working in the concertation process, but we have to go further. Pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale pale
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.48.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.49.0	...each time more public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.50.0	...counselor. [[Ask the Government about the criteria followed in relation to communication policy during the Covid-19 health crisis]] [[310-00321/12]] The next question is about the criteria followed in relation to communication policy during the Covid-19 health crisis. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Esperanza García. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.51.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. What changes are you going to make in the communication policy due to this crisis of the Government of the Generalitat?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.52.0	To answer the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If I can repeat the question... I won't tell her the time, but the counselor says she couldn't hear him, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.53.0	Good morning, Counselor. Which changes will the Government introduce in the communication policy of the coronavirus crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.54.0	Now, she'll advise, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.55.0	Thank you, President. First of all, join me in showing sympathy and respect that this chamber has shown this morning with the minute of silence, and also my support to all the people who are working on the front line to put up with the effects of this disease. MP, look, I'll tell you that the communication criteria of the Government of Catalonia are based on truthfulness, clarity and transparency. And, therefore, we understand that we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.56.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word. [[Pause.]] Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.57.0	Let's see, Mrs Budó, you have been spreading a supposed confinement that you had agreed before the event, when it remains in the memory of many Catalans how Mr Torra referred to the coronavirus as "the epidemic of fear without any kind of scientific sustenance; when you also remind Mrs Vergés to encourage children to go to school without any kind of risk; when you remind half-government in the act of Perpinyà, and even when you remember her in your "Nit d'Amigos", just hours before the state of alarm was decreed. The Government has made many mistakes in communication and in managing this crisis, and that is why I was asking him about the change. Because you, in the end, with those mistakes have turned the citizens into your main victims. In Catalonia there are nearly 1,405,000 minors who with their families are waiting to know how they have to go for a walk in this phase of confinement. You have laid down rules which completely contradict those laid down by the Government of Spain, which is the only one empowered by the state of alarm with regard to these exits. They have set time slots, extended it to more than fourteen years and established the obligation to wear masks. To top it off, one of its leaders has told the families, has encouraged them to do only what the Generalitat says, that they will not be fined, and, if not, that the UME comes and stops the parents. This does require clear changes. Look, in crises, governments are portraying themselves. You can take the path of replacing the affronts with responsibility, with certainties; you can abandon the ex-abrupt; you can demonstrate capacity, leadership and determination; in the face of mistakes, a little humility, rectification and institutional collaboration. This virus will accompany us time; so said the WHO head. But in the face of pain, in the face of the uncertainty of the citizenry, this government owes it respect, it owes it empathy, it owes it work from the truth, that they are not doing it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.58.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.59.0	...and must convey confidence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.60.0	...speaker. To answer again, you have the word the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.61.0	Thank you. Look, Congresswoman, let me tell you that for a lot of people who want to intoxicate and who want to embolise the exchange with all that about the state of alarm and confinement, so it's a false report. The reality is coughing and I'll explain it in a very simple way. Look, with the first state of alarm that was decreed by the Spanish state on March 14, and that lasted fifteen days, was the total confinement decreed? No, no, During all these fifteen days of the state of alarm, was the government of Catalonia asking the state for total confinement? Yeah. March 13th and March 17th, by letter. With total confinement, would we be able to lower the spread name of this disease? Yeah. This is shown to all countries that have moved forward and have done so. And, look, and in this sense, from the Government of Catalonia we think that communication is very important in order to reach the citizenry, because they can understand three things, and so we have done from the Government of Catalonia: what is the current situation, what do the authorities do with respect and what can and what citizenship has to do on a personal level. Therefore, we, as the government, consider that in our communication policy they will find sincerity, they will find transparency, but they will also find criticism, because criticism must also be, criticism of the Government of the Spanish State, and also, when appropriate, self-criticism. And here they'll find us too. And to finish, look, I'll tell you that you can be calm with the communication of the Government of Catalonia. We will continue with these premises of truthfulness, transparency and clarity. And what we're very clear about is that they won't find any uniforms in the communications with us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.62.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the decontainment process]] [[310-00322/12]] The next question is about the decontainment process. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Eduard Pujol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.63.0	Councilwoman Budó, ladies and gentlemen, the government must manage a situation that Jules Verne would not even have imagined. Verne said that the man would go to the Moon, but in change, he would never have imagined the attack of an unknown and lethal virus that has caused thousands of deaths. From Juntas per Catalunya, from the outset, we expressed our thanks to all the professionals who had been there and expressed our condolences to the friends and family of all the victims of the Covid-19. We give ours his patience and the emptiness that causes the absence. Counselor, we are in a change of age, as was the arrival of steam or the first great war, and this multiplies by and by questions. We are here to give answers, and we will have to sort out whether we are nostalgic of a collapsing world or whether we are impulses and protagonists of a new, technological and just world. We need to build a just, sustainable and balanced society. With the change of era things change forever, and only societies, governments, and countries that are fast at the time to replace with certainty what is no longer needed, because – remember – the world is moving ideas. Once you pass the time to plant face to face the virus, and before you enter full in the phase of building, there will be the decontainment, which will be done well. And this is where we get to the end of the road. The State cannot manage the decontainment as it did with the confinement. Let's play catch-up, which took longer than the account to recover normality. So far the Government of Catalonia has led the debates that have been generated. Thanks to President Tora for making radically necessary and complicated decisions, but now it's time to break down. We ask you that the Generalitat keep the leadership at this stage; the country has played too much to raise the voice when it touches. I insist, the decontainment is going to be fine; we will be fine. You think we're a country that suffers and we play a lot of games on what it's gonna do. What will be, counsel, the attitude of the Government of Catalonia before this stage? Counselor, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.64.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word now the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.65.0	Thank you, President. Miri, thinking about the disconnection makes us think about the positive and, in fact, makes us think that there is less left to get out of this health crisis, but that it will be economic and social and that it has come to stay a good season. And if we can talk about decontainment now, too, it's thanks to the effort and thanks to the sacrifices that the people of this country have been making for many weeks now. And, indeed, from the government we understand that we have to face this disconnection with some skills that have been removed from us when this state of alarm was decreed. And, therefore, we have also done so critically with the decisions taken during the Spanish state's confinement. But now, in these moments, and in order to face decontainment, let us again offer, the Government of Catalonia, to the Spanish Government, the collaboration to work pleas, in a loyal way, to fight against this pandemic. But we ask that it be heard and that decisions not be made. We ask for collaboration, and no imposition or uniformity. As I said, this is a health, economic and social crisis and, therefore, we need to give a cross-cutting response as to governance. He's been that way at the containment stage, and he's going to be that way at the decontainment stage. And, therefore, the product texture, we understand that it will also be a key element in this disconnection. Ensuring business continuity, we understand that this is one of the first social policies that we need to drive governments. In fact, these last few weeks we have seen how many companies have adapted and converted into specific projects to cope with the situation caused by the Covid. And this ability to adapt is key to the strategy of economic and social recovery, which must also be part of this strategy of decontainment. Well, therefore, we insist on the need to accompany the enterprises of the country making compatible a safe and, at the same time, aging for the economic revival of our country. We believe that it must be deepened in the actions planned and adapted to a small and medium-sized company that needs liquidity to survive. This crisis is not to be paid by the workers, the workers, the families, the entrepreneurs or the entrepreneurs. It is the public authorities that have the responsibility, at this difficult moment, to put all the resources available and necessary to recover a new normality as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.66.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation in the primary sector and the management to deal with the Covid-19]] [[310-00316/12]] The next question is about the situation of the primary sector and the management to deal with the Covid-19. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.67.0	Thank you very much, President. From now on, on behalf of the Republican Group, the scalp to the affected people, the condolence to the victims of the coronavirus and the recognition to the professionals who are facing this crisis, are fighting and fighting against the coronavirus. Counselor Jordan, I speak on behalf of the Republican Group, but also on behalf of the agricultural spokesman of this group, the company Irene Fornós, who is who in an ordinary ple would ask the question. In the first place we want to do it, we want to make a general thank you to the primary sector, for the great effort that is being made to ensure the supply of food, and to make it in a safe, healthy way, in a form of quality in this crisis. It's proven to be a vital sector. I think it's necessary to put it in value and make this recognition. We also want to evaluate, and very much, the department's task and, in its conjunction, the entire government, in these weeks, to put urgent actions to give response to these more immediate challenges. It will be hot, that is also true, that it continues to work in those areas that are most painted: the plant or ornamental flower, the egg, the cow, the fishing and wine sector, at the time that, counsel, we identify one of the most important folds in its department, plus, it is clear, that it is as we face the fruit campaign, as we face the agricultural campaign, which has just begun, and as we do, because it is possible to develop with the highest normality. That's what we think is a key aspect. In this sense, therefore, counsel, we would like you to explain and detail some of these more immediate measures and the efforts your department is making to give these answers, once I would also like to make another reflection more model, agri-food, and more future. We have seen these weeks the import of the agri-food sector to the country, and we have also seen how we have reinvented ourselves and, even so, how some processes have accelerated, but..., sell more directly or in proximity, to set some example. We could say that the agricultural revolution has already begun and, in any case, that it will come to stay. We believe, therefore, that, despite this crisis, we are also at a time of opportunity, at a time when we are facing the debate about what we want to produce, what we want to eat. And, in this case, my parliamentary group is clear: food sovereignty, healthier, proximity, high quality food, moving towards short circuits and canals, and a new model, a sense of doubt, which will help us fight against depopulation and in favour of territorial balance. With everything, therefore, you will advise, who will be the next actions of your department to face this crisis now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.68.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.69.0	...and also in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.70.0	To answer the words of the Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordan. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.71.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for the question. First of all, allow us to thank the sector, an essential sector, an essential sector, which has worked and which has done so, as you know, in difficult and difficult conditions. In fact, from the department we've done an ingenious job, we've done a thorough job at all levels from the first moment, and above all to face the immediate. And immediately it was nothing more than avoiding the breaking of the food chain, in all its trunks, and also ensuring the supply of food in all the establishments of the country. It is worth saying – and you pointed out – that there are vulnerable, detected, diagnosed sectors: the oví, cabrum, the flower and ornamental plant, the wine sector, the fishing sector... We are working. Actually, it's not easy or it's going to be, but in any case, we're working from the first moment and from the first minute. But we also demand... who do you have responsibilities and competencies for, huh? , to the European Union and the Ministry. Especially these last ones, the ministry, we ask them, please, to fulfill those expectations generated, huh? At this point, it's also very necessary. Above all, it must be rigorous and diligent. And said that, and once it guarantees the functioning of the chain and once it also helps these more vulnerable sectors, so, as you said, now our obsession – let's just hate it this way – is nothing other than the agrarian campaign, the sweet fruit campaign. What we've done is coordinate it from the vicinity, huh? Because we understand that proximity is how it coordinates better. From Lleida, from the Lands of the Jews, we have created a technical commission that, with all the agents involved, from producers to employers, different administrations at all levels, the Government of the country will also bring to the next council executed a code of good practices to face, therefore, this campaign with the best guarantees, and in the end it will end up validating Palau. At all, if I may, all crises come together, and sometimes even opportunities. And now citizenship, so I think we have an opportunity for you to know and, as you say, trust these producers, single producers, unrepeatable producers. It is clear that the policies that have gone wrong since the Republican administration have also been addressed and, with this governance, have been rerouted to this path. The sector has re-adapted, the sector is ready for change. Now, then, it's time for us to get back to the city, so everything these days have been done for us, too, right? And not just now, but every day. That's why I'm taking advantage of this to make a call to opt for socially responsible purchase. Now more than ever, therefore, we prioritize this local product, this proximity product, and we cost our primary sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.72.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the measures taken by the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency in relation to the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[310-00317/12]] The next question is about the measures taken for the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency in relation to the crisis of the Covid-19. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.73.0	Good morning and welcome, Counselor Solé. First of all, thank him for his willingness and ability to take the lead of the department in such extraordinary circumstances. Proof of this unheard moment that we are living is the image today of this hemisphere, which can only be recovered in its first intervention with twenty-one Members. In this period of exceptionality and a difficult health, humanitarian and economic crisis, you have received a department on the march and you have come to the fore to make it clear that the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency is serving the citizenry in all its spheres. It is when it becomes the department of reference for Catalans and Catalans caught in alienation, that they have often had to resort to their department, with fewer skills and fewer resources, but that it has shown that it is open twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week, after having knocked on the door of the famous Spanish ambassadors and had not received an answer. It is when it becomes the department of reference at the time of ensuring transparency and accessibility to information on the pandemic and making open data available to citizens on its health and economic impact, because the government's commitment to transparency does not understand exceptions or states of alarm. What I do understand is that precisely in times of exception is when lights and stencils are warmer. Because I understand that freedom of expression and information must be one of the basic pillars of democracy. And we take advantage of the fact that the 78 and the Spanish state rules define "the criticisms of the government and order them to be minimized to the Civil Guard in order to avoid social extremes, and then the wear and tear of the government". It is also when the Government of the Generality leads the task of hearing the world in these convulsed times and, above all, by rigorously analyzing what the other governments do to deal with the Covid-19; a forward-looking task that may not rain as long as it is very essential. It is essential, above all, because the Spanish State has very questionable decisions at the time of managing the confinement; many of these, from authoritarianism, relating rights and freedoms and relocating the unit under a flag. Unequal at all times. We ask him: if the reference of the city of Catalonia to the world and help Catalonia to hear the world, what happens, is very important, so we ask him what action his department is taking to deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.74.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor d'Acció Exterior, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Solé. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.75.0	Thank you very much, President. President Tora, Members of Parliament, Mrs Caula, allow me, first of all, to pay a special greeting to all the people who are following us from home, both from Catalonia and from the world, and in particular to convey a message of support to those people who are still confined in their countries today and who hope to return to Catalonia and meet with their families. Miri, with reference to the question I have asked, what the Department of Foreign Affairs has asked, which I have been captivating for just five weeks, is the task that would have made any country in the world: a task that has put the person, the people, at the centre of any political management. And we have based our priorities on three main objectives. A first objective has been to support all Catalans and Catalans from the world, accompanying them, informing them, helping them in their return and, when it has not been possible, accompanying them in their confinement in the country where they are found. They must take into account that they have come into contact with us more than a thousand Catalans, who correspond roughly to 2,100 people and who respond to a hundred different countries. And we can say today that three of these four Catalans who have come into contact with us are already home. An objective has been all the study that delegations have done to collect best practices and that we daily place at the hands of the government, from all departments, because from their criteria they can assess whether they can be replicated or implemented here in our country. Specifically, in the case of childhood, a thorough study was carried out and I think it helped to make decisions. Finally, a third objective: this will to open the data, to open these thirteen data sets published today at the transparency portal of the Generality; a work in collaboration with all departments, especially with Salut, Work and Social Affairs, the Department of Territories, also with the Vice-President... And precisely to ensure rigour, to avoid fake news and why a transparency exercise is supposed to give people confidence, give a forecast at the time of making decisions and, above all, an analysis by journalists, professionals or yourselves, parliamentarians. Finally, I ask if external action is essential. For us it is absolutely essential to strengthen external action, to make strong delegations present to the five continents of the world; above all, to strengthen the capacity of influence and that we continue to understand as a reliable, committed, responsible and supportive actor. Therefore, from this department we want to lead the external action of the Government of the Generality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.76.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.77.0	...and we're convinced... (The President removes the use of the microphone from the counselor and this one keeps talking for a while.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.78.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the effects on the education of the closure of the educational centres for the Covid-19]] [[310-00319/12]] The next question is about the effects on the treatment of the educational centers for the Covid-19. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.79.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Counselling, as you know, the education system, after the public health system, is one of the most affected by the consequences of the social and health emergency that we are living, especially from the closure of educational centres, for the effects that it has generated in the context of the educational community. Starting with the teacher, who has had to face, therefore, a new reality and accompany the students, in the measure that they can, with their own media; continuing with the families, who are doing what they can to work, telework, and more to accompany their children at the time of developing the educational tasks at a distance, and especially the student: infants and young people who have lost school as an equalizer element and, moreover, a part of whom we have completely detached from the education system. Counselor, when the only link you have with the school or your tutor is telematic and, therefore, when the right to education is exercised in a virtual way, fighting digital bretxa is essential. And we understand, according to data from the same department, that at these times there are 55,000 families who either do not have access to computer devices or have no connection to the Internet and therefore do not have this right to education guaranteed. You told us that these packages are announced, they will arrive, but today they don't have them yet and we don't have a date when they will arrive, and it's their responsibility to guarantee this right of access. And, therefore, counselor, we want to ask him what is his government's understanding of the effects that this situation is causing in education and what he intends to do to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.80.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.81.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman... well, first of all, I would like to have the word to recognize the very high professionalism, the pocket, the effort and dedication of the faculty at these times, on condition that they are very difficult. We are experiencing a health crisis, an economic crisis, a social crisis, but also a community crisis. And the Education Department feels the most responsible for this community crisis. And in this community crisis, teaching is very important, because it is a crisis that affects families and students. We had, on this scale, a long appearance, with questions and answers to the Education Commission of this chamber, and we talked about that. The answer is complex, because in twenty-four hours we had to shut down 5,492 educational centers, stop teaching 1,600,000 students and bring 130,000 teachers and teachers back into their pocket. The answer has been complex, but I think that, as we said to the Commission, the answers left to the offer to work together with all the parliamentary groups with the department, so that a community emergence can have a common response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.82.0	Thank you, Counselor. The honourable Member has the word for the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.83.0	Yes, counselor, I told him that addressing digital learning is essential, but it is not enough; it also strengthens the education system because we start from a situation of fever: we have an under-funded system, with details that have not been reversed and that have affected the pocket of teachers, and also the quality of education; we also have, we are from the European regions with more school segregation, and we have more than 28_percent of children in poor situations. And, therefore, we understand that there is an urgent package of measures to compensate for these social and educational inequalities that already existed, but that at these times they have become worse and, therefore, that we can begin to recover what we had. Why not recover the 1x1 program, a computer with connection for each student; the six-hour public center; the inclusive school; lower the rates and, therefore, we do not tank more groups or more lines, or the promotion of the zero-three educational stage, much punished, and that at these times will certainly suffer as never before. Counselor, the assumption that they approved today with the commons is insufficient and, moreover, does not lapse. We ask you that in the march of this reconstruction push a reinforcement of the education system that I left behind the details and that, moreover, allows you to face the future challenges of education more equitably. If you're willing to do it, we'll go with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.84.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Counselor, again, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.85.0	Thank you, President. Member, community emergence, responsibility of the Department of Education, and I also want to make a recognizance: these answers that we are doing and what we are doing can't take them away..., we are taking them away thanks to the assemblies, too, because they are the other responsible for this community response. The Department of Education, the assemblies, to which I insist, I thank his dedication also, and the assembly of the chamber are able to give this answer, and it seems to me that they must have already called them because the coming week we have the first meeting of parliamentary groups and the Department of Education to exhaust this line of reconstruction, also, in the education system as in response to the community emergence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.86.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the re-centralization of emergency management]] [[310-00323/12]] And the next question is about the refocusing of the emergence management. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Eduard Pujol. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.87.0	Counselor Buch, ladies and gentlemen, in a few months, deu-n'hi-do: the Government of Catalonia has faced the fire of the Ribera d'Ebre, the temporal Gloria and the explosion of the petrochemicals of Tarragona, and has managed well. Now you're responsible, you're responsible for the Procicate, which is the coordinating body that's standing in front of the coronavirus. Public opinion believes that, as well as the complexity of the health emergency, things have resolved as expected or resolved as expected. And you know why? So because it's been managed, it's been managed from the proximity with the criteria, the look and the behavior of a state. As in the management of the storms of August 2017, when Catalonia can act as a state things are good. President Torra's government has managed the emergence of realism, of truth, however hard it is, and of proximity, and also with this idea of state responsibility. This attitude is head-on with the outdated views of President Sánchez, who likes the military more than the scientists. The Spanish government has played everything to the card of re-centralisation, and as the idea of managing this is a failure. Moncloa finds itself too comfortable in the chaos of a centralized state and insists on this error. And now's not the time, it's not the time for more mistakes, because we can't afford them. Catalonia is not a re-centralized and lost enmig of the chaos of the Government of Spain. If politics is solving problems, which is, let's do it. Collaborate, counsel, yes; collaborate, yes, but subordinate, no. Counselor, from then on building will have to be the top priority. We're going to have to build futures, which President Torra said, because with the end of the day, there won't be much. But a Spanish woman who is obsessed with refocusing doesn't serve us either to stop the coup or to sow futures. We need the return of the skills that are our own, starting with the management of emergencies. Counselor, as head of Interior, how does he value the obsession of the Government of Spain to store behind this state of alarm this centralist and ineffective pulse? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.88.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.89.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Also join the condol shows, and also support all people who are working against this pandemic. There are many efforts that are being made, and therefore the thanksgiving is profound, as we do every day, but you also have from this room the thanksgiving to all those who are working, all of them, for the fight against the pandemic. He explained to you: we have a good model, Catalonia has a good model for managing emergencies, and it's not new, thirty-five years ago we have a good model for managing emergencies. And it's a model that hasn't been compared... there's no other territory in the Spanish State that has a model like ours, there's no one. They're different, but like ours, there's no way. You mentioned the management of the storms of August 17, you also mentioned the time of Glory, and so many experiences, not of this legislature, of many legislatures, that the public emergence system of this country is capable of resolving all the adversities that it finds. And, concretely against the struggle of the Covid-19, the Government of the Generality updated a plan that was approved in 2010; two years ago, that was already thought and worked with a plan against a health pandemic like which we are patenting. The fever of this year 2020 has been updated, and from here they began to make decisions. I remind you, for example, of the reduction of the outages, or even of the whole confinement of a territory that at that time had a singularity, which was to be confined. But from that moment on, the re-centralisation came. They took the right to decide, they took the right to execute the solution or resolutions of the emergence. Therefore, from here we have found rejected decisions, decisions that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has proposed rejected, because at the end of a few days the Government, the Government of the State, approve them, as we have approved them; with some modification, but first there is the rejection. Therefore, we take the decision-making capacity and at the end of a short time accept and, somehow, refocus our proposals for them, from Madrid, approve them and explain them. So... that's what we see every day: we're seeing children, we're seeing confinements, we're seeing everything. Therefore, I can tell you that one of the biggest mistakes made by the Spanish state government today is re-centralisation. This has turned us against, it has prevented us from working with celerity and with the quality of working a country like ours before an emergence. So, they're not making mistakes again, they're letting us decide, they're letting us run the Emergence Plan that this country has. Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.90.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether in an independent Catalonia there would have been fewer deaths for the Covid-19]] [[317-00188/12]] After the questions to the Government, let's go to the questions to the President of the Generality. And the first formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.91.0	Yes, thank you. First of all, I would like to add to the sympathy which has been expressed. And ask Mr. Torra if she shares, like Mrs. Budó, that in an independent Catalonia there would have been fewer deaths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.92.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.93.0	Yeah. Very good morning to everyone. I also, as I always do in any intervention, therefore send my condolences to all those families who have lost an esteemed person, desiring the fastest recovery to anyone who is patting this disease and thanking all the public servants, following the administration that they are, all their work; and today, especially since we are in Parliament, thank the workers and workers of this Parliament, therefore, who are here. You know, president, because I told you, I thought this session could have been done telematically. The Catalonian Execution Council is meeting telematically, the assemblies too, the parliaments too... I think that if the commissions are also meeting telematically, I think that the plenary of Parliament could also do so. It is hard for me to know that in this case the Parliament of Catalonia does not also lead what is to be the future, one of the futures we need to build, which is a democracy where also a ple with all normality, with all the common sense, can be done, therefore, telematically. I will now reply to Mr Fernández; I will reply to him, if it seems to me, once you have finished your presentation, with a series of examples of other people, of German foundations, of German newspapers that can somehow explain which models have worked best in Europe in everything that refers to the management of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.94.0	Thank you, President. To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.95.0	Thank you very much. The essential obligations of a president of the government in a crisis like the current one are, first, to correct with the measures – that we will talk about later, we will debate in the debate of the decrees – and, secondly, to generate trust and unity in society. It is impossible to generate unity and trust in Catalan society when you have replaced the indecent« Spain robs us of the immoral« Spain kills us, and all this by rejecting its own responsibilities. Has anyone in Madrid imposed on you the chaos in the homes of elders that you have caused yourself? Or send a circular asking for a lower - intensity treatment for those over eighty years of age? No one. Managing from identity bias is always extraordinarily harmful to any society. You first rejected the army for jobs that are doing all the exercises in our surrounding democracies. Within fifteen days they passed from "we don't need them, please go to" come; help us, that we don't arrive. They were fifteen days lost, fifteen days lost that in circumstances like this are absolutely dramatic. Are they not able to park their identity obsessions or be one day, one day? Are they even able to come to the point that 1,714,000 masks are an insult to Catalonia's identity? Don't you realize that's not normal? But it's not that it's not normal from a political point of view: it's not normal from a psychiatric point of view, I'd say. In short, Mr. Torra, I know that at this point it is practically preaching in the desert, but you are wasting the opportunity to unite and generate trust. He is even missing the opportunity to redeem himself before that half of the Catalans that we have been systematically insulted over the past two years by his statements. We would be willing to park that feeling, I the first, if throughout this crisis we had felt protected, represented and cared for by you. Think about it, because there's no way, it seems there's no way. And think about it, I'm telling you, because this is going to take a long time. It will be very hard what comes now, and we will not be able to overcome what is divided and with declarations that break the unity between all Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.96.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.97.0	Miri, let's learn, not one – not one. Not one, really, not one. Let's learn, not one, because I've spent all this time... ever since the pandemic started, saving lives, being at the side of people, of people's salvation. I had no other priority, no other priority, for all the citizens of Catalonia – for all the citizens of Catalonia – I had no priority. And I want to answer your question. Miri, the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, which is earlier a conservative foundation, as you know, did an analysis of how epidemics were best managed. So it turns out that the large countries that have managed the epidemic in a decentralized way – German versus French cases – were the countries that had made it the best. And he also emphasized the following: that the small countries had also had the ability to be more skilled, more agile, faster, etcetera. So I'm not saying that. Read Le Monde's editorial of the other day, which spoke exactly of the same. Le Monde was just explaining the French case with respect to the German case. I believe that without impositions, with dialogue, with cooperation, all this has been much better. But we haven't found anything on the part of the Spanish State. One day for the other, our competitions were abolished. Never before have we rejected any of the reports we have submitted from the Spanish State. We ask for cooperation – cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.98.0	Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether there will be a radical turn in government policy and the assumptions to put life ahead of capital and the reasons for statehood.]] [[317-00183/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Carles Riera. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.99.0	Good morning, President. First of all, also show you our gratitude and recognition for the effort you and your government are making before this crisis. We want to extend it to all public servers and servers, and, of course, our support and solidarity to all people who suffer or have suffered from Covid-19. I must also say to him, President, that we are very much at odds with the political decisions your Government has taken. Miri, President, we have not seen any act of sovereignty before the re-centralisation of the State. We have not seen any acts of sovereignty before the presence of the army in our territories. We have not seen the excess of security, especially in front of precarious or migrating people. We have not seen a real protection of workers and workers; companies with huge benefits that make ERTOS, and they can also be supported by public administrations. We have not seen a real protection of the autonomes and autonomes. Glovo's workers and workers, overexploited before the government's liabilities. And neither, President, have we seen a firm attitude to put all the country's resources in public hands and so we can fight hard before this pandemic. President, capital or life. We know perfectly well that the outcome of this crisis will be socialist, ecological and feminist, or not. President, for when is a radical turn of your government and of your assumptions to put life on the side of capital and on the side of the raons d'état?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.100.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.101.0	Yes, thank you. Thank you, honourable Member, for the first words. About the rest, allow me to disagree, because I've seen other things. I have seen a government that, out of responsibility to its citizens, has been explaining it at every moment in what situation it was in. I have seen a government in which we have explained and I think we have advanced to the events that can come, and always proposed constructive measures, always. I have seen a government that has prioritized the life and salvation of people, before any other consideration; from any other consideration, I can assure you that I have seen a government that wanted to do all things at the same time as possible and as drasticly as possible and, therefore, that it is a total confinement, except essential services, that it is as reliable as possible to the workers with a universal basic income and that it is also reliable, for our entrepreneurs and for our businesses, to ensure that their reactivation could be possible with the total suspension of taxes. I have seen a government that, before one day for another realizes that it loses its skills in safety or in all healthcare management, has done, no more, no more, to ensure personal protection teams to our professionals. You can't imagine how well we've been able to ensure these personal protection teams to our professionals, hospitals, social-health entities. Someday it will have to be explained how the Government of Catalonia, going out into the world, was able to obtain materials that seemed incredible. I've seen all this, and I've also seen the immense solidarity of the people, whom I must thank very much. Because there is a B face of this terrible tragedy: it is the face of solidarity, of so many people who have come to do things, of so many businesses that have come to work. I was able to watch the birth of the famous breathers and follow their projects. I have come into contact with the voluntary sectors to see how they were managing the crisis and the concern that I have, enormously, that this economic, social crisis does not end up in a humane crisis, if we do not do everything we have to do. I've seen a government in action. I have heard that the citizenry sees, in all our advisors and advisors, as we have faced with the whole truth and with all realism, not only imagining things, but explaining where we were at every moment... I have seen this part too, and I think I need to be allowed to claim this part. And then, if you want, let's comment on your twelve points, which seemed to me to be a very interesting proposition...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.102.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, you've got a new tower to answer that question. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.103.0	Miri, President, what we see is that you, like the Spanish Government, have pieces, measures of economic and social nature in the heart of neoliberalism, which we already know have failed in the face of the 2008 crisis. And so we have found the public services and the situation of the productive economy and the rights of workers: in an absolutely vulnerable and precarious situation before the crisis. And, indeed, President, we have made it to you, to all the groups of Parliament, also those who give support to the Government, a follow-up of measures to save life, because everyone has a decent life, because everyone can arrive at the end of this month in this crisis and in which they will come, with the right to housing guaranteed, with the right to resources and the basic services guaranteed, to rescue life, and a decent life for everyone. Mirin, we have two proposals on the table. We will immediately propose a reform of the Law of guaranteed citizenship income so that it is converted into a universal basic income, an income for everyone, because everyone can have a dignified life, over the interests of capital. And, President, you have the opportunity to give support to the CUP's move to its assumption that it proposes 500_millions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.104.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.105.0	...to stop paying the bank... (The president withdraws the microphone's use at the timer and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.106.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether the Government has done well in managing the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[317-00186/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.107.0	Yes, thank you, President. And before I begin I would like to send my condolences to all the people who have lost their esteem these days and wish that who is infected and fighting against the virus now itself will recover as soon as possible. That said, President, we would certainly like to know if you consider that your government has done well in managing this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.108.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.109.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I think that in a crisis that has overcome any prediction, it would seem hard for any ruler to say that he has done all right, huh? Neither the Government of Catalonia has done well, nor the Government of Spain has done well, nor has the Government of France done well... And we have recognized it, more so – we have recognized it –, perhaps..., I would claim that this exercise of humiliation also fess in other governments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.110.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.111.0	Yes; I believe that the humiliation that you have just demonstrated is not the one that is reflected in the Government of the Generality's press rounds, days, that we can see in the communication media. And, obviously, I also share that all governments could have done better, I'm not absolutely convinced. Because we are in a situation of enormous complexity, but you will understand that the words of the government spokesman saying that in an independent Catalonia there would be fewer deaths and fewer infected people or the words, if I may, ridiculous from the Interior Councilor about the name of masks coming from the central government, so do not help to recognize this humility that everyone could do better. As I said, it is a situation of enormous complexity and requires politics in capitals; politics that is demonstrating citizenship, as long as it is at home, as it is pulling forward the country, as it is saving our lives, and now the institutions must be on the rise. And this is what they recognize is that they learn before every scene and transmit trust and serenity. We will have time to assess how each of the administrations has managed it, also here; obviously from the central government, but also here: see what has happened to the residences or divisions between the councils according to the political colour, because there are them. But now it's time to prepare ourselves for the future, and that's done with a scoc plan – that we'll have a good tool today, with the approval of the assumptions, to follow a good scoc plan – and also with an agreement for life, to change the model. And I'm saying, changing the model isn't about being the champions in private sanitation funding. Certainly, private sanitation from within the Siscat and outside the Siscat, because the rates are identical, and it has not felt that we pay 43,000 euros per derived patient, while Navarra, which has private sanitation of the most dearest in the State, is not paying 24,000. Changing the model is shielding public services, it's demerchantizing, for example, residences, it's taking from the speculation of the markets all the basic goods, it's making an economic transition or it's relocating the industry, president. And to do all these things you need alliances. And I have the feeling that many times his words are not around alliances, but that what they are doing is breaking bridges. And as I'm left with two seconds, and out of the question, I have to recognize them, I have to confess that I'm happy to care for you and that we're all fine. Until now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.112.0	Thank you, Congresswoman; likewise. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.113.0	Yes; I'm also very happy that we can see each other. And I didn't come to this session today to make a toilet for anyone, on the contrary, and less for you. Menys to you, because precisely to you I would like to ask for help, because you govern the Spanish State, you are responsible for the decisions you make or do not take the Spanish State. And, therefore, I would like to ask you to exercise this influence, to listen, to make the Spanish Government listen to the decisions made by the Government of Catalonia. Because, when we propose total confinement except for essential services fifteen days before the Spanish government approved it, I think you should have been on the side of the Catalonian government and forced the Spanish government to do so. I think that when we proposed guaranteed income for the workers – and we're already wearing one and a half months' worth of money – we should have given this support to the Spanish government from the very first moment. I think that when we asked for the quotas to be suspended, you should have helped us, too, wouldn't you? Please, let the voice of Catalonia be heard. And now they have a great opportunity, now they have a great opportunity. In the containment process it has not been possible, not 'nsha escorted. Never translated into technical or scientific information, never, not one – not one. I don't know, maybe you have them, we don't. But now there's a great opportunity, in decontainment. Let Catalonia manage the decontainment of Catalonia, let us. Your government in Madrid, your government in Spain. I ask him for this help: they make the Spanish government accept that Catalonia has competence, has experience, has knowledge to be able to decontain Catalonia. And I hope to count on your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.114.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the convening of political forces to promote a pact for reconstruction]] [[317-00187/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.115.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President of the Generalitat, it is time to remember the victims, to convey our condolences to the families and friends, to give to those who are fighting at these times against the disease and to those who are helping and caring for them in the first line: the health personnel of the residents, of the emergencies and of the health transport. It is also time to express the support for the people who work to maintain essential services, to ensure the food chain and sub-administrations, and those who gradually became part of economic activity. But our homage and our recognition must not be abstract, but they are concrete in willingness to collaborate in the fight against the coronavirus and for the social and economic reconstruction of the country. Now it's not time to try to make political profit from the tragedy. Neither Spain is still dead, nor with independence there would be fewer victims; there is not enough to remember the many victims of independent countries routing the world. Now what it takes is to add effort, to work folds with the eyes laid in the social and economic reconstruction of the country. That is why, President, I ask him if he intends to summon political forces to promote a Catalan pact for reconstruction. And I can tell you that in this effort you will be able to count on the support of our parliamentary group and concrete proposals to give it content.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.116.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.117.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. Actually, I don't just think I'm calling all the political parties, because I don't think we'd have enough just to listen to ourselves, even though we represent the vote of the citizenry. My cry, like I said, is a cry to all the citizens, to all the talent of Catalonia, to build these futures together. You know, I prefer the word 'building' to'rebuilding'. « Rebuilding means we're going to be the same model? No, no, We need to build futures, futures, and definitely disruptive options. It is that they must be disruptive in accordance with the system that we have now dyed. And that's why we need all the talent of the country: we need political parties; we need economic, social, cultural agents; we need universities, search centers; we need professionals, executioners of businesses..., of course, we need to mobilize all the talent of Catalonia to be able to cope with what this place has to be, in which we sincerely play the future of our own generations of Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.118.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.119.0	Many honourable President, you do not know the joy that gives me your answer and feel it speak of construction, because we believe that neither the assumptions that were approved today, nor the law of measures, nor the decrees that the Government brings today to validate are the ambitious response of the country to the enormous economic and social challenges that we face. And that's why we happily embrace your expression of leadership in this catal pact, if you want, for economic and social construction, the ability to prevent anyone from going back; that economic activity is recovered; that you ensure the highest efficiency of administration and the highest quality of public services; to have a catal basis for reconstruction that comes to businesses, self-employed, workers and families, the ability to ensure equality, reduce territorial imbalances and promote sustainability, driving industry, research and innovation. A pact, effectively, with political forces, with economic and social agents and with the local world. Let's get down to it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.120.0	Thank you, Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.121.0	Hi, lucky and uncertain, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.122.0	President, to respond again, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.123.0	And I'm celebrating it, and all that, but we're gonna need more, we're gonna need tools for the state, so we can do this, huh? We'll need all the tools that we don't have, so we can hold them. And, therefore, I appeal to you, therefore, that this crisis, this terrible crisis, does not pay for it, neither the citizens, nor the businesses, nor the locals, but the state pays for it. The State is all of us, if I may, eh? At this point in time, the State is all, all administrations. It must therefore be the administrations that are paying for this crisis. We have insisted once and for all, we know perfectly well: total confinement except essential services, basic income for the workers, so that we can give maximum confidence to the workers, and suspension of all taxes for the enterprises, for their reactivation. We have well designed phases: a first phase of rescue, a second phase of reactivation and a third phase of setting the country's time. And we have to work on them now, because one will take us to the other. The first phase is that we are now rescuing. The second phase, which will last until the vaccine, is where we start to open a whole series of sectors and where we will be able to see with them, with a very intensive public-private collaboration, as we did. And the third phase, of time; I insist, here is where to build, here is where all the creativity and all the experience and know-how of Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.124.0	Thank you, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.125.0	...and we're all counting on it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.126.0	The next question... [[Asks the President of the Generality about the strengthening of the welfare state to remunerate the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[317-00185/12]] ...the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.127.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. I am glad to be here today, in this different House, taking advantage of all the margin given to us by the Rules and respecting the decision of the Bureau and, therefore, respecting the separation of powers, as we always ask the State, and to do so in order to approve certain assumptions that this country needs so much. I begin by giving thanks to the victims, to the health care workers, to all the essential professionals, who are at home, to those who have been born during these days, to those who suffer for work, for the winemaker and for the future. I'm sure it won't turn out well, because we're a global pandemic, with historical social and economic derivatives; but, as always, we have no choice but to get out of it, and we'll get out of it. And we'll do it by prioritizing life, protecting people and guaranteeing us a new model of society. Looking at a different society and the better it is at our hands, and it will be up to us to lead it with responsibility and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of everyone. Because some have shown these days, and repeatedly, that they only improvise. We can't help but say that the State has become an obstacle again, and we want to be very clear for the day they come: there is no place for improvisation, enough re-centralisation and enough military. We won a tool today, so we'll have some key assumptions in the fight against the Covid. And absurdly, due to the need for some of the protagonists, we will have the assumptions and 3,000_millions more thirty days later. Sad and disappointing. But today, above all, we want to claim the work of a very large number of people who have made it possible to provide this country with more resources, more resources to invest in health, education and employment policies, and therefore to put life at the centre. President, we know that the government also prioritizes the life and welfare of Catalans, and to do so we can only do one thing: strengthen the welfare state, to collectively remunerate the crisis of the Covid, and we want to know how this government poses it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.128.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.129.0	Yes, thank you, Congressman. Indeed, these assumptions, long desired and that in themselves they are all a small history of what has happened during, so, these last few months in Catalonia, what is certain is that they have a _mark that we need, huh? These 3,000_million more euros, this update, it's true that we claimed it and needed it. But, paradoxically, it's also true that the coronavirus effect makes these assumptions, now that we have to prioritize them. That's it. We haven't talked to all the government's economic team: the first job starts to approve these assumptions is already going to be to know how we can prioritize each of the lines, especially taking into account a little, if I may, what I was saying before, isn't it? , the different stages in which we are, and above all prioritising social policies, certainly, but also those sectors that are most affected by this crisis; and I am obviously speaking, therefore, of the tourism sector, of the trade sector, of the third sector, of the cultural sector. And, therefore, we must be able to get ahead of ourselves, with this mark that we have, to be able to pull forward and to prioritise. But, it's more, only with these assumptions we won't get out of it – we won't get out of it –, I told Congressman Iceta before, and we're complaining about it every day. If we have estimated the health cost of this crisis at between 1,800 and 2,000 million euros, it is clear that we need direct transfers from the State and not loans. It is obvious that we need to eliminate the top of the deficit already, these points we claim; it has not yet been done, the State. It is obvious that we need, therefore, that the surplus of the joints we can apply, and still has not approved, the State. We need, I would just miss..., was my endemic complaint: of the fiscal deficit; it is that only one, two points of fiscal deficit, of that 8_percent of the fiscal deficit that Catalonia suffers, we would get out of it. And I don't talk about the usual: the third additional provision, the Mossos, the performance, therefore, dependence... It's what we need, now, to have a state in favor. We need the Spanish government to play in favor. Because if we don't, we won't get out of it, either, just with these assumptions. And, therefore, we need these money transfers to be able to pay the health cost. Those 14,000 million that they announced didn't represent anything...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.130.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the management to build the future of Catalonia]] [[317-00189/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.131.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honorable President Torra, first of all, the deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia want to express our condolences to the relatives who have lost their esteem, to wish a speedy recovery to all people infected and to express our most sincere gratitude to all health workers and to all the joint society that is working at these times, at the very end of the cano, to fight the pandemic. Thank you all very much. We also want to express our support, President, to the Government and to you, who have demonstrated a capacity to lead, to anticipate, to listen, to work with joy, to cooperate with different entities and civil society, to make difficult and necessary decisions to address this crisis. This is about life, this is about people's salvation. And we have demonstrated during this time a state attitude, but that we lacked a way of being. We live in exceptional times, and today is a historic day in Parliament, in which, therefore, many Members do not need to attend, because they can vote in a telematic way. And that is where Parliament must continue to fight for this front and defend democracy. We thank the technicians of the house for their efforts. It's all changed. Everything has changed and the future is now. Many crises have accelerated, many crises have become evident, and now we have new forms of consumption, education, teletreball, administration, advisors who take possession in a telematic way... We cannot be anchored to the 20th century, we have to start thinking about this society before a new paradigm that places us, the crisis of the coronavirus, thinking of coordinates of the 21st century. We have an emergency situation, which is saving people's lives, and all efforts must be focused on the part of the government. There will be an emergency situation, social and economic recovery. But, President, we want to ask him about his position on how to face the country's future. We have to build the country of the debt, connect Catalonia with the vanguard of the 21st century, which, as has always fought political Catalanism, is for a radically democratic, modern society, where there are social and economic, cultural progress, and also keep us in the scientific, technological and digital revolution of the country's conjunct. I believe that he managed it in the face of this crisis demonstrates the imperative need to rethink the Catalonia of the 21st century and how we enter and connect with the reality of our day-to-day life.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.132.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.133.0	Yes, thank you, honourable Member, thank you for your words. Look, the Secretary-General of the United Nations explained a long time ago that they needed to build a more egalitarian, inclusive and sustainable economy. I think it's a good summary of what Catalonia has to pull forward. I insist on the three phases in which we find ourselves. In this first phase of rescue and, therefore, of preparation, it is clear that we must now have this health emergency. That's why we're claiming these direct transfers to cover this cost, because it's an absolutely exceptional situation, which, if not, would be a deep wound already entering our premises. And they already know what the Catalan formula is: worker protection, business reactivation and full support for self-government. We will then enter a phase of reactivation, as the decontainment is vagi produced, and therefore a phase of recovery. And here it is absolutely necessary that in each of the sectors – and I have been with the trade sector, with the tourism sector, with the cultural sector – we come to public private agreements to know how we can help them, as we accompany them, as we prioritize all our actions so that, indeed, this revival is possible. Finally, we will enter the stage of defining the country's time. And this is for me the most important stage of all. And this stage we have to build it in an absolutely disruptive way. So, we can't do what we did again, because we saw that we weren't ready. That's it. And, therefore, solutions are already being sought, I think, such as that health and social health areas, so it is obvious that they must go together. Or digitalization, all the changes that digitalization will entail, in a much more participatory democracy, much more critical with power, of course. We need all the criticism of the world. Let no one pretend that we are not critical of each other or that policies are not critical of each other; for God's sake! And we also need to bear in mind that the things we've done, as we've done so far, so it can't be, it's gonna have to be different. And that can't be done with the government alone, not the whole hemicicle, not that we agree. We need the involvement of all of society, and of the talent of society, of excellence. We have the best professionals, we have the best people to do it. Call them. And this cry we have to make, and we will, and the government the proper days will make concrete what this cry must be to the excellence and talent of the country to stand in the way and to define, together, how we want to build these futures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.134.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the establishment of an autonomous forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia]] [[317-00184/12]] The next and last question asks the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.135.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I want to start, of course, by dedicating words of encouragement and affection to all the people who have lost a loved one in this crisis, and also by thanking those who are being left behind every day for us to win the Covid-19 battle together. We are expected to live up to the circumstances, to jump to save lives first, and jobs later. And for that it is necessary now more than ever that we work with unity and responsibility. We are convinced that the first step is to get to work with emergency budgets that do not ignore the reality of the pandemic, agreed with all political forces, where there is no trace of political disputes, nor of confrontation with the State. But it's just that the situation is so, so serious, that I think we have to take a step further. That is why, from here today, from Citizens, we propose to you the constitution of an autonomous forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia, a forum within Parliament, where the Government and the leaders of the opposition let us put aside our differences and let us work together against the Covid-19. Look, I don't think we can hear what speeches we're hearing right now. I believe that hindering the work of the UME or the Civil Guard, as has happened in Sant Andreu de la Barca, does not save lives; making an appeal to disobedience, like Mr Sabrià, does not save lives; that Mr Buch sees numerical conspiracy does not save lives, and that the spokesman of the Government insinuates that with you in front there would be fewer deaths, neither does he, does he not save lives, Mr Torra. So let's get this straight. If we don't do it now, then when? With these kinds of speeches we're not going anywhere. From here I want to ask you if you are willing to accept our proposal, to leave the political differences aside, to leave the attacks on the State and to put ourselves to work together, hand in hand, in that forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.137.0	Yes, thank you, Congresswoman. In the first place, I also wish that Mr. Carrizosa, therefore, has recovered and, therefore, makes him reach my record. Look, I'm gonna stay independent and you're not. We were before the coronavirus, and then too. But I really appreciate it today, I appreciate it. And I think we need to go to an inclusive response, actually, where we're all listening, because, honestly, we want to hear it together, we want to listen to everyone, we want all the talent in the country to participate in it... I, from this forum that you have just proposed, if you will, speak of it; it seems to me that it is obvious that in Parliament we will have to be able to reach these great agreements. But I'm making a call, if I may, a little bit more there. I don't think we'd have enough, either. So as I recognize that the government doesn't have enough, I don't think the parliament has enough. We have people with great abilities, with great talent in the country. It's time to take advantage of them, it's time to really open up to the whole society, to all those professionals who are at universities, working at companies, in the cultural sector, in the third sector. We listen to everyone, because it will depend on the decisions we make now, I insist, that there is the future of the country. I'm counting on everyone, and I'm glad you're here, so you're doing this petition, and, above all, what you've been working on so far.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.138.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, you've got a second turn when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.139.0	Yes, thank you. I also celebrate those words that you say to me, although I don't really like what we see next on the other side. You, for example, said the other day that if you go to those pacts for reconstruction in Congress it will be simply to talk about self-determination. Mrs Borràs also said that a few days ago. You have also taken a lot of haste to say that you want to resume that table that you call dialogue, but that is actually just the place to go to strain the rope with your nationalist obsession. I want you to understand that you can no longer bear it, that now our obsession and that of society as a whole is another. It consists only of saving lives and helping those [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] more punished by the crisis. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.140.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.141.0	...we sit together in that autonomous forum, Mr. Torra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.142.0	President, you have a second turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.143.0	Finally, we were better off with the first part than in this second part, but I would like to reiterate what I have tried to do during all these interventions. I count on everyone in this country, with everyone, because this management of the coronavirus – and if I may, it might have been questioned at some point, but before – the Government of Catalonia has always been a management for everyone, throughout the country. If we have had a priority during these days, it is the salvation and life of the people. It's just that we've put it in front of anything. I think that, as a minimum, if I may, it should be recognized, at least in the position that the Government has maintained from the very first moment on, salvation and life. I said: "Let us focus on salvation and life, this is the first. Now, I insist, just as you will think that the best solution after that is Romanesque in Spain, so we continue to think that the solution is the independence of Catalonia. That's why we're independent, because we think we can...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.144.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.145.0	...give this country more opportunities if we're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.146.0	Thank you. [[Decrees Law 4/2020, of March 10, establishing a transitional regime for the granting of compensation and aid for women victims of male violence, provided for in Decree 80/2015, of May 26, and 9/2020, of March 24, regulating institutional participation, permanent social dialogue and social concertation of the most representative trade union and business organisations in Catalonia]] [[203-00029/12 and 203-00034/12]] At the end of the control session we shall proceed to the next item on the agenda, which, in this case, is the debate and subsequent vote on items 2 and 7 of the agenda, which, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, will be consolidated in a single debate. They relate to the validation of Decree Law 4/2020 of 10 March, for which a transitional rule is established for the granting of compensation and aid for women victims of male violence provided for in Decree 80/2015 of 26 May, and the validation of Decree Law 9/2020 of 24 March, for which the institutional participation, the permanent social dialogue and the social concertation of the trade union and business organizations most representative of Catalonia is regulated. The record, as I said to the principle, that the vote on the validation of all the decrees will be done at the end, after all the debates, and the telematic vote will be closed half an hour before these votes, that is, a quarter of three in the afternoon. To present and defend the validation of the two decrees has the word of conseiller Chakir El Homrani, conseiller de Treball, Afers Socials and Families. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.147.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Vice-President of the Government, Members and Deputies, today I have two decrees laws of urgent measures, two decrees laws that provide two very different spaces, that provide a situation that shows how the work of the Government is continuous, that fall at a very complex time, but that at the same time they must accompany this moment, even though they are pre-prepared. I think it's a very clear example of how in times of exceptionality we're living measures for exceptionality, but it can also continue to move forward, and continue to move forward in aspects that will also be key to addressing post-Covid, to addressing situations of great complexity, of very hardness that we're living in this country, and all over the world, in these last few months. Mirin, these two decrees are: on the one hand, the Decree Law 4/2020 of 10 March, for which a transitional rule is established for the granting of compensation and aid for women victims of male violence, provided for in Decree 80/2015 of 26 May, and, on the other hand, Decree Law 9/2020 of 24 March, for which institutional participation, permanent social dialogue and social concertation are regulated with the most representative trade union and business organisations in Catalonia. And it seems lied, because if we start with the first of these decrees, which is the first one I will defend, it finds that at this time when the concern was also linked to male violence, where the situation of confinement is making us and is forcing us to keep the active services adapted to this situation, because, unfortunately – and it is one of those areas that makes us as a society-, the situations of male violence have not stopped with confinement. And even more, situations of violence can be increased by being confined to the world, and there are women who have to share confinement with violent men, with men who abuse them, with men who have no decency, and that too we are working; from all spheres: prevention, from specialized services, working around how we can guarantee the rights of women in these absolutely exceptional circumstances of confinement. But it also shows us that we have an opportunity to set up and improve the model of society that we want for the future, also in relation to the role of gender, to structural inequalities by gender, to the relationship between women and men, to the redefinition of the uses of time; in short, to the protection and guarantee of the rights of women. It's also an opportunity to make one of the things that I think all of us, all of us, all of us, share in this little room. And it's also an opportune debate in the circumstances; as I said, male violence doesn't end before the Covid. The exceptional situation where living together is permanent and forced, reduced mobility and no one can favor situations of violence and exacerbate the difficulties of victims to find support in their family, professional environment, while producing fewer possibilities to verbalize, share, ask for information, ask for advice from the services, as well as especially to denounce, of this courageous decision that many survivors make. Very complex, and I think we're all aware. That's why we're still working, and that's why we're carrying this decree. Look, I remember two parographs. I'm sure you'll know where we're coming from. "Women have been essential in the construction and defense of rights and freedoms along history. Despite this, much of our societies have not recognized the historical role of women and have not guaranteed their rights. The Law of the Right of Women to Eradicate Masclist Violence is based on the premise that women's rights are human rights. Male rape is a heavy violation of these rights and an impediment because women can absolve full citizenship, autonomy and freedom. These two paragraphs are from the preamble to Law 5/2008, from the right of women to eradicate male violence. It was a law in its pioneering moment. We just celebrated the two of us years ago. It was a law that implied a point of inflection in the gaze, in the approximation, in the approximation, in the centrality that the policies of genere must hold, the struggle for the whole society to work together. And it's time to move forward: with this decree we take a step further, we're moving forward firmly in the fight against masculinist violence. Compensation, understood as the right to repair, became in this law one of the central nuclei of the right of women. An essential help for them and their daughters and children in the process of recovering the damage suffered, to facilitate them the initiation of a new personal life project. And it is true, Decree 80/2015, of May 26, the one we propose to amend, was dealt with in certain circumstances of presuppositionary restrictions, without having finished knowing what would be the demand for compensation and the help it would generate. And now it's time to make this change. It is of the first aspects I wanted to address as a counselor, to analyze how these compensations were working. Finish all 2019 to see how they worked, and the reality is hard: they are not working; the compensations are not working, nor the government of the Generality has them, nor the government of the State. And it's a reflection that we have to do together. And now I'll explain the reasons we found and why we change the decree, but the reality is very hard when you see the figures. Let's say since 2015 there have been, not up to a hundred compensations. No, it can't be – it can't be. There is a problem of drawing around help, there is a problem of knowledge, there is a problem of bureaucracy, there is a problem linked – and that in this plenary has been discussed many times – to the gaze of the judicial system, to the gaze and to the feelings of the judicial system that do not facilitate the rights of women who have suffered male violence and the rights of the children and girls who have suffered the murder of their seas. And it's up to you to reflect on it. In the face of this difficult situation, what have we done? We've made the parallels. Start the reform of the regulation that regulates these compensations, but at the same time with a very clear awareness that we cannot wait for the regulation to be absolutely reformed, that we need to be able to give the answer in transit. And, then, the analysis of the low number of help motius, and so quickly modify it with this decree of urgent measures, because it is key that the analysis can be given a quick answer. Look, I'll explain the analysis we've done since the department, and who are the four main reasons for this reality. Little knowledge of aid and compensation. What do we do? We introduce the obligation of the services that meet the women who have suffered male violence to inform of the existence of these aids. Two, over-bureaucratic, especially clearly in the area of minors. The rule introduces obligations so as not to introduce, when the aid recipient is a woman who has suffered male rape, the fact that she has to submit returns from earlier years of age, the fact that girls and children do not have the same level of recognition as women who have suffered male rape the right to compensation, beyond the economic requirements of their situation. And it's one of the problems. The third, a very difficult problem; a problem that has denounced entities like Dones Juristes. A problem which, unfortunately, we cannot deal with in our area of competence, but which we are looking for in what way we can deal with, which is the accreditation of the sequences of sentences. We have noticed that many judicial sentences do not accurately capture the sequences of male rapes. For this reason, what we do, before we are unable to deal with it – because we cannot deal with it directly – is to add certification to it in other areas that are not judicial judgments. By means of a report from a meth of the public network; by means of a report from specialized intervention services or other specialized services, which are the best known of male violence and its sequels. It is worth remembering that the SIEs were attended to by five thousand women in 2019, that already in this beginning of 2020, we have increased the network from eight to twelve and that the assumptions that were approved this late allow us to expand the network until seven at the end of this year. They're holding a key paper. And it is absolutely necessary that the interdisciplinary teams of SIES professionals have this ability; they have the ability to credit the sequels. It will be a way to ensure what is a key right: compensation for the repair of male violence victims. Looking to the future, we also find that we will need to prepare much more agile regulations in the answer, capable of assessing facts and current events in a much faster way than we have practiced so far, in order to be able to articulate responses that have an obvious impact on the protection of rights and freedoms, on the protection of human rights. Women's rights are human rights. And it seems lying that we have to say it and that we have to repeat it so many times. That's it. We'll keep talking about masculinist rapes. The law – which we celebrated our birthday wish – spoke of "male violence. Now, all of us, all of us, we are very clear that there are various male rapes. We will continue to work so that equality is full, so that it is effective, for the full recognition of the rights of women to live with dignity, security and autonomy, exploitation, abuse and any kind of discrimination and inequality. That's what we're trying to do. It is a law of urgent measures that allows us to achieve a more agile and powerful response to women and their daughters and children, who have suffered from a situation that, as we must remember, needs to make us as bright as society. The second decree: the Decree of institutional participation, the permanent social dialogue and social concertation with the trade union and business organizations most representative of Catalonia. It's a step forward. It is a pending assignment that the Government of the Generality held and that it has held with all the political colors that have governed it. To have the ability to provide transparency, order and value and protect a key area: social dialogue, concertation, the ability to reach agreements with agents, the ability to build together. And, truth be told, circumstances are very harsh, but it is a pass that this country could not afford not to do. Many years, many governments, advisors and advisors of Work of all political colors have tried, but now we have done it with an entire year's work; with a joint work with agents; with a job that allows to give this transparency, that allows to organize it better and that allows, in particular, to protect an environment that we have to protect, that is social dialogue, concertation, institutional participation. And I think we see the results, and we see them day by day. This country has always incorporated this will to build among all, this will for civil society to be a part of the whole decision-making process, this ability to reach agreements from the difference, from the discrepancy. And that's why it's important. And we've already incorporated it into a lot of areas, from the SOC Board of Directors to the Labour Relations Board, to a lot of areas where it was, but we needed to straighten it out, we needed to equip it with that more central space. We need to be able to take a step forward. And he'd tried for many years and he hadn't made it. And I think that's good news. Catalonia has always aspired to have stable spaces. Why? Because it helps us. And we've seen it the last few weeks. We have seen the last few weeks, where we have been able to agree, in the framework of the Council of Labour Relations, as, together, with different views, with different views, because the starting points were very different on the part of everyone who participated in it: the Government of the Generality, the various departments, which had to have a look around their responsibilities and competences, employers and trade unions..., but we were able to reach an agreement on this mark for which it meant overcoming the period of the refundable leave recoverable. We could discuss whether it is a paid permit or whether it was – or is – an irregular distribution of the day. No problem. But when he passed, what way did they treat him? And we were able to do it with a document with many practicalities. Why? Because everyone was generous. Because that's what social dialogue and concertation is. It is not defending your point of view, only; it is the ability to reach agreement, it is the ability to find the points of finding, it is the ability to generate security among all. And we have had it, in this example and we will need it even more, before the social, economic and labour situation that this country will live, that will live all Europe, that will live all the world. And I think that forces us to be even stronger in this area. And in this sense, above this decree at a time when it is more than opportune. And even though we were carrying a year of working on it, in silence, without focusing, because these jobs have to be done in silence, with some parties and with a lot of different views, but it allows us to have a document that is absolutely consensual with the agents, that is a key element, that is an element that is to be carried in this Parliament in this way, that is absolutely consensual. And it's also a reality, like the country. Also for the government. What does the concert allow us to do? To deal with areas where we do not have skills, but to do so from the social dialogue, from the follow-up, from this area where, in the world of work, it is very important, because it can and generates norms – it can and generates norms – beyond the governmental spheres. And that's also the key. It strengthens the catalyse of labour relations, strengthens the capacity of subsidiarity around policies for workers and workers, for the citizen and citizens of this country. And I think it's a very important element. What does that mean, too? An advance – an advance. That is why, in the framework of this decree, the Conseil de Dialeg Social de Catalunya is created. A co-legitimate body of institutional and permanent participation, of a tripartite nature, which is responsible for the development of the dialogue and social concertation, which is attached to the department that I am close to coordinating, but which does not preside over the department that I am close to coordinating, because it has a global vision of government that will allow us to be much more directed; to know with character previews the advance projects and the draft regulatory standards, regulations; that it will allow us to situate a greater scope, re-information on the plans, the programs, the actions developed, participate in the elaboration of criteria, guidelines, general lines. And this was also linked to a few rights and rights, right and right of the organizations. Because that's the way it is, because that's the way we grow up: when we're able to keep a lot of transparency. And it also allows another element, another element that is key. And that is to guarantee the functioning and the financing of the Tribunal Laboral de Catalunya. An organ that is involved in the most representative trade union and business organizations, which is the main tool for extrajudicial resolution of labour disputes in our country, which, if I may, is not a mark of labour relations. It's a Catalan mark of labor relations, and I think we can say it with a lot of pride. It's referential, the FTA. And it was important, before the changes that the governments of the People's Party took on certain levels of entities that are public, but that they are also involved by agents that are not public, to be able to protect this space. You, I suppose, are aware of the work that the FTA will do in post-containment; of the importance that the FTA will have to avoid judicial saturation; of the importance that it has to reach agreements before going to social justice. And that is why we also protect and protect him in the framework of this decree of urgent measures. Catalonia makes a pass around the social dialogue, concertation and institutional participation. A necessary pass, a pass that many governments had worked and that – and I say it here – we took advantage of a part of the work of these governments predicted by the Generality, which they had made, of all political colors. And I'm saying that, huh? Of all the political colors. What we've done is silent work, ant work, political work in the lower case so that we can have this agreement and present it here. And up at a time when it'll still have more importance for all the situation we'll find ourselves in. These are the two decrees of urgent measures that I have come to defend in the House of Commons. To thank them who can pull forward, because I believe that the two are two central areas, two necessary areas, two areas worked out of the context of the Covid crisis, of the Covid health crisis, but that they also have even more importance taking into account the Covid crisis. From here, at your disposal, Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.148.0	Thank you, Counselor. The interventions of the parliamentary groups begin, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, for Mrs Naomi de la Calle. The memories they have for minutes per parliamentary group. [[Pause.]] Wait, after every turn, it's disinfecting the Faristol. In any case, thank you very much, Juan. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.149.0	Good morning, everyone. We started with the first decree that the Government brings us to vote to remedy the mistakes made in the granting of compensation to victims of macho violence, which they recognize in their own explanatory statement. To situate us, these compensations are a decree that contains Law 5/2008, from the law of the gifts to eradicate male violence, and, so that those who are listening to us can be made to the idea, I will give a data: between 2015 and 2019 there were seven_ thousand convictions and, in the same period, only these aids were granted to ninety_and_one persons. The councillor, with the rhetoric that characterizes him, has taken a dissertation and, in fact, has gone from points to points because of the causes that have motivated the modification of the decree of 2015, and when he has done so it has been to blame for a decree of the government of Artur Mas, obviating that it was governed thanks to Esquerra and that, subsequently, you have governed two legislatures without having done anything so far. Councillor El Homrani himself acknowledged, yes, that this was due to two things: on the one hand, a problem of lack of knowledge of the victims about these rights and, on the other hand, to bureaucratic obstacles and a problem of designing aid. Let us begin with the first, which is the problem of ignorance and which, in our view, this decree does not finish solving. For an idea to be made, only nine people accessed these aids in 2019. And it is easy to understand why the victims do not know that they have the right to receive these compensations and it is also easy to deduce why the Government of the Generalitat does not make all the effort it should to receive them. Most victims do not know that they have this right because from the government they do not put themselves in the means to do so. For example, millions of dollars are spent on institutional advertising, which we pay all Catalans in our pocket, but this institutional advertising in the end only serves to say that how beautiful, how handsome the Government is, and how well it does things, but not to inform the citizen of their rights or how to process aids and benefits. Nor is the information that can be provided from the services of care for women or social services sufficient because, as a macro-survey of violence against women from the Ministry of Spain reveals, only 13.1_percent of women who have suffered physical or sexual violence go to the social services or public resources to ask for help. That is to say, as much as the EIS reports these aids, nine out of ten victims will remain unaware that they have these rights. What would this government have to do if it really wanted to give effect to the rights set forth in the law so that all victims could have access to aid? To sign an agreement with the judiciary so that the administration could handle such aid ex officio. Thus the victims would not have to know whether by the press or because that 86,9_per_cent of the victims who do not go to social services would also know that they are entitled to such compensation. On the one hand, I understand that this Government does not envisage the signing of an agreement with the judiciary because it is not that they behave very well, unfortunately. And, on the other hand, because the lack of awareness of these rights on the part of the victims leads them to save a lot of money, which can then be spent on those indispensible expenses that we all know, which serve only their interests and, under no circumstances, the interests of the citizenry. And it is that, with the signing of an agreement with the judiciary, since the first judicial decision in which precautionary measures have been taken, the Generalitat could, on its own initiative, inform the victims of the existence of these rights and offer them the opportunity to access these compensations. But, of course, it is much cheaper to draw up an urgent decree which, as the Government itself recognizes in the economic memory attached to this decree, will benefit only fifty women and twenty-five children. Fifty_y_five women and twenty-five children, compared to a thousand_five court rulings that occurred in 2019 related to male violence. Make your own conclusions. Then we have the second problem which, in the mouth of the Councillor himself, is that of bureaucratic obstacles and the poor design of aid, which is already a characteristic seal of the Government in general and of this Councillor in particular. And if not, let them tell the people who are still waiting for a review of the unduly justified delegations of guaranteed citizenship income, something which has been approved in countless occasions in this Parliament at the request of my parliamentary group and we are still waiting for the Government to carry out as many other things. And in the case we are dealing with, which is that of aid to victims of macho violence, because we have also focused, and I will give you an example: in 2017, a proposal for a citizens' resolution was adopted, in which we highlighted the obstacles to access to this aid, which included victims of sexual assault, trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation or female genital mutilation. Specifically, in point (d) of Resolution 727/11, which was adopted, we called for the assessment of victims' access to aid under the law. And if you look at the debate on the proposal, I myself have noticed the importance of this point, because of the existence of obstacles to access to these rights. And I literally read part of the speech: "We ask for a report to assess the possible misadjustments that we may have in guaranteeing these rights so that we can correct them and solve them. Then, of course, those who have no memory or who do not know that we had this debate three years ago, will be able to believe what the Government claims that oh, by the art of magic, they have now realized and have come to correct it. But no. Some of us have already warned it in its day, brought it to this Parliament, put it to a vote, it was approved, and the Government did so because what it did with this proposal is to put it in a drawer like all that the opposition proposes and approves in this Parliament. And now they come here with a decree that may seem to help many victims. But, I repeat, reading the economic memory that the Government itself attached to the decree, it can be seen that, of the thousand and fifty victims with a court ruling in 2019, to which this decree could help, in fact, will only help unless you can count on the fingers of ten deputies. We will vote in favour of this decree because it is preferable to help eighty victims rather than none, but we do not want to stop telling them that, once again, you are late and bad. As always. And look, let them be late, yet; but let them do so evil has no excuse. You can't fix a cod with another cod. And that is why, from my parliamentary group, we believe that the best way to help victims is to process this decree as a draft law, through the urgent procedure, so that it can be improved with input from all parliamentary groups. We believe that the urgent treatment of this decree is the only option to remedy the numerous shortcomings it contains quickly, and we reiterate to the Government of the Generalitat the need to take seriously the fight against macho violence and the reparation of the victims, because fighting the maximum expression of inequality does not mean putting one link only once a year and reading great institutional statements. The reparation to the victims is obtained not only by minutes of silence but by accompanying them, by protecting them and making effective the rights they have collected by our laws. And reparation to the victims is achieved not only by gestures or dissertations, but by deeds. And with regard to the second decree regulating the institutional participation, permanent social dialogue and social consultation of the most representative trade unions and business organizations. Well, it is a decree that, in order not to overwhelm the judicial process, bets on conciliation, mediation and arbitration as an instrument of social and economic agents for the extra-judicial resolution of conflicts. We find it hard to believe that the Generalitat is going to do everything it says here because, well, it sounds more to me like those songs in the sun that unfortunately this government has already accustomed us to, and even more so when, in the first transitional provision, the government gives itself a six-month period to start the proceedings. [[the speaker laughs]] - No, no, no, And well, knowing, then, the calm with which you usually take the pending work and the little respect you have for the time limits of the laws, you will understand that we do not have too much hope. Let us remember all the social laws that remain without regulation. So good, then, we, from Citizens, will vote in favour, but we ask the Government for concrete action and a specific action plan, because the adoption of this decree has to be accompanied by a series of resources and economic measures for the speeding up of the administration and, as I said, providing technical and personal resources. We ask you to provide all the information, to advocate for transparency, to be agile in the processing and implementation of solutions to the employment and economic situation that we have in the current health and economic crisis. We need speed and efficiency to improve the response to citizens and all sectors involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward is the turn of Congresswoman Eva Granados. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.151.0	Thank you. Good morning, everybody. We are now dealing with two decrees approved by the Government in the margins of the crisis, but, as the Councillor said, to which I thank him for his intervention, they are two decrees that we can also link with the situation we are going through. In the concertation, in the decree of concertation, we talk about the creation of the Conseil de Diàleg Social a Catalunya, a permanent space, long awaited by many, then I will comment. And I believe that the pact proposed by Miquel Iceta to President Torra this morning in the control session because it can also be a space where political forces and also social actors can reach agreements in this reconstruction pact. And the compensation decree, talking about macho violence and knowing that during these weeks of confinement there has been a 60_per_cent increase in calls to that victim care phone, because I also think it has a lot to do with the situation we are going through now. I debate these decrees, even if Bea Silva is the person who carries the issues of gender violence, the deputy who carries them, and Pol Gibert the employment issues, but good today is a full a little exceptional for the situation we live in. Let's see, since we have statistics for Spain as a whole, there have been more than 1,051 victims since 2003 and, in what we have been doing since 2020, eighteen for Spain as a whole and three, with the statistics that I have looked at this morning in Catalonia, fatal victims of macho violence. It is clear that machismo is the main enemy of women, that we cannot see that there is a democratic society until we eliminate these machista behaviors. And I believe that the decree, which comes to correct a decree of 2015, is necessary, but I want to highlight something that the councillor has said, which has said so, as in the past. The citizen's deputy spoke about the problems of design and bureaucracy and information, but it is that the councillor has said something more and I have stayed, I don't know, the same can explain later, but it is that he said that when it was approved in 2015 there were budgetary restrictions. So it seems that it was no longer a problem of design, nor of information, nor of bureaucracy. Was the very design of the decree intended for less money to be spent? It's just that you said that, Counselor. That's what he said. So, if in 2015, councillor Mas-Colell : budgetary restrictions; in 2016 there were already more revenues in the Generalitat... In January 2016, the councillor d'Hisenda, of Economy, was already Oriol Junqueras and, therefore, has been in charge of the accounts of the Generalitat for many years. And if they knew that the mistakes were the design of the same decree, so that not so much money would be spent, I think we are faced with another situation. Because if we validate that decree, economic memory says it will only reach very few victims, then it continues to suffer from that design. That is why we are going to abstain in the process, but we will also want it to be processed as a law, because to see if with the contributions of all parliamentary groups we solve the problems of design, bureaucracy – the information I think can be reported without changing any decree – but also we make it reach all victims of macho violence, which is what it touches. And it is clear that if, since 2015, it has already been designed with that objective and with that framework of budgetary restrictions forming part of the design, it is clear that it has not been the priority of the Government and Councillor Mas-Colell nor of the advisers or the governments that have followed. Then they also have a lot of responsibility. Our law on the eradication of sexist violence is from 2008 and was innovative for the recovery and reparation of the victims, but it has been twelve years and none of these issues have come true as reflected in the same law. I believe that they have not been willing to prioritise or to have the resources for their deployment, and the example is that this afternoon budgets have been approved and neither does the priority that victims of male violence need in the budgets. We know that our network only reaches one_of_each_ten victims who are believed to be victims of violence, so it is clear that we are not solving the problem either with this decree or with the budgets that we will adopt this afternoon. Look, during confinement, the situation of women is at greater risk when they find themselves locked up with their assailant, as the counselor said. And I was also saying a moment ago that calls to 900 900 120 have increased by 60_per_cent. But it's just that the entities are telling us, the entities that do direct care, have reported that they lack the resources to care for these women who are calling this phone number. And therefore it is of little use to give them telephone attention if then there are no spaces, no equipment, nor sufficient resources to accompany them. And we are also told by the entities that there is a revictimization, because every time they call and have to talk to different people they have to re-explain their situation. On 31 March, the Government of Spain authorized the funds of the State Pact against Gender Violence, which for Catalonia is almost 13_million_de_euro, to serve to address this situation. And Baleares has expanded social income. « Mascarilla-19 is a campaign that began in the Canary Islands and is spreading across different communities throughout the state. And here... they haven't done the campaigns they promised. The other day, Councilwoman Budó said so in her appearance. And we ask him: create spaces; they have extraordinary resources to carry out this type of aid. We are not going to oppose the processing of the decree, but we believe it has to be processed as a law. And the other... the other decree, the 9/2020 institutional participation, permanent social dialogue and social concertation. I have a special illusion, and the Councillor also has to know, because we proceed with trade unionism, and it is a pleasure for me to be able to vote on this decree establishing this institutional participation, permanent social dialogue and concertation. 2009... as we've been home so many days, we've been able to look at papers that we've kept for a long time, and kept an institutional participation guide that I did then, when I was at the UGT, with Helena Alarcón, on the institutional participation map. It was UGT, but obviously it can be replicated for Pimec, for Foment and for Workers Commissions. And, look, in 2009 economic and social agents participated in Catalonia in 680 organisations– 680 – because that means all the councils, that is to say many municipalities, that is to say ministries, that is to say European bodies; that is to say, the unions and employers, more than negotiating agreeable collections, more than having safety and health at work, do a very important function on the representation of society and on the management and negotiation of social wages. And that's why it's so important that a law..., and it also made memory these days, 2005 – and many years ago – approved a preliminary project of institutional participation that was dictated by the Council of Economic and Social Work. Then he didn't get to see the light, that law, but as the counselor said, it's been many years since the unions, the employers and the left parties, so we claim this law. A law that deals with institutions and in different laws. At the convenient 150 of the ILO. To the European Union there is a communication in 2004 of European social dialogue, but also in 2017 at the summit of Gothenburg, in favor of work and growth just, and in the European Social Pillar, therefore, there is one of the principles, which is this social dialogue and collective bargaining. Also to our Constitution, in Article 1, when it speaks of a democratic social state and right is talking about this plural conception and participatory view of the political process. The same goes for article 7, which says that unions and employers are basic organizations of the political system in the joint venture of Spain, and also for article 129 of the Constitution, when talking about these forms of institutional participation in public bodies. We take up the subject of the concept of "more representative of the Law of Freedom of Association and also of the Status of Workers", and it is clear that also in our Statute of Autonomy, in Article 4, Article 25 speaks of this mission to complete the functions of concertation of participation and social cooperation. In the remaining minute... The interprofessional agreement, the Labour Court of Catalonia, which he mentioned to the Councillor, and the Council of Economic and Social Work, the Council of Labour Relations, the strategic agreements that were made to, in reality, cover trade union and business agents from 2005 to 2011, is the history of social concertation in our country. And it is also time, therefore, that in the socio-economic sphere, employment, education, vocational training, housing, health, infrastructure, environment, equality, social policies, all these areas involving trade unions and employers, so we can make a law that recognizes them. We will also ask..., we will vote affirmatively, but we will ask that it is passed as it is to the law, because if we have the Law of the Labour Relations Council [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] We have the Law of CTESC, we have the Law of the Labour Court of Catalonia, we deserve, too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.153.0	...to have the law of institutional participation as they have other autonomous communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next item is Mr Lucas Ferro, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.155.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, the right to be repaired economically, is to say, that the women who have suffered a difficult situation of male violence, and the children who have lost a mother murdered by male violence have a right to compensation for their life, and as a recognition also of the suffering caused, was recognized for the first time in the Organic Law 1/2004, of comprehensive protection measures against gender violence. It's been seven years since this right was recognized. In Catalonia, 2008, Law 5/2007, on the right of women to eradicate male violence reverses this right and reverses the generality's right to guarantee the resources needed to compliment it, because the recognition of a right is the obligation, it is the recognition of the generality's right to account for the compliment of this right. Eleven years after – eleven years after – the first recognition via the Organic Law, the Generality drafted Decree 80/2015 to compliment it. It was eleven years ago, and surely the response time was already unacceptable in terms of democratic dignity, but the worst was not that it was triguet eleven years in giving response, but that the response it gave was shamefully insufficient and deliberately insufficient. It is a decree, basically, that its objective is not to deploy the material recognition of women who have suffered male rape to perceive compensation, but its objective is precisely to prevent this right from being deployed, and to prevent the women of this country and the orphan children of that country from being entitled to compensation. In Catalonia, 2009 there were more than 22,000 complaints of male violence. There were more than 1,400 convictions for male violence. There were twenty-four women who were able to access compensation, and therefore we are talking about a level of coverage of 1 and mig per cent and escalating. And with the decree you're planting today, with the economic memory that accompanies you, we're talking about a coverage of up to fifty women and up to twenty-five sons and daughters that her mother was murdered for male violence; that's, a coverage of eighty cases of more than 1,400 cases that are on the table, and therefore it's inefficient, unjust and ineffective, and it doesn't give an answer. And we put them in place so that from here six months, twelve months, we can deploy a law that gives an answer, says or divides years after recognition of this right to the performance of a compensation. And, therefore, we continue to depart with this decree. It is true that we correct, and it is true that it is better fifty-five that twenty-four, and it is better to approve decrees that extend the recognition of this right than not to maintain the current situation, but starting from the same situation: the right to repair women victims of male violence and children who have seen how they have murdered their mother fruit of male violence is not a right subject to presuppositional availability, it is a right that can guarantee institutionally beyond presuppositional forecast. The economic situation of 2015 is better than what we're having this year. And 2016 was better than 2021. And I think that all Members of this House should come to the consensus that there are parties that cannot be subject to presuppositional availability. That the dignity of a government is also to assume that there are parties that must be covered by blessings or macro-economic evils. And this is one of those parties that, by institutional dignity and democratic dignity, we should not be discussing in the terms in which we are discussing it in this decree. Before that, we will abstain, and now we are supporting it as a bill of law and abstain, I insist, because we understand that it is better to approve this decree and extend it or that the right to receive compensation is marginally present than to keep it under current conditions. But we want to process it as a bill because we understand that it's a decree that doesn't respond to the structural background of the issue. And, therefore, we need legislation that applies changes. That I changed the way I thought about this compensation, to deal with it administratively and to ensure sufficient coverage for this benefit. We can discuss amounts, but it's certainly not the fund debate. It's probably a gray debate in which we're forced to value ourselves for an episode of male violence, and it's definitely a debate that's not the most relevant to have in this room, but we do think it's about different things. The Catalan law that recognizes the right of women to protect themselves from male violence does not bind the right to compensation to a judicial sentence, and therefore to link this right to the fact that there is a judicial sentence, with the graces that you have designated, goes against the Catalan law's experience to eradicate male violence in this country. And, therefore, we have to work legislatively and regularly to ensure that we have a feeling that hard episodes of mistreatment are not required. There are other institutions that can guarantee this recognition, and therefore we need to disengage this performance from the judgments. And, also, that the recognition of being a victim of male violence cannot be linked exclusively to having suffered severe physical injuries. Calvary and psychological maltreatment is also a central element of male-based violence in this country and, therefore, must have a comprehensive and comprehensive view of what male-based violence is all about. And by the end, I go with the following decree, with decree number 9, concertation and social dialogue in this country. We shall vote in favour. We appreciate the silent work, as you said, which you have done, which has led to the approval of this decree; we appreciate the work that economic actors have done in this country to be able to close a consensus text, and we appreciate, of course, the work that the previous governments have done so that today we can approve this decree. We would certainly like to do a reflection. Many of the situations we are now facing with this health emergency have much to do with what has happened in this country, with a lack of social dialogue and with a response to the 2008 crisis that broke the possibility of social dialogue in this country. We are experiencing a health crisis that expresses many fundamental crises: that of having dismantled our product fabric, that of having pre-characterized labor relations in this country, that of having retaliated for years the state of welfare in our home. And so, even though you're not tied to this situation and you're tied to a planned job, we think that in this situation, it's a vital measure to recover. I need to get out of this crisis by reactivating the social dialogue and I can feel... that these institutions, that this institution is leading and coordinating a wider social dialogue than it is itself. Because getting out of this crisis involves asking yourself many questions: it involves asking yourself the question of what kind of product we want for the future of this country; it involves asking ourselves how we want to guarantee the technological transition to industry 4.0 and to a digitalized world of work and production, and how we want this digital transition guarantee to reach the autonomes, the peppers, and not just the big companies in this country. Or how we guarantee a just and effective energy transition for the product fabric and for the city of this country. Or as we guarantee the right to work worthy of the economy of plataforms and precariousness that already threaten the working structure of our country. And this requires joint planning tools and tools, and requires effective social dialogue mechanisms. We need to rethink the National Pact for Industry, we need to rethink the National Pact for Energy Transition, we need to rethink the National Pact for the Knowledge Society and we need to build a national pact for the economic and social reconstruction of our country. And, therefore, we applaud the fact that we have this social dialogue tool that this country deserves and that it must be central to be able to plan and agree on recovery and construction policies for a new model of welfare in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed is the turn of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.157.0	Well, good morning, deputies and deputies. I take advantage of this intervention to show my condolences to all the friends, relatives and companions who have died because of the consequences of the Covid-19, and also to wish that all the sick people are recovered soon. That said, let's go into the assessment of the decrees that lead us to debate. In the first place, and in relation to Decree 4/2020, for which the transitional rule is established for the granting of compensation and aid for women victims of male violence, we want to say that despite the fact that this decree was very linked to the fact that there are judicial sentences or that there are complaints of male violence, the year 2019, despite the fact that there have been twenty thousand complaints of male violence in Catalonia and that there are more than 1,500 convictions, only eleven women have finally acceded to the corresponding compensation. Of the new official feminicides that occurred in Catalonia in 2019, only due to the girls of seas murdered by their peers or exparels benefited from the compensation correspondents. These are facts that the same department, therefore, already specifies in the same decree and, therefore, the decree we are debating today is the fruit of various irregularities and, if I may, certainly also of heavy negligence. Bureaucratic labyrinths and very little information. A way to really leave the women who have suffered male violence in a situation of difficult defencelessness, with this lack of information. What was no one worried about looking to see if the assumption related to these compensations had been executed? It is a decree that was actually corrected with the aim of putting a piece and getting a headline in the feminist struggle day of March 8. The same advisor El Homrani recognized the deficiencies in the circuit and the information of the help to the beginnings of the month of March. And we don't stop asking how it can be that some compensations regulated by decree have passed five years in such an irregular way that no one has done any kind of control, no one has been assigned. What happened? Five years in which the rights of surviving women of male violence have been violated. And most importantly, the rights of the most vulnerable have been violated in these cases, which are children, children and girls who also suffer directly from this violence. How could this be allowed? We made a ple in order to develop feminist policies, we took pictures of each other talking about feminism, and no one controlled it? Has no one controlled that compensation is not given to victims of male violence and that compensation is also given to children who suffer directly from this violence? It's just that it's not all about headlines and rhetoric, it's about doing the job. I can control that things work. The debate and vote on this decree gives us an opportunity. It gives us an opportunity to address the transformation of a system of attention to women that today is fragile, pre-characterized and privatized. A structure that has long suffered, therefore, from oversaturation, that also suffers from an emotional overload of the workers, but that also suffers from the infants. And it is that the deliberate policy of privatization, of unpacking of the public sector has consequences. And we've explained it on many occasions. It has affected the care network to women victims of masculinist rapes and by the day of its early survival a network with highly collapsed services thanks to an ingenious work that makes workers in many cases very little recognizable. Therefore, we repeat that it is essential, it is urgent, it is necessary to recover the public management of all the services of the attention network and the full recovery of women who suffer male violence, and also to promote feminist training to all public personnel. Today, the CUP, we give you the opportunity to approve assumptions that can reverse this situation. In the first place, creating a structural foundation to create a formation that goes to public workers, so that the criteria of genere apply to all the policies of the Administration. And for another gang, too, with an observer to fight the masculinist rapes. We've been trying to deal with this issue with the government. We've tried to reach an agreement so we can create an observer against male rapes, but it seems that at the last minute we haven't reached this agreement and they'll explain exactly why. The consequences of presuppositional retailing, SIAD outsourcing and women's service... There have been some retailing that manifest what the policy of this government is, beyond its proclamations: fever in strategic planning for the prevention and approach of male rapes. And that's hard. It's very hard, because we're playing it. And, therefore, we add that there are many and many shortcomings. Moreover, during these days when the situation of health emergency has manifested the consequences of privatizations, we see how women suffer the most from this situation. Because, if we look at the data, the infirmary, the pharmacy, the cleanness, the majority of mesgesesses or the majority of supermarket caixers are women and they're the ones who are on the front line today. And, frankly, we have seen a disdain, a way of not recognizing healing tasks that are absolutely essential for the development of life. The services that provide primarily to large people's residences, the services that provide mainly to the home care service, the public administration services that have been outsourced and that today run a private company. How many penalties, how many shippers have been opened to private companies that manage large people's residences and home care services that today are not compliant with labour prevention standards and are not giving PPE to workers? And how many complaints and how many shippers have opened up to concessions for leaving users in unworthy conditions? That's right, in order to rescue your benefits, they've corrected a lot of you, huh? That said, and finally, he wanted to enter the Concertation and Social Dialogue Decree. We will vote against this decree. In the first place, because it consolidates an institutional participation system that does not meet the criteria of union representation in each concrete field. Secondly, and following the first argument, because it only attributes representation according to criteria of more representative unions, leaving out unions that in our country, the public sector, have a high degree of representation. And in the third place, because it compromises a financing for institutional representation to the Council of Social Dialogue and to the Labour Court of Catalonia that is not determined. It is not we who are against the possibility of financing trade unions, but we vote against this decree because the criteria are, therefore, quite discriminatory of certain trade union forces. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We ask ourselves – President, I finish – what is the political objective of this decree. Why do they fund majority unions at a time when 25_percent of the population in Catalonia has temporarily or definitively gone to the lists of the club, when they are already sending direct grants worth 6.1_million euros and without competitions and supplements to other help they already receive? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Congresswoman Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.159.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, the repercussions of mistreatment are far beyond the scars of the skin, the wounded anima and, even more, the record of the victims during the rest of their lives, right? And they are both those who have suffered in the first person, because they have been lucky enough to survive the mistreatment of their pair or exparella, like the children who are at the side of those people. And it's true that to the own difficulties that you already have of being a victim of mistreatment, they add up to nine, don't they? I think that's what this decree is about, isn't it? , of the economic consequences that make so many victims who have had the fortune to survive as the children who have been witnesses and direct victims, therefore, that they are revictimized another time, with these difficulties. And that's why, among other things, when the State Pact against General Violence was pushed, isn't it? , to improve the institutional response and also to improve the social response before this chacra that is maltreatment. And it has completed three years and in its moment here it was made a law, in 2008, to eradicate male violence against the woman and the assemblies and the communities have been essential part in this bet to improve the institutional and social response. Today the government, therefore, in this situation of crisis of the coronavirus, brings us a decree. A decree that makes... well, it also makes a recognizance of errors – I think that's good, don't I? It is recognized that during all these years those women who had suffered ill-treatment, who had recognition of being victims of this through a judicial sentence, or even all their children, have not been able to have economic help from the institutions. Among other things, because the same abusers are the first who do not pay the compensations to which they are sentenced. And I think that's what it takes to recognize, so that sometimes politically, it costs a lot of money to recognize mistakes, right? And if he does, I think he's good and he has to applaud. But we don't just stay with this, to recognize mistakes. If we look at this decree and look at the economic memory that accompanies it, we find that this proposal, according to those terms, would help quite a few people. Seventy-six people are few beneficiaries, I think, to make this legislation and this amendment to the 2015 decree, which was absolutely wrong. It is also true that a few days ago, on the 31st, a royal decree was issued that enabled the assemblies and the communities to serve the foundations of the State Pact against General Violence, so that in this situation of crisis of the coronavirus it is more necessary to put in the way specific measures that help during this crisis the victims, right? And it's true that this decree can help. I can help, and that's why we're voting. We will refrain from it because we understand that it is necessary, but we believe that the means that are being designed and contained are not the ones that will help and give security to those women or children who are victims of abuse. Why? We consider that a much more accurate, much more concrete rule is needed, with much clearer conditions. We know – you remember, in fact, you recognize it too – that resources are finite, and therefore, to extend this help to the greater number of potential beneficiaries requires this, concretely, right? And we believe that it is important, therefore, to believe the lack of resources and also the special difficulties to find work. Now, after this coronavirus crisis, it'll still be harder. We also believe that it is important that a maximum import is fixed. We, for example, in Galicia, fixed that the maximum import – the generic – should, for example, be of six months with a quantity equivalent to the subsidisation of the twilight, but that then it could be extended until the split, which you also mention in this decree. But they do it, so... they also recognize that those women who care for a minor or even a disabled family member still have more difficulty surviving. That said, we think it's important. We will abstain from this decree, but we do believe that as there is this lack, as there is this recognition of errors that have effectively made it difficult for many people to benefit from help..., we believe that it is important that it is done by passing a law. It may delay a little bit of the process, but I think it can shorten terms and do it as quickly as possible, and therefore this will be our position in accordance with this decree. With regard to the government's decree on social concertation, we are in complete agreement. Despite this – we will vote in favour – we believe that this should also be dealt with by him. We believe that it is opportune to serve these institutions, these channels of participation and this involvement of both social agents, unions and employers, businesses in a much more stable, much more fixed, much more regulated, regulatory way..., not only for the number of institutions we respect, but also for the fact that it is good now, taking into account the current context, to enhance this social concertation. Therefore, yes, totally in agreement with greater institutional participation in the trade union and business organizations most representative of Catalonia. Well, we can fix what it means and who are the organizations that consider it more representative and why. Absolutely in agreement to create the Conseil de Dialeg Social de Catalunya that announces this decree. But it is also true that, since there has not been a general rule of character that sets these minimum criteria – and this has, in change, been done to other autonomous communities and has given good results, and it has been done to the Region of Murcia, for example, it has been done to the Valencian Community and to Aragó, and a long time ago – given that we are already late, we feel that it does not hurt to serve another rule, a law that gives more security and can regulate this with all the demands that the moment requires. Because you, counselor, at your presentation said: "I don't know if you have stopped thinking about what will happen after this coronavirus crisis, which job scenes we will find. No, we've had enough to think about. Precisely because of this, because we know that it will be a very complicated scene to manage, because we know that the first time is the ERTOs, but then the tanks come and then you see the possibility to reintegrate into a labour market much more fragile than we had before this crisis, which we consider, therefore, yes, that we will actually take urgent action, because the situation is urgent, but it must be done with certainty, and this requires law-level standards.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group now, you have the word Mrs Raquel Sans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.161.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, first of all, join me in expressing sympathy for the families that we have lost loved ones because of the Covid-19, and also join me in applauding the salutary staff, as well as the social services, and taking advantage to extend the grace also to the staff of this chamber that today makes it possible, therefore, that we are still here, that we can celebrate this plenary. Therefore, a thank you to all and to all. In a context of normality, these two decrees presented to us today by Councilman El Homrani would defend them in this faristol my companies Jenn Díaz and Jordi Albert, therefore, we are not in a context of normality and I will be the same who does. In the first place, I will begin by commenting on the decree of the law of male violence. I think, as the Councillor said, that it is a very opportune decree in the moments we are living. Surely there is a deeper reflection, as Congressman Ferro said, but, in any case, today, we are talking about male violence, also talking about the current context and denouncing the double pandemic that these weeks of confinement are patenting many women and infants victims of male violence. The situation – he said – forced them to stay close for twenty-four hours a day with their abusers, without any social contact and with the total certainty that they control mobile phones and any type of communication. A situation that, in a sense of doubt, exposes them even more. In fact, a few days ago, Councilwoman Budo explained that cheats on the permanent service of attention to victims of male violence had increased by 60_per_cent. Despite the conditionality we say, to be stuck with their attackers, forty tricks a day have fallen apart. I repeat, forty tricks a day. In the Spanish State, moreover, during this state of alarm three women have been murdered. And we are particularly concerned about what the weekend will be like when the confinement is over. The administrations must – wem – be able to respond to the needs and emergencies of these women and children. The street deputy said that this decree did not help; the one that I'm sure does not help victims of male violence is to whiten Vox's fetishists. I'm sure that doesn't help them. Therefore, it is very timely that today the Government, that the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families present to us this decree; a decree that seeks is more than more women and children than there have been victims of male violence can access an economic aid that is essential to be able to rebuild their lives. In fact, the Decree 80/2015, which today is intended to amend, incorporated five years ago, as it was said, an economic compensation for these victims and also for the children who had been orphaned by a feminicide. But just as he recognizes the same text and as he recognized the same counselor, so there's not enough – there's not enough. They're not enough. At that time they fixed these aids without knowing either what would be the abscess of the compensations to be given. Here it has been said that there are very few of them – the same advisor recognized it. We would appreciate it if the same proposal was addressed to the Government of the State too, because if you split help, that they were the ones who donated 2019, they are few, yet there are fewer of the two that the Government of the Spanish State granted. Therefore, here, therefore, all of us who have responsibilities, also in Madrid, should be equal or more demanding. Now, from the perspective, as I said, they give five years, so it has been seen that I can modify things, that I can improve some aspects. They've talked about the ciphers, they've given themselves the ciphers, haven't they? : twenty thousand complaints, 1,500 strong feelings and it is obvious that something fails and that, therefore, it is necessary to modify the law so that these aids, as I said, reach as many women as possible, as many infants as possible. Who are the faults – the counselor said so, didn't he? – what have been detected and, therefore, what are the aspects that modify this decree? From the outset it has been seen that many of the victims are unaware of the possibility of access to compensation. Therefore, the new decree including that some of the social services will have to inform them of the existence of these aids. You can't ask what's not known to exist. But surely the main novelty that this regulatory change introduces is that they will no longer be exclusively through a judicial resolution, is to say, through the decision of a judge, that the victims will be able to prove the gravity of the sequels in a case of maltreatment. These women will have the option of submitting a report issued for a public health service methge or methgessa or for staff of specialized intervention services – SIES – which will be able to certify physical and psychological damage. Moreover, this decree also seeks to expand – in fact, seeks to multiply by two – the IS network, recovery centers and assistance for people who have been victims of male violence. Let us remember that at the beginning of the year there had been eight acts and that the object of the department encapsulated by Councillor El Homrani is to finish the year with seven rural centers of the territory, which will allow to give better response and attention to victims, but also to inform them of the existence of these aids. Therefore, I think I should congratulate the department for having been able to analyse, evaluate a measure that did not work and that needed to be modified to meet the objective for which it had been intended. Thanks for taking the step, counselor, with a decree that we validate today, a_me later than the forecast, too– the health emergency and preventive confinement have made it until today– and, as I said, this situation, which is so exceptional and difficult for everyone, makes it even more necessary to approve this decree, to help those who perish in the confinement, that there are and we need to be for them. Today's decree is just one more measure, a small degree of smile of all that the Public Administration has to implement to eradicate the great pandemic of male violence. And today we also approve of another decree, which also drives the department of Councillor El Homrani, which we know is doing a lot of work. In this case, for another area of his department, for Work, and, in fact, in this case, so what should be here is my company Jordi Albert. Today we want to put into value the concertation and social dialogue, a way of making it part of the tradition, of the costume of this country and that today we have a regulatory_frame. With this new standard we set for law the standards of participation in the field of work, which between all and all of us had already built, the most representative trade union and business organizations and institutions. The object of this decree, therefore, is nothing more than to make the network more robust in defense of the dialog and labor relations. It is true that we do not have competitions in this area, but we do have a long tradition of this institutional and social dialogue with an organised civil society that acts as an active agent in many areas of participation. Catalonia has always aspired to have these stable spaces where, through concertation, it is agreed with economic and social agents. A nuclear example of this bet is the Labour Relations Council, created by law in 2007, and its vocation to boost and strengthen a labour relations-friendly framework, which has been named the Catalan labour relations brand. Territorial and local areas have also been characterized by proximity and adaptation to diverse socio-economic realities such as key institutional participation spaces. We have given validity to a decree which confirms the Catalan area of labour relations for the productive reality of Catalonia and promote such practices as collective bargaining, out-of-court settlement of labour disputes and participation in the development and the betterment of the productive entremat; that is to say, shielding an area for agreement, which will be, as has also been said here, much needed in the time to come. Therefore, this agreement and this dialog will be very essential. An agreement led by the Department of Work with the support of the departments that are part of it and today, therefore, the consultancy allows us to protect this brand of collective work. The counselor said, reaching agreement from different positions is a success and a round effort that must be appreciated and put into value, so that you can put something at the center as the highest priority, and we precisely understand that this is the lesson that we need to learn from this health, social, and economic crisis. We could talk about a humane crisis. As long as we demand feminists, we must lay our lives at the center. And that's what it is with these two decrees. Protect us in vulnerability, when we are in the world of work or when we are for good reason. And do it from a social perspective. I cannot end without making it obvious the urgency to approve these two decrees, and I insist especially, to put my gaze back, to put all the attention on these double-punished women in this crisis. Therefore, it is important that today we can approve these two decrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.162.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it's the turn of Congresswoman Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.163.0	Well; good morning, President Torrent, deputies, deputies, councillor, also those who follow us at a distance through the Parliament Channel. Our first words of today, in this House, are a condolences to all those people who have lost family and friends pull out of the Covid and desire, therefore, because those people who are still admitted are recovering as soon as possible. We also want to recognize the pocket of all those people who are on the front line: health personnel, midwives, nurses, social workers, geriatrics, cleaners, waste collection, pharmacies..., and everyone who makes it possible, especially the agricultural sector, that our fringes and supermarkets have nothing to do with anything. Our most sincere recognition. Also recognition to Parliament staff that today makes this Plea possible. And to match this recognition, I think what's needed is self-criticism and humility. We want to build an independent country to have a new opportunity to make things better. And these two decrees I think are an opportunity. Unlike the rest of the Members, I will first focus on social concertation and end up with male violence. To the first decree law, which is the decree law of institutional participation, of the permanent social dialogue and of concertation with the trade union and business organizations most representative of Catalonia, therefore, of course, we support it. Why? Because it's about a decree that what it does is to have instruments and to recognize and consolidate the role of business and trade union organizations in its extensive work of institutional participation. Catalonia is a country of long association tradition in many areas and diverse as the economy, sport, beneficial, social..., and therefore we understand that this is what it does to strengthen it. The business associationism, the strengthening of their ancient associations or the labor movements that formed the birth of the unions, as an example, of this associate spirit, and their legitimate claims have been an element of progress and social and economic dynamism. Therefore, we understand that this decree is more of an instrument that must also allow us, in this context I believe that of the current economic crisis – not of the future, but of the present – therefore, to be able to continue working and approaching. In fact, this concertation has allowed great country consensus in which business and trade union entities have participated. Like the interprofessional agreements, which came from the Labour Court of Catalonia, the employment pacts, the Catalan Training Council, and they have also participated in different national pacts of education, housing, immigration, for childhood or the recent pact for the society of knowledge. So we understand that it is a positive law decree that we will vote in favour, as it could not otherwise be, and we hope that it will also be a good instrument for the coming month. And for what he does to the second decree, the law of male violence, the principle of my intervention refers to the need for self-criticism and constant improvement. We need to be connected with different disciplines and experts to deal with the Covid and also be connected to the reality of the confinement. And the truth is that the reality of confinement with male violence brings us data that are not positive people. As has been said before, in the first fifteen days of confinement – only fifteen days – the SIES, the specialized intervention services, have telematically reached 2,088 women and have reached 275 children and adolescents. And this month of April, as some honourable Member has also referred, there has been a 60 per cent increase in phone calls for assistance. From these data, from these indicators, there is a woman, there is a child, a sight or a vein that listens, a family member who knows or understands. And so now, in full confinement, we need more than ever to be connected to society's problems and to adopt fast and effective policy measures. And that is why we will also vote in favour of the law. This decree, as explained, has its origin in the Law of the Right of Women to Eliminate Masclist Violence and effectively guarantees that right to receive compensation from all women, therefore, that they believe bodily injuries, difficult-character psychics as a consequence of masclist violence, and also of the violence that may have affected their children. It is therefore intended to facilitate the recovery and full repair of women who have suffered male and female violence. Therefore, this decree law, with all the criticisms that Members and Members can make, does it extend and facilitate this compensation. And I think it's important, because there were only 20 thousand complaints in 2019 and, as I say, more than 1,500 court cases. Only a dozen women have had the right to exercise this service and so what this decree does is extend it. How does it expand? So, man, we know that the law decree won't eradicate male violence or solve all the problems, but it does allow these women a new opportunity to regain their opportunity to live, so after they've suffered this situation. In fact, when we speak of this decree, the Greuges syndic has ruled in a report in which he effectively asked to expand and facilitate this administration. And with what? There are basically four aspects, which I believe the law decree will ultimately have to deal with in legislation, and I therefore believe that Mrs Geli, who is the one who carries the themes of male violence, will be happy to be able to work with the different parliamentary groups to improve this law decree. The first flaw, isn't it? , the difficulties, it was how to believe the sequels. The sequences, in this decree, what is done is basically that you can believe through technical reports, meths or well of the SIES, and therefore I believe that it is good because if it is easy to credit it will be much easier to grant these compensations and therefore I believe that it is a point of better that brings this decree to you. Second, it eliminates – which also refers to the counselor – the requirement for accreditation of the first-hand renders. Third, the time limit for compensation is also reduced. The fourth, which I think is very important, is to enhance the knowledge of this right. You're referring to the fact that with the law's decree, it's forcing you to give this information. I think it's very important, because it certainly didn't get enough of the existence of this right on the part of women who, unfortunately, suffer male violence. I also believe that this decree cannot dissociate itself from the assumptions we will adopt today. When part of the parliamentary opposition groups were talking about the assumptions and the lack of control, about what has happened to this decree with this economic performance..., so the assumptions that we will adopt today are proposals that have a global view of policies against male violence, for the first time. And so, when some say that there is no control, we will vote in favour of this decree because, for example, with male violence, what the Catalan Institute of Donations does is increase its presumption by 33,2_per_cent. It's more than 2,6_million, and it increases to about 20_million euros in the budget. Or when they talked about the need, which is not enough with the phone for attention to male violence, so with this new premise we can open up eight specialized intervention services and fifteen floors bridge for women who suffer male violence. And, finally, I wanted to end up sharing with you an academic article and a few verses for hope. An academic article by a doctor – Dr. Moriana – who is a specialist in the field of male violence, who wrote the reflection of what are the effects of confinement with male violence. And he explained that in his day to day the women take advantage to go to sleep at the same time that the children, before the aggressor returned home to avoid finding himself. But in these days of confinement they can't even do that to defend themselves. These are some of the negative effects of the existence of confinement. And when it comes to saying that Covid-19 has to make us a better society, I hope that this better society also serves to break up with this masculinist and patriarchal society. And when he also gave a few verses for hope, and also for all the women who listen to us and who are confined, some verses of Rupi Kaur, translated by Bel Olid, who speak of community and hope. And they say, "When the world does, it doesn't matter if you ask me to stick your trossets in. If they are to share joy when all is well, we can, without a doubt, share your pain. Junts' women for Catalonia are here and we will never leave you alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.164.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Once the debate is over, and as you know, these two decrees are to vote together with the remainder at the end of the debate in a vote that will not, in any case, be before three-quarters of the late. [[Decree-Law No 5/2020 of 12 March 2010 amending Law No 29/2010 of 3 August 2010 from the use of electronic media in the public sector of Catalonia]] [[203-00030/12]] We are now on the agenda, and the third point is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 5/2020, of March 12, amending Law 29/2010, of August 3, from the use of electronic media to the public sector of Catalonia. To defend him, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. The Councillor of the Presidency Thank you, President. Good day, deputies, deputies, members of the government – vice president, in this case. I am speaking on behalf of the Government of Catalonia to present the Decree Illi 5/2020, of 12 March, amending the Law 22/2010, of 3 August, from the use of electronic media to the public sector of Catalonia. Since Law 29/2010, which develops the model of electronic administration, the use of electronic media is well implemented, they are fully operational and with the necessary guarantees. Despite this, we needed to have a legal instrument that makes it possible for the government to meet telematically and that all agreements that are made without being fully valid. And before the emergence of Covid-19, the Government of the Generality has adapted and we have done so immediately. In fact, the same day we closed the schools, on March 12th, this decree was published by law in order to guarantee the functioning of the Government of Catalonia in this context, truly extraordinary, of confinement. An extraordinary context that explains the reasons for urgency that justify the need to validate this initiative. On the one hand, the Covid-19 pandemic, which has been declared by the World Health Organization as a situation which, without any doubt, can be classified as extraordinary and so that urgent action can be taken – or should be taken –. And, on the other hand, the need for the government to be able to take all those necessary measures before situations of collective risk of catastrophes and public calamities, as has been the case with this pandemic situation that is affecting our society. That is why, in order to follow the health recommendations of physical distance and confinement from this pandemic, we have been forced to work from the distance. Telematic means have also helped us to get closer to the citizen and citizens of Catalonia and have helped us to approve and implement new regulations, regulations, agreements or decrees, which we are presenting today. But we have not only regulated in the realm of government. Another area in which we have regulated, for example, is in the months of contract, which can be gathered without face-to-face assistance while respecting the transparency required by the Public Sector Contract Law. Or for the sake of transparency, we have regulated that requests for access to public information can only be submitted by telematic means. Or in the specific area of cooperatives, where the validity of the agreements adopted can be achieved by using telematic means. In fact, the import and need of telematic means can also be seen in many agreements and actions that, like the Government, we have at these times, and I will continue to call some of them. In the university sphere, for example, where after Holy Week it is possible to resume classes in a virtual way. Or another activity in the field of education, which helps us all students, especially those who do not have sufficient means, can follow the course, as is happening at these times, with this distribution of more than 22,000 electronic and connectivity devices. Or for example the approval, at the beginning of this month, of the Orfeu program of massive detection of the Covid-19, with the objective of being able to complement the ability of the health system to have diagnostic tests for the coronavirus. With this Orpheus program they intend to carry out 170,000 new tests in six weeks thanks to the collaboration of all scientific and research parks in our country. This is just a bunch of agreements and actions that the government has urgently implemented so that it can continue to guarantee all the services and resources that citizens require thanks to telematics, digitalization and technology. Because if there's one thing clear, it's that without the telematics media, from the government, we couldn't have approved a whole set of measures to get in front of this pandemic over the Covid-19. And these are precisely these measures, all these emergency decrees approved for the government in a telematic way and which we are bringing to Parliament today, the best explanation and the best justification for the importance of the approval of this Decree Law 5/2020. For example, in the field of salvation, we have also been able to decree the gratuity of 061, or measures in the matter of death, and we guarantee a maximum price depending on the service to be offered to users, and ensure that it is never higher than the price before the pandemic. Or, for example, another key sector where we have been able to regulate different measures, thanks to digital means, has been access to public transport and we have been able to decree free of charge to all essential workers during the total confinement stage that was produced from March 30 to April 9. Or in the local world, making it possible to dictate standards or administrative acts of suspension or execution of contracts – an environment, certainly, that of the local world, where coordination is essential to be able to emerge from the effects of this pandemic. In fact, thanks to the telematics route, we were able to adopt different essential measures for the country's march during this pandemic, not only in terms of services and contracts, but also in budgetary, financial and fiscal matters, such as the increase in the payment of the Generality's taxes, such as inheritance tax and donations, property tax, tourist tax or sugar beet tax, or the reduction of the water canon by 50_percent. We have also allowed local administrations and their co-legitimate bodies to hold telematic sessions as well. Or the use of the contingency fund to meet the costs of the health bill, as a consequence of the Covid-19; or the line of up to 1,000_million euros that have been activated through the Catalan Institute of Finance and Validation for the purpose of valuing all the loans that the funded entities lend to small and medium-sized enterprises and thus be able to provide them with liquidity. From these initials, and more, they will be expanded in the following information, at the next point of the order of the day, Vice President Aragonès. Finally, what we have done with this decree is to adapt our institutions to the 21st century, some institutions that – as I said to the principle – already used digital media, but which, in the face of a cause of force majeure, we have had the need to give validity and legality to all agreements approved in a telematic way, as happens in this very plenary session of this Parliament, which, for the first time, today, uses this way. In fact, as you know, also in the administrative district, we were already in the process of incorporating a new labour policy where time flexibility and teletreball were fundamental tasks. Well, that had to be accelerated, and I profit, therefore, to thank and value the ability and adaptation and effort of all public workers before this new situation. As you see, there are many reasons why we ask them today to vote in favour of the validation of this Decree Law 5/2020. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.165.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, we will move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups. To set its position, this turn of intervention, according to the Board of Spokesmen, will be of a maximum time of seven minutes for the parliamentary group and sub-groups. It has the word, first, I place the deputy Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.166.0	Thank you, President; Members, Members, Councillors. Well, first of all, my memory of the victims of this horrible pandemic and all my recognition of the health workers, who are walking by cannon day after day. Also workers in other sectors, such as agriculture, transport or cleaning, or, ultimately, all those who have not stopped so that we can continue with our lives and do not lack the most basic. Today the Government brings us a decree that supposedly aims to allow the sessions of the Government and the technical councils to be thematic in certain serious situations that, as we are seeing, can happen. In the face of a situation, of course, like the one we find ourselves in, because this decree can have its logic. We, in fact, in Citizens, believe that institutions and politicians should set an example and be the first to adapt to these situations. We saw it clearly from the beginning and we were one of the first to hold telematic meetings or try to work from home. The rest of the groups, all of them, know that they are doing so too, we have been able to verify this in the meetings we have already had with the Government, in the meetings of spokespersons or in the committees we have already had telematically. And what do they propose to us in this Decree of Law? You propose in this Decree that the Government of the Generalitat be authorized to set up, convene and hold sessions; to adopt agreements and forward acts at a distance when situations of force majeure or serious collective risk, catastrophe and public calamities occur, although they do not say very clearly who will determine when these circumstances occur; or they also say that in the sessions that are held at a distance the members of the Government may find themselves in different places in the Catalan territory, although they do not say how they will secure it, or that the electronic means employed guarantee the safety of the participants in the meetings. Well, any of these measures, of course, may be fine, but allow us to create doubts; allow us to do so. They may be fine – I don't say no – and the truth is that setting up contingency measures and plans for situations like this is not only manageable, but desirable in any parliament. And I say 'in any parliament' because this is not 'any parliament'. This, all this would be normal in a parliament where we were in a normal situation, but here we are not in a normal autonomous parliament or a government that we can say is in normal conditions. We are in a parliament where in recent years some things have happened that make us, at least, suspicious. Things, the most serious, like trampling on the rights of all of us and more than half of the Catalans. And when they have not come to trample completely, because they have brought decrees, resolutions and all kinds of initiatives simply to seek, at least, confrontation with the State. They've done many things already; too many. They have done so much that in this debate, which should be so simple, I suspect that our group will not be the only one to be suspicious of these very basic measures. Because this decree, which is formally sensible, because what we believe is that for what will serve them is to continue fantasizing with the possibility of telematic investments and governments that jump to their liking the will of all the citizens of Catalonia, which is represented in the whole of this Parliament. And I don't want them to say that they're unfounded suspicions, that I'm sure that's what they're thinking, because they have nothing unfounded. Everyone knows, you know, that you have a relationship, the least complicated, with new technologies. Instead of putting them at the service of health, or reducing bureaucracy, or education – which would have gone very well for us, and the truth is that it is being embarrassing how it has reacted in education – instead, you have put the technologies at the service of the design of a digital republic that is not going to be. That's what they've done to them. And on the way to that design of that digital republic, they have again trampled upon the rights of the majority of Catalans. So you will understand that this Parliamentary Group has its reservations before its decree when in Catalonia personal data from all Catalans have been stolen, for example, to call an illegal referendum, which for the only thing it served was to divide us. You will understand that this parliamentary group also has its reservations when, precisely, Mr Puigneró's CTTI was a collaborator of that illegality. And you will understand that we have reservations to vote in favour of your decree when we have been asking you for a long time to put the new technologies at the service of the citizenry and not at the service of the process. I think you are going to understand it perfectly, and those who are sure to understand it are all those citizens who have seen their rights trampled on over and over again. And perhaps we would not be so suspicious, perhaps we would not be saying this if in this crisis, which should have put aside our differences, because you would have stopped surprising us day after day with your statements and your insanity. Gentlemen of the Government, my colleague Lorraine has already told you: I think it is time for you to stop listening to the opposition and start doing things differently, because doing politics with the opposition – which represents more than half of Catalonia's citizenship – is not only possible, but better. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.167.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Ferran Pedret, Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.168.0	Thank you, Counsellor, Vice-President, Members, Members. I want to add, first of all, to the sympathy shows, which have been given at length throughout the session, to the victims of this pandemic, and I also want to add to the recognition shows in conjunction with the healthcare staff, but I would also like to extend them to the groups of the country's workers and workers, and I would say that when they come home, they can do so and, therefore, help to fight this pandemic. And, therefore, also a recognizance of the civic heart of so many people who with so much responsibility are helping to stop the spread of the virus. That said, the Government brings to the chamber the validation of Decree Law 5/2020, which makes a timely modification of the law of the use of electronic media consisting, basically, in adding an additional provision, the dotzena, which allows, enable, on the part of the Government as well as the technical council, the holding of non-in-face sessions, and, moreover, does well – from our point of view – or reasonably well, those circumstances which suppose the assumption of enabling fact; it is said – already made reference, both on the part of the council and on the part of the spokesman of the Ciutadans Group – in cases of force majeure, of catastrophe, of calamity, of difficult public risk. Another thing is that – as Ciutadan's spokesman also pointed out – a few, perhaps, hold the doubt of whether it would be more appropriate to specify what was the way to objectify the attendance of this assumption of fact enabling, but in any case, it seems reasonable as it has been in these circumstances, which, in the present case and in the case that is actually at the origin of this discussion, I believe are by all means known and of absolute consent. In the second term, as is normal, what does the decree and, therefore, this additional provision, is also to establish who are the circumstances in which these non-in-face sessions are to be developed and, therefore, who are the guarantees for the maintenance of the quorum of the session, in order to be able to identify how the persons participating in the session correspond, in order to guarantee the content of the manifestations that these persons participating in the session emit and, also, the time at which they are present, and also a series of guarantees respecting the, let us say, the technical requirements for the interaction and simultarity of the debates, as well as – and I believe that it is reasonable – accompanying the presence of the members of this organization in the meetings of the participants in the catal territories. And, therefore, with this set of conditions, or circumstances, or guarantees, we understand that it is reasonable that we should have made a timely amendment of Articles 28 and 29 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and of the Government, which, in any case, we do not think, at all events, that we might have considered, but it seems from our parliamentary group – and, therefore, not to be an impediment to the validation of this decree – which can be guaranteed at all times, and especially in exceptional circumstances as we live, the continuity of the institutions and, therefore, also the continuity of the tasks of the power executed, in this case, of the Government of Catalonia. And, really, that's what I think we're calling for, and we're celebrating – I think – that this decree can be validated, because we understand that, beyond the preventions or precautions that some parliamentary group can have, it's all necessary that, in the current circumstances, it guarantees the continuity of the tasks of the execution, because – I mean – it all has nothing to do with the political differences that parliamentary groups can have, but it's that the executing power can exercise its responsibility, it can do its functions in the common interest of the citizens and the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.169.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Next is the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.170.0	Many thanks, president; councillor, deputies and deputies. This decree addresses an anomaly that we are experiencing these months, and it is that there are many people who are confined to their home, suspected celebrations of face-to-face gatherings – then we will discuss some decrees that carry this suspension to sports gatherings, to communities, etc. – and we have governments and we have different bodies, such as the technical council, which, of course, must be able to lead the country, must be able to coordinate a response and must be able to do so via telematics. So far, our legislation has not allowed it, and it is clear that it is necessary to enable some mechanism so that the Government can operate with some normality or with the greatest normality possible and that, therefore, it can guarantee the continuity of the institution and its viability and its coordination capacity. And so far, we really do share this need fully and share a foundational element. We knew that this decree was a bit of a treat at the time to put on the table certain debates about, say, the digital republic, telematic investments, etc. But we are grateful that, in this situation, a decree has been made that it is a priest, that it is a legal solution, that it is concrete and that it seeks to solve a concrete and timely problem of an emergency situation, because we understand that in this situation the source is not, let's say, all these debates that we have been flushing, but also have the ability to be resolved at a given time, to be able to give concrete solutions to the table and to avoid that every passing we do not make more noise than those problems that we want to solve. And I think this decree does it, and it does it for various dimensions. First, because it limits exceptionality. That is to say, the telematic function of the Government, the Technical Council or this very Parliament, which today is practically empty, is exceptional. And it is an exceptionality that must be justified by a major cause, by a pandemic and a health emergency like this case, by any other cause of major force that may be there in the future; that the deliberations of the Government must take place in national territories, because it is the National Government of Catalonia, and that it must therefore guarantee the integrity of communications, the confidentiality of deliberations – how to guarantee normality, huh? – identification of the persons involved, etc. And, therefore, we will support the validation of this decree and we appreciate its presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.171.0	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Next is the return of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.172.0	Thank you very much. Before, the intervention made by our companion, the companion Maria Sirvent, wanted to convey to the assembly of the Catalan society the maximum condolences for all the victims that occurred in the last weeks. Also the maximum ascent to their families and, as it cannot be otherwise, also this escalph for all those and all those who today are fighting in the most direct way for life, in the most appropriate sense. I wanted to – or wanted to – also take advantage of this intervention to make another recognition, another recognition as much or more important as what has been done: recognition for the workers and the workers who today are guaranteeing to the rest of the society that we can work. Now is a time to see that this society can function perfectly without those who only see corporate dividends, but that it is a society that cannot live, that does not work, without the workers and without the workers. And I'd like to extend a little more. First, great recognition for the workers and workers of the health system. Certainly, we ask the government – also the rest of the groups, but specifically for the government – to listen to what they give today at 20 o'clock, at 8 o'clock on the evening, the workers and workers of the Hospital Clínic, in their concentration; the workers and workers of the socio-sanitary centers, who are having a battle that goes beyond what is a job or what is work. They and they don't want us to talk about them and them as heroes, but obviously this isn't just a job. The workers and workers who provide us with food in all their forms; workers and workers, all these and all those who obviously know that they do not fully guarantee all the risks before the break of their health; workers and transport workers in all their forms; workers and workers, for example, of the taxi, taxi drivers at other times so criminalized and that these days are not only going out to work in an organized way, as the specific regulations make it, but there is a group of workers and workers who do a solid activity without charging and who bring to the health services those people who need it, and who also bring together the health system so that we do not have any more collapsing. I leave many collections, certainly many, that deserve a specific recognition, but there is one that we would not want to forget: that of the stutterers and the stutterers. The workers and the workers who fly from the ports carry and unload the goods, that they are trying to get us health products as food, and that the more we want them to make a more specific recognition to that of a port, that it is the port of Barcelona, that they are not only going to work with the perception that they will never be able to have the absolute guarantee that they do not have any risk of salvation, but also of the charges and unloads that signify health material and essential material, are giving what they would suppose for their entrances. Today, the sum of 150,000 euros transferred to the Generalitat de Catalunya, because it is the Generalitat de Catalunya that determines which is the greatest need that is in the current context of the Covid. The stowers and stowers in this country have been an example of how to negotiate. They have been examples, through the most powerful waves that have been donated to the length of our country's history, and today there are absolute examples of how to work for the vines, in the pit, and also in the candil – as some or some of them say in other places – and also in the bank. The springs will always be ours! It is possible that now there is a deputy or a deputy who says: "And what relationship does this have to the decree? So, look, for us he also has a direct relationship, and above all he has made clear to us the intervention of the spokesperson, who explained to us what could have been done with a telematic authority of the government meetings. So what we have to say to you is, first, that every government meeting – we ask them to do – makes a specific recognition to a collection of workers and workers. Not only through the media, but with the record, I put it there, because this gives strength, gives energy and, moreover, it is an exercise in social justice. And we only ask them this, because it gives us the feeling that what it is to recognise the rights of public workers and public workers, they will not do so; they will not do so this late, when they do not vote for the workers and subcontractors to have a guaranteed salary of 1,259 euros; they do not do so in relation to the interim and interim staff they have or have in the Catalan public sector; they do not do so in relation to the job stability of public sector workers and workers. As a matter of fact, if they don't do all this – which they could do – then they do to others, this specific recognition to the workers and workers who, today, are trying to make the little that works for our society, so it works. And for the concrete assumption of the decree that today is the door to validation, in the first place we also wanted to make it clear that the title of the decree and what it then regulates is not exactly coincident. It is not exactly coincidental because the title of the decree refers to "electronic media in the Catalan public sector, and in this decree only refers to what the government and the technical council do. Therefore, clarify this. And it's very different, because, look, the government and the technical council have enough media, but we have to say that some workers and some workers in the Catalan public sector, today, don't have all the electronic media needed to telework, and that's why it's more important. And on the exact content of the decree, look, on the first point – or rather, on the single article – that is modified the first subpartate, which refers to the objective causes that can allow these government meetings to take place. We agree, because it is done in an objective way. It is posed, for a band, calamity, and, therefore, it is objectively situated; it is posed catastrophes, it is placed collective risk and it is also placed the reference of force majeure. For the second subpart, also that which establishes that "there will be to be able to determine the identity of the participants; for the third subpart, that which refers to that "it must be compatible that there can be no interference from third parties, for a band, but at the same time, also that everyone can participate, and in the manner in which government meetings are usually held, which are secret" – in case someone wanted to speculate about this secret, this is the usual way of almost all governments of the world. And lastly, in which he refers to the quarter below, we also agree, because he extrapolates these three agreements for which the technical council is expected. And that's why we're going to take a positive vote today for the validation of this decree. But we want to give another reflection to the government groups: it will be the only positive vote that today the CUP - Crida Constituent will do over everything that the government brings us, and, therefore, make the timely reflection of what it means that the rest of us will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.173.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragonese. Next is the turn of MP Esperanza García, of the Subgroup of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.174.0	Well; thank you, President; deputies, deputies, councillor. The crisis situations obviously require exceptional solutions and measures. I believe that in this we will practically agree to all the parliamentary forces represented here. You're obvious, aren't you? , that the data of deaths and also of us contagion remain alarming. Of us contagion, I speak, though we are confined home from practically two months ago, and we understand the fact of trying to avoid face contact and face meetings as far as possible, right? And that, indeed, this government has had an additional problem, which has been two positives for Covid, both from the vice president and the president, and we find it reasonable..., three. [[The joker laughs.]] And we find it reasonable, therefore, that these face-to-face meetings should be avoided. That's not how Mr. Sanchez's government did it, but we think it's a good example to avoid it, right? And in this measure, then, we'll agree. And then we find it reasonable that they carry this decree, they have also made it from other autonomous communities. We think it's a good stretch to try to minimize this risk, this contact and this infection, and so we'll abstain. And why should we abstain from voting in favour of it? So why is it true that you have a history that is undeniable, that is to make you serve strides or tools, supposedly, that facilitate democratic life just to the contrary, to abuse democracy and to subdue those tools to their party interests. And this is a reality that has not occurred in other autonomous communities, that I did say, I would advise, therefore, that they have made their decree and that there has been no problem, no suspicion and no lack of confidence on the part of the opposition, which here is happening to us. And, in fact, it happens precisely with this decree and it does not, for example, with parliamentary committees, with doormen's meetings, with the Bureau meetings that we are holding; it also happened to us in its moment when you decided that part of the public office in Catalonia has made use of the telematic tools; we believe that it is good, and that in the end, therefore, it can help us minimize the damage and loss of human lives that this crisis is causing us. Now, these doubts, then, are present. We can't deny them. You have made use of the tools to get only your political files instead of achieving more efficiency, more and better public service for the citizenry, and there are many present at Puigdemont's telematical investiture... finally, the digital republics of Mr Puignero, and this is the motive for which we will abstain. We only have a little confidence in seeing that within this decree you are referring to the major force, to the fact that every meeting that is called, necessarily, will have to be motivated; it seems good to us. And the extent of the Catalan territory... well, it remains absolutely clear, doctrinally, which is the Catalan territory, obviously, which is a supposition or not of major force and, therefore, we believe that this certainty that you do not transmit to us this doctrine, peaceful, clear and absolutely transparent. And therefore, they understand that these are exceptional moments, we will not oppose them, but we will abstain from this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.175.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next is the return of Congresswoman Marta Vilalta, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.176.0	Thank you very much. I wanted to take advantage of this moment to thank the staff and professionals who are in the grip of this crisis, as well as the people who love the most basic and essential services in the country, as well as the workers and the workers and professionals here in Parliament who today allow us to be realizing this full with the best of conditions. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Government and to show it our support, as well as to convey confidence: Vice-President, Councillor, to extend it to the rest of the Government and to the President, obviously; as I said, to convey this confidence to know that everything is being given at a time of maximum crisis, not only to our country at the global level, and it is being given, unfortunately, to hold hands tied to the agenda because of the state and its decisions of re-centralisation, its decisions of attribution of competences that have obstructed the ability to deploy the best of policies and the best of tools to the service of citizens. And that I think can't be overlooked in the debates we're having here today, or in the debates we're going to have in the future, or even in the moment of accountability, because we'd be wrong. It's done the best it can, we recognize them the great task they are doing in the face of this crisis, despite the decisions of the State that have been an obstacle to being able to do the best work. And I think we need to be able to say it and we need to be able to explain it. About the decree we're debating. You're right, aren't you? , addressing the validation of the decree that enables to hold – as has already been explained – meetings of government and technical council in a telematic way, in situations of exceptionality and urgent need. A debate in which, in a normal, ordinary situation, my company Jordi Albert would be intervening here, but go, therefore, this reference of the team work that we are making today the deputies of the Republican Group. The situation we are living in these days has captivated the daily life, it has put a stop to time, to say the least, has changed our lives – and those of the world, for sure. We are experiencing a health crisis that is already humane and that, if it is not now, will also end up feeling an economic crisis and a social crisis. In this situation, and therefore, an exceptional phase in which we are incarcerated, in addition to protecting people and protecting the health system in order to avoid col·lapse, we have to adapt. And everyone did it: families, businesses, work, home..., and so must public institutions, public administrations, and, if you want, press the accelerator. As background information, and the Counsellor explained it very well, the law that this decree amends is the law that the Generality has legal instruments to be able to deploy the electronic administration. And that's been going on since the year 2010. So, there's a question that hadn't been done until now because it was unnecessary. And it is because of its deliberate and decision-making nature, the meetings of the government and also of the technical council as well as the organ that gives it support in orderly situations, these are always held face-to-face, because it is the best way to do it. There are other companies that have spoken before, they explained it. All right. Now we are not in an ordinary situation but precisely the exceptional and urgent situation and the need for constant government meetings, and also technical advice, during this pandemic, is what made us make this decision, it is what made the government decide to adapt these meetings face-to-face and orderly in a telematic way. And why? So because the priority, at this point, is that government action is not going on. On the contrary, to be able to give an immediate response, if in a daily way, to all the needs that are required for the approval of decrees, to approve measures and to put them on the market. It is, in fact, absolutely essential that in cases of force majeure like the current ones, the Government can take these decisions in the best way – and in this case it is at a distance – that they can hold the valid necessity, that they are sure, obviously, and more taking into account, as we say, that the Government is the higher collegiate organ that directs the political action of our country and that, moreover, it also has competences in the field of civil protection. Therefore, it still has more sense than ever before that in exceptional situations it is possible to make these decisions. It is more, we have seen, of fruits, and we have already seen decisions taken by the Government, since the first day, that have allowed decrees and that today we are debating its validation, economic measures, social measures, and that are destined, as always, to help and improve the life of the citizenry, which are destined for the people of this country, and before Councilwoman Budo did not make a rest. Allow me, before I finish, to make some reflections, because I think they are also opportune. The same way we adapt to circumstances, and as we are doing, we need to be able to guarantee the best of conditions and also the legal framework of the Government in its adoption of the agreements. And, therefore, we consider that this measure that reverses this decree is a measure in exceptional situations as we are living. Because, precisely, the importance of the government's deliberations and the decisions it takes, if possible, and also to ensure its security, normality must be able to be face-to-face as it had been until now. A second reflection: the crisis that we are experiencing has served to speed up many processes – before we talked about it too – and changes that we have to take quickly as the need has made it possible for us. Well, then, we think we have to go on this line. We need to take advantage of all the tools to continue implementing the electronic administration to the cent_per_cent, to adapt the institutions. Yes, indeed, all, but also to make this adaptation good. Proof of this, of this adaptation of all institutions, is also not the same Parliament of Catalonia. And let me make a point: there are those who can believe or make believe the opposite, but the Catalonian Parliament is also leading this new technological revolution that we have been working on, worthy of the present time. Board of Spokesmen, Bureau, telematically, we have seen telematic commissions, we have seen appearances of members of the Government and of the President of the Generality... Therefore, thanks to this leadership of the presidency of Parliament and of the joint effort of all the information services, today we also have a telematic vote, a good one that, with urgency and speed, has been put into practice so that today you are available, as well as the way of the delegation of the vote. But I wanted you to adapt us and adapt us well. And, in this sense, therefore, my parliamentary group has defended that for those questions such as, for example, the plenary telematics, these will be able to work and make possible through joint questioning, through the maximum consensus and ensuring legal certainty of deliberations and agreements and decisions. And I can't be making a reference to those who see fantasies where there isn't. Do they know it's not virtual or telematic? He repressed her that she exists. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] In this country, the result of a general case against independence, which some tolerate and even celebrate. So, we have to do it, we have to do it right, and we ask for support in this validation of the decree that allows us to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.178.0	...to step forward and put technology in the service of citizenship and also in the service of rights and not the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.179.0	Finally, it's the turn of Deputy Gemma Geis, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.180.0	Well, good morning, Speaker of Parliament, Councilwoman Budó, Members of Parliament, those who are present in the Chamber, but also Members and Members who follow us at this parliamentary session. And this consideration today is no less, because we are amending with this decree the Law of 29/2010, from the use of electronic media in the public sector of Catalonia. And as it has been said, this decree reads what it does is to modify the legal regime so that the government and the technical council can hold sessions in a valid way, that is to say, it gives legal coverage given the pandemic situation. With the reform it is established that it will be necessary to justify the situations of force majeure or of heavy risk collected, catastrophes and public calamities in order to hold these sessions at a distance, with the maximum guarantees of identity, interactivity and intercommunication of its members. From Juntos per Catalunya we will give the support, because we have always defended that the governance of the institutions, whether it is the Parliament of Catalonia or the Generality, must incorporate the use of electronic media. Analog is an outdated concept. Governance, in the 21st century, must also be a digital reality, and it is not only possible to govern through telematic media but also necessary. How it was possible and necessary to give justice to the Supreme Court of the United States or to do full telematics as it did to the British Parliament. And now they're defending him as well as political forces with Ciutadans, who until now are dealing with digital thugs and telling us to live in Matrix. "It is not understood that we are here in this full ghost, when the companies meet telematically, The Board of Spokesmen celebrates telematically, even the Constitutional Court and one of the oldest parliaments in the world will also hold telematic sessions. Do you know who said that? His spokesman to the Congress, the deputy of Citizens, Edmundo Bal. Therefore, it also defends the progress and modernity here in the Parliament of Catalonia. In fact, today, for the first time in history, in the Parliament of Catalonia we will vote telematically, and only the deputies and deputies of Junts for Catalonia, without any doubt, is a way to connect with the U of October and claim it. From here on, we also want to make a reassessment of the technical services of the Catalan Parliament, because in a few days they have demonstrated and made an excellent task, and they have shown that it was possible, many thanks; proving that voting telematically is not a technical question, it was and is a question of political will. So are the full telematics. President Tora always claims to speak from the truth, and from the truth we have to say that we have not had enough political support to do so before, that is the truth. In fact, a few months ago, together for Catalonia, he presented a motion that defended the implementation of the electronic vote in union elections to the Government of Catalonia, and we had to withdraw it because we didn't have the support to approve it. Months later, unfortunately, we find ourselves with the arrival of the Covid and we are forced to make telematic appearances and to vote telematically. Now the world is governed, it is directed and it is communicated through the new communication tools, and this in no case prevents a balance between technology and face-to-face. We have at our head the Parliament of Pau Casals, that Parliament of pau that today evolves towards a telematic Parliament. Political Catalanism has always been a driving force for modernity and that is why we should not give up our tradition and should lead the new forms of communication for which it leads this modernity. The Administration must be in the service of technology to defend democracy, because democracy cannot be confined. And today, Councilwoman of Budo, we also wanted to convey the tribute to the Government, because the Government of the Generality is of the few governments that donate teletreball percentage data to its public servers, with a 65_per_cent. And therefore, we see that, despite this efficiency that has been demonstrated by the use of the new technologies, there are parliamentary groups that criticise the increase of the parties to the CTTI, or that you presumably have the public optical fiber network throughout the Catalan territory. These days I was listening with amazement as there are those who are concerned about the guarantees of telematic voting, and I ask them: were they not worried about the guarantees from the first day of this legislature, with Members and Members in prison? Where were your concerns about the guarantees with the undertakings of the presidential candidates to the Generality as Councillor Turull? Don't you now worry about the guarantees when the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court hold telematic sessions? Don't worry, these guarantees, now? The guarantees are in Europe and there they deny them the extraditions. Do they have their own contradictions? From Junts per Catalunya we denounce their attitude, because when we talk about democratic guarantees we talk about guaranteeing respect for the election results, such as the European elections. And I just asked the European Court of Justice. Or we talk about guarantees when President Forcadell, the President of Parliament and the Bureau are in prison and charged. Some Members of Parliament, as well as some Members, are concerned about the pressure to vote telematically from home. And I ask them: aren't there pressure and you threaten the charges of rebellion by judge Llarena, deputies and deputies? That wasn't a threat, and to vote telematically is there a threat? The members of Parliament's Bureau accused and the courts of accounts, aren't these threats? And we have to vote telematically on the threats we can keep at home. Home... Don't they worry that they can track the mobile without judicial authorization, those who talk about guarantees? We want to be useful to Catalan society, and the most important thing is to rule well. And it's about ruling with democracy and taking advantage of all the technology as they're doing together in Catalonia, regional councils, congresses, from proximity to the citizen. And, paradoxically, "near today also means doing it telematically. That's why we support the decree because the government can successfully hold its sessions at a distance. Because the most important thing is to guarantee political action, it is to guarantee democratic action that guarantees the rights and freedoms of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.181.0	Thank you, Mrs. Geis. The debate ended, as agreed to by the Board of Spokesmen, so I guess the vote on the validation of this decree will be to finish the joint debate of points 4 to 8 of the order of the day, approximately three-quarters of three. [[Accumulated Law Decrees]] [[203-00031/12, 203-00032/12, 203-00033/12 and 203-00035/12]] Let us now turn to item 4 of the order of the day, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 6/2020, of March 12, of urgent measures in the matter of care, supposition, financing, fiscal and public contract, in order to mitigate the effects of the pandemic generated by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. According to the Board of Spokesmen, the record that it will be a joint debate with points 5, 6 and 8 of the agenda relating to the validation of Decree Law 7/2015, of 17 March, Decree Law 8/2020, of 24 March, and Decree Law 10/2020, of 27 March. The parliamentary groups and sub-groups will have 15 minutes each to make their intervention. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will speak to explain the reasons for which the decrees have been issued. The first word is Vice President Pere Aragonés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.182.0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament's Bureau, first of all, my first words in this chamber cannot be more than expressing my condolences on behalf of the Government and in my own behalf to all the families and people, therefore, who have lost loved ones in the march of this coronavirus pandemic, and also wish, to all those who still find it difficult because of the disease, a rapid recovery. We are pleased that Parliament is meeting today to validate all the strategy expressed in these decrees that the Government of Catalonia has been developing before the emergence of a virus that has extraordinarily disrupted our lives, paralysed the world and generated the greatest impact on humanity in the past decades, in terms of collective survival. The emergence of a virus that we do not know and that we still do not have a vaccine to protect ourselves today - in fact, it has caused all countries, to a greater or lesser extent, to be hit by its extraordinary contagious capacity. And Catalonia was no exception. But there has also been an exception mobilising all the solidarity, all the strength, all the social commitment of a country that in difficult, difficult times, like the ones we are, gets the better of itself. We have all exercised our responsibilities firmly and decisively to try to help stop the pandemic, and starting, as it cannot be in any other way, for all health and care personnel, all the people who are in the hospital little by little ICU, little by little primary care center, little by little residence, to whom we would never be grateful for all the efforts of these months. Or the security bodies or the workers and workers of essential sectors, who in these weeks of confinement have taken care of trying to make our lives easier, that at a time when many hundreds of thousands of people in Catalonia were confined at home, we could continue to live thanks to the people who were working. Thanks, therefore, to the safety bodies and to the workers and workers of essential sectors, and also to all those who make..., therefore, extract the maximum of their equipment, of their knowledge have oriented their daily activities to a clear social compromise against the pandemic; thanks to the enterprises that have transformed their production, that have gone from making cars or components of automobiles to breathers; thanks to those enterprises that have also gone from manufacturing food packaging to making protective material for our health care workers and workers in the residential field. It is a clear display of the social commitment, of this collective empowerment that is contributing to facing the emergency situation that we are living. Everyone, therefore, has acted with great responsibility and with great solidarity; also the conjunction of the Catalan citizenry, and especially the inhabitants of the Conca d'Odena, who were the first to be affected by the toughest measures of confinement. To all Catalans and Catalans, we must aggravate their efforts, understand it, compromise to stay home, protect themselves, protect their own and thus stop the spread of the disease. If today's health care system is not erasing the tensions or prospects of possible collapsing a few weeks ago, if today we are fixing ourselves more in the number of clean cases than in the name of our contagion, if today we are beginning to talk about how we are doing this disconnection, it is thanks to this effort, to complicity, to the responsibility of all the citizens who have been home for more than forty days and only come from that essential. Thank you all. And thanks also to those who today are hard to hear: thanks to the children of our country who carry many days home making an extraordinary effort and doing so to take care of themselves and their family. The country is also in debt with our children and children. In this scene, the public powers cannot respond in any other way than doing everything possible to help the citizens of this country, our society, to make life easier in confinement. Each with the tools at your disposal, with absolute coordination and cooperation. And that's why I also want to recognize the great effort and dedication of local administrations – of assemblies, parliaments, councils – without which this country would not have gone out, and with which the Government of the Generality we have cooperated and are working arm to arm from the co-responsibility to overcome the enormous difficulties with which we are fighting. As we have also collaborated and coordinated, as far as they have been concerned, with the Government of the State. It is obvious that before an extremely complex situation, public institutions do not only have the opportunity to coordinate, but we have the obligation to do so. I would not like to go into polemics, but I do have to make it clear, and that is in the Minutes of Parliament, that we do not understand the decision of the Spanish Government to re-centralize competitions through the state of alarm; it is better from cooperation, from coordination, from work together with those who have the knowledge of the finalist service, with those who have knowledge and those who are close to the skills of hospital management. For this reason, we believe that the Government of the State should reconsider this decision, and therefore return to the Generality and also to the joint venture the skills that surround them, now that there is a need to begin to implement the decontainment. The priority, the objective of the Government of Catalonia is to tackle the difficult health crisis that we are experiencing and the social and economic consequences that they are already carrying today and that they will carry in the future. We are, therefore, taking steps to curb the spread of the pandemic with all the means at our disposal, which are not all that this country generates, but above all with all determination. For this reason, the Government of the Generality reacted quickly to the pandemic and was from the first administrations to take steps to respond to health, social and economic emergencies. We have acted with responsibility, with determination and not in reaction, taking the measures that we thought were appropriate and that were in our hands. Today I present and defend four decrees Law on behalf of the Government, which are an exhibition of the intense normative activity that we have been developing the last weeks; we have to make new laws and change laws. Yes, because the laws, which are the norms of social, economic behavior, administered in a society, when everything is changed, are to be adapted, and that is why we have done so through the decrees of the law. A few decrees that I can add to – apart from the four that I will defend today in this debate – three more that are about to bring to Parliament for its validation and that have already been approved in the last few days, which together set up an authentic legislative strategy based on three phases. First of all, to guarantee resources and capacities to deal with health emergencies. First objective, phase 1. Phase 2. Contributing to liquidity, therefore, money to butxaca, workers and entrepreneurs during confinement and off-the-shelf activity. Phase 3. To lay the foundations of human, social and economic reconstruction. With the decrees we have activated phase 1 and phase 2; therefore, resources for the health and care system and liquidity, money to the butxaca of entrepreneurs, workers and families during the time of the economic confinement of the country. Therefore, a first set in law decrees, which all consist of different chapters, and which, therefore, deal with very different themes. The presentation I will make of the measures is based, therefore, on these three objectives. Measures adopted to ensure resources for health emergencies. In the first place, we have prioritized the contingency fund of the Government of Catalonia for the Covid-19. In subsequent decrees, and which in the next weeks will validate the Parliament, we have also allowed the generation of presuppositional parties until the needs that we need to cover: everything that is needed, everything that is needed for the salvation of our country. And, for the time being, 106_millions of contingency funds have already been transferred to the Health Department. The regulatory capacity of the information systems, the obligation to process information of the Epidemiological Surveillance Service, has also been strengthened. Public interest has been expressed in the health work compatibility before Covid-19 to facilitate the incorporation of health personnel. We have had few health personnel and, therefore, we have enabled us to work in more than one place in an extraordinary way, which we can, therefore, incorporate, in the public sphere, health workers who did not work or those who also..., therefore, obviously, with the relevant security measures, those who had retired and also the resident doctors. We have also guaranteed the most wage productivity for the workers of the Catalan Institute of Health who had to pay on these dates and who were expected to pay to the Law of General Presumptions of Catalonia, which, if it had not been approved yet – which will be approved in the late days – we would have to guarantee it by decree. Measures have also been taken in the area of funeral services to put them under the direction of the Secretary of Public Health. Because we are obviously in a circumstance that is not normal either in terms of what funeral services have to do, to ensure the provision of the service and also to limit prices and to guarantee conditions worthy of funeral services to all citizens. The Emergence Contract has been enabled for essential services. The second block: measures to guarantee money to the workers' buttocks, families and businesses during confinement and reduction of activity. Measures that we have with the Government of Catalonia and that, therefore, as we have with them, we can also ask the Government of the State to do so, which has done it in part, but in many areas it has to do so. We have postponed the revenue of all taxes collected by the Government of Catalonia until the end of the state of alarm and, in some cases, as is the case with the state tax on tourist establishments, the tax on sugary beguds, thus accumulating in its own quarters the collection that is now to be produced, and, in the tax on inheritance and donations, also extending the deadline for the presentation of liquidations to facilitate all the delays that cannot be made at these times. The water canon has been reduced to certain collections while the alarm state lasts. The payment of the equivalent to the name of all the contracts of the Government of Catalonia has been guaranteed that due to the termination of the activity the execution of the contract has been suspected. Because we believe that it is the Government of Catalonia's obligation that those companies that we hire for support services, from clean services or the surveillance of buildings that today are locked up to others that mean a face-to-face service of the service that at these times are not coming to an end, we will not leave the workers of the services contracted for the Generality out of time. Therefore, we pay the equivalent of the names and a part of the fixed costs. In fourth place, within this second block, there has been the criteria for the guarantee prior to the service, not only from the public service portfolio of the Generality that we contract, but also those that are doing with concert or with subsidy in the field of social services, which you know is one of the important forms of the welfare state in our country. We have created a guarantee fund that covers the endorsements of Avalis and the Catalan Institute of Finance to swallow and lend up to 1,000_million euros to Catalan companies. An aid of up to two thousand euros has been established for self-employed people who have seen their activity reduced. The consideration of force majeure for the suspension of cultural events has been broadened. Apart from measures in these two axes, I repeat, in guaranteeing resources in the health field and, secondly, guaranteeing liquidity, money to the butxaca, to workers, families and businesses while the economic confinement lasts, because this will allow us to start recovery from a little higher, not from such a painful situation, we have taken other measures. We have taken organizational measures such as enabling the telematic celebration of plenary and other meetings of organs, assemblies and locals in Catalonia, as well as universities. And we've adapted the terms of the proceedings of sporting entities, together with owners, cooperatives, and, moreover, in these two cases, it has been enabled to do so by electronic means. But it is clear that, despite all these efforts, we need to be aware that the response to the socio-economic crisis that will come after this health crisis cannot be the same as the financial crises that we have had so far, because we find ourselves before an economic impact that does not originate in economic activity, but originates in an external shock to the economy. We have called for measures of great abst, of great impact, because all that we do not do now, all that we stop doing now will be problems for tomorrow, will be major difficulties in the already difficult phase of social and economic recovery, and that we must be able to start in parallel to overcoming the pandemic. What you're not doing today will be stones in tomorrow's motel. Therefore, it cannot pass us on to 2008, that at the level of economic institutions, also at the European and world level, it has reacted late and poorly. And this crisis can't happen to pay back the most vulnerable. We can't get out of this crisis more unequally. They can't have... a health pandemic becoming a social pandemic, not a genera. This must be our compromise. So now the important thing is to face the pandemic and be aware that returning to a new normality will be difficult, but it will be progressive. From this realism we must make a cry to the hope that the collective force gives us, that they give us the examples of all the people who are little or no ICU, who are little or no residence, who are from volunteering, from security and emergency services, from the companies that have converted their production, from the workers of the essential services and from the rest of the fields that have returned to the activity. These exhibitions, these examples, are the hope that the solidarity shows of these days show us that we are capable of overcoming it, that we obviously have no only hope, but only to put resources in the field of scientific research to make progress to overcome the coronavirus and that we must strengthen collective trust to overcome the difficult moments that we suffer and those that will come. For this collective trust is key, it is basic, this trust, to start recovery and above all, as I said before, so as not to leave anyone out of the way in the wake of the health crisis. We need to be stronger than society and with country structures that respond to the needs of a global world of which, at the moment, we only know about economic and environmental social challenges and are now patenting health threats. I am convinced that we will all be on the rise, that today, as we have already known, parliamentary groups will facilitate the validation of this decree. I want to thank them. I want to thank them for this political responsibility, and it will come more, we won't have to do more. We'll have to show more political responsibility. I am convinced, because what unites us, regardless of ideological and political views, that there will also be in these debates, unites us with a compromise with a much better humanity and, therefore, I am convinced that among all, and with the collective commitment that the country has demonstrated, we will get out again and out of building the foundations of a society and a better country, closer, more free for our children. Many thanks to all the Members and Members. We're at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.183.0	Thank you, Vice President. Next, we move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to set their position for a maximum of fifteen minutes. In the first place has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.184.0	Vice President, I'd like to speak from the escho.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.185.0	Yes, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.186.0	Well, thank you, President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Catalans and Catalans. In the first place, let's remember an obviousness, and it's after a decree like this, and made for a viral epidemic without precedent, there are people, there are citizens, there are families; there is patience, there is anguish and there is much pain. That's why my first words are eclectic and affect all the entries, the malalts, and a very special record to Catalans who, unfortunately, couldn't get over this last time, that the earth is taking them. And a message of special gratitude to health workers: effort, merit, surrender, solidarity. What an example! All the rest, too: pharmaceutical workers, food workers, safety workers, transport workers, the primary sector. Thank you for your work, thank you to all of you; we will get out of it. Of all colors, thank you very much. And thanks to the kids for all the effort you're making. With you at home, it's all worth it. Now we're debating a set of decrees in a format that doesn't allow drafts. Undoubtedly, in some other moments, we would make them, we would demand them, but we are aware of the exceptionality of the moment. It may be at the height of the challenge and the needs and compromise, with the totality of the decree, for a major fi. We debate and validate today four decrees followed that it might well be a one, as the only debate we make to speak of the four. The summary is that you present a set of measures to try to improve the management of the epidemic. And you're already getting all the support, but you missed the main measure, the most important, that was to update a premise that doesn't work, as it is, to overcome the epidemic. At the length of the decrees, you talk about financing, postponing taxes, more resources for the health system. And it is, therefore, a good time now to remind the chamber that if you recognize that you need to allocate more resources to the health system – and I don't think there is anyone in Catalonia who can think that the financing of the health system is correct – neither was it, nor is it, nor will it be with the assumptions that you are taking today to the vote, given that they are the same people that when we didn't know that we would have a deadly pandemic facing the health system. And it's that you can't spend the least and demand maximum sanitation. This is the best summary of the assumptions for the health system: you can't spend the minimum and demand maximum sanitation. If before this crisis, these assumptions were not good to ease the health system, you have not allocated a single euro to finance our healthcare structures better. They'll either explain to anyone who comes out on the balcony eight to clap or they'll already explain to the workers that they're leaving their hair for all Catalans, that you don't want a single euro for them. It is necessary to explain to the citizen that Ciutadans we have offered to work some new presuppositions of emergence that respond to the real health needs of Catalans. We've been offering your hands since the first day. My group did it, and I did it, today, again, at the morning control session. We've done it in public and many times in private as well. More extensive for some of us presuppositions of emergence to manage the outcome of this health crisis. More extensive for better assumptions for the health system and also to help not leave anyone behind, for a better social protection system and for residents. For whom they have lost their work, to help the Catalans not to lower their blind forever. We should get together to get out without letting anyone go. Once more, I offer our hand, now without as much hope as I had the last few days, but in any case, it follows the offer for the presuppositions of the current year which, unnegotiatedly, will have to give answer to all that argument. It is urgent to address measures to raise the public health system that has suffered an exceptionality without precedent, with great reorganizations and failing to do many of the things usually required and that will have consequences for the future. It's been days since I've been told to approach confined pathology, infarcts, cancers, depressions... And what you'll have to do when you're done with this. It is necessary to arrange and redirect all resources to fight the pandemic. No one would find the grate of the Administration missing. No one would miss the duplicities if we swallowed them. That's why I never forget the 824,000 patients who were already on the waiting list before the epidemic began; 824,000 patients, much more so now. I can think of all of them. Catalans who must be attuned to a comprehensive and offensive health system. Today we do not validate your proposal for payment to all entities of the Siscat and that would allow us, Vice-President, more than to put forward a similar formula to be able to implement and increase the name of PCR and serological tests per day. If you have decreed to attend to incoming patients – you have done so – then you could do the same to carry out tests that increase the entire structure of the care network and thus help the disengagement process. In other words, this extended hand also served to work folds in addition to efforts and pre-emptive ideas, and with always constructive intent. You've been spending all your resources, rooting out your ideologies, and doing well. But today this Parliament will not validate one of the decrees that address the big issue of the crisis for the coronavirus. I did so under Decree Law 12/2012, which pointed to the great health problem that no one can question to Catalonia at this time and which seeks to attribute the competences of residences, until now assigned to Treball, Afers Socials and Families, to the Department of Health. This epidemic is especially difficult in these institutions and it is clear that it would be useful to give a comprehensive health response to protect our great people as much as possible. In this sense, I now want to remind you that at the last session of control that we were going to be able to hold here in Parliament, just before the epidemic, my group, my person, the deputy speaking to you, we were going to head to the chamber to place the concern for the coronavirus, especially to the residents, in the priority area. Unfortunately, we were right. It is the greatest implication to avoid what has happened, and that is why we find it certain that you are reorienting the attribution of competencies for such a major and better health response. Focusing on Decree 6/2020, it is clear that the imminent economic crisis is multifactorial, with threats of interruption of production chains, of imports needed to guarantee production, export and tourism, among other things. Here you enter a very important part for Ciutadans, Vice President: take measures to give free service to the citizen of 061. Fi, it's about time. Citizens had asked the Health Commission a long time ago. My partner, Mr Javier Rivas, had put forward a motion for a resolution, which, of course, you rejected. Then we told you it wasn't right to make the sick pay for your call. At the beginning of the pandemic we wanted to ask you again, but when Ciutadans proposed it, you didn't pick it up. We will do it today, because this is good for Catalans. It's been a long time since we've been in a hurry, petitions of all kinds, and even that this shame of getting our hands on the buttocks of the evils that have arrived in Europe. We have all seen MEP Jordi Cañas denouncing to the European Commission your long-standing re-enactees with those affected by the coronavirus. Thank you, MEP. That's why we're voting for you to stop getting your hands on the sick people's buttocks. Yes to the gratuity of 061. Collect that you also need to guarantee the loans that go to small and medium-sized enterprises to deal with the effects of the pandemic, obviously. It is also obvious that the self-liquidation of the tourist tax has to be dealt with. Certainly, again, an example that today's assumptions can't be good – and can't be economist, it can't be so. If the tickets calculated and planned for the current year will not even be charged, no longer because the autoliquidations are fixed, as we will finish approving in a few minutes, but because there is no tourism paying these taxes, the assumption continues to fall apart: it does not serve. Law 7/2020. I will not speak in depth of the help that falls for the self-employed workers in the contracts. The proposals made by Citizens for the self-government are very extensive and, therefore, only to add that they re-open the support to the help that you propose. We would do more, all efforts are vital to facilitate the work of the autonomes. But again, it is more extensive in its proposal. A short sign to the contract to develop mobile applications to serve the city. You have explained it extensively, so said, all the support, even though they know that they are demanding in transparency, in defense of freedoms, in defense of individual rights. Do not take advantage of exceptional circumstances to do what you don't touch. In this sense, reminding the Government that the European Commission will also ensure that applications comply with community-based rules of deprivation, that they respect regulations and guarantee the will and anonymity of citizens, we will also do so. It is important that all this information is now used to make decisions, and also, at times, as search and knowledge. For what it does to the Law 8/2020, a very important measure, which is the reduction of the tax type of the water canon, and especially to highlight the domestic users who enjoy the social rate and also the reduction for the rest of the domestic users and the contributors of industrial uses and also the rowers. All our support. Why did you not have to validate 12/2012 with this type of decree, to remove the tax measure for the canon from the water of hotels and campgrounds, which are not working? The state of alarm doesn't allow them. It's obvious that if they can't work, they can't charge that minimum. Yes to the social rate and yes to pick up the hotels that are closed. You're the ones who support the taxes. Decree Ill 10/2020, the star; they incorporate into the wording what they have forgotten the assumptions and that, after so much pressure, they have had to incorporate: the collection of the supplement of variable productivity, the famous DPOs. Santi Rodríguez, Assumpta Escarp, Marta Ribas, Vidal Aragonés – now absent here, but sure to follow the debate carefully – thank you, we have succeeded. This chamber had already approved it. Thanks to the opposition united in this, we have a law in progress precisely to shield them. It was time for the government to understand that the workers could pay them 100_percent of the commitments. Finally, the decree incorporates measures for the provision of funeral services. You, Vice President, also explained it. Certainly, thanks, too, to your workers for the impressive work done. It can guarantee, at these times, fair prices and interim burial procedures. In this sense, I already spoke to the councillor at the end of my life, asking for the maximum respect. And, especially, I did ask for unquestionable guarantees in the treatment of the deceased. We know there's a waiting list for the incinerators, there's no family present. Therefore, respect and guarantees must always be without any absolute excuse. Dignity, respect and guarantees at the end of life must always be an unquestionable right. [[Pause.]] I do not know if I can continue that there is no Vice-President or President of the Bureau. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'll wait, I'll wait. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.187.0	Come on in, Congressman. The vicissitudes of today's plenary. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.188.0	Thank you. I think it was preferable to wait for you to stay at your place, at the intermig...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.189.0	Forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.190.0	Actually, it's to tell him I'm finishing my speech. So, thank you, President. Members of the Bureau, members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Catalans and Catalans, we have exceptional moments, that no one has any doubt that we will get out of this crisis, but now the Government has two options: to close you in a government with a minimum parliamentary majority or to open you up to agreements that extend the representation to the great majority of Parliament that comes out quickly from the crisis of the coronavirus. You can anchor yourself to the dystopetic historical claims or you can be constructive and lay all folds of solutions that Catalans need. You can persevere alone and divide or you can accept and recognize the other half of the hemisphere, which, as it may not seem today, but represents more than half of the Catalans, and go all folded in solutions throughout Catalonia. Catalans and Catalans, exceptional moments require exceptional heights. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.191.0	Thank you, Congressman. They are now being sent a return to the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group to move forward. You have the word to execute you, Congresswoman Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.192.0	Good morning, President. The good day, Vice President, the deputies, the deputies. Glad to see 'em. From here, too, and on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would also like to send some shows of affection and call to all those families who have lost some esteemed person and to those who still have them in hospitals or to the residences painted for their lives. Let's hope we can get it back soon and get it out of this darkness that we find ourselves in. We are debating these first four decrees that the government has approved and that they are therefore trying to respond to this crisis of the Covid-19. There are four, however, in fact, there is one that substantially modifies the previous one, and, therefore, they would almost remain in three. But well, these are the first four decrees that the government, since March 12, has begun to develop. In the first place, I would like to say them or I would like to remind them – and I believe that today also the president of my group has made it – that we have made ourselves available to the government from the first day. I believe that the first offer made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress is March 10, through our President, in which, therefore, "tends one hand to the Government to agree on urgent and extraordinary measures to try to deal with this crisis that we have to deal with. He convinced us that it's true that at these difficult times it's when it's up to us to add and build together. You've even said Ciutadans, haven't you? Congressman Soler's story, so it's a story I want to thank him for and I want to congratulate him. Because it seems to us that Ciutadans had not had this to all in the last few days. And in a moment, then, of imperative difficulty as we live, I think it's a gesture that honors them. And I think you have to say it today, too. I therefore hope, too, that the Government will be receiving the opposition groups, the opposition majority group, the PSC, and others, in an attempt to establish agreed measures. It is true that those who present today have not granted them. As I said, on the 12th they approved this decree, on the 13th, it is true, they made a meeting with the economic spokespersons, where we, from that very beginning moment, moved, so some concerns, some proposals to the government, but from then on we did not have any more contact with those appearances than in a virtual way we did and that really make the relationship so difficult. We believe that there should be no hindrance in order to be able to carry out commissions or plenary as we are doing today, in a reduced way and with all guarantees, but we believe that it would be the best. In fact, we have seen in the State, we have seen in the Congress of Deputies, how they celebrate plenary and committees. President Sánchez attends the control sessions in plenary to respond, he and his Government. But we've also seen Minister Illa, once a week, appear on the committee to account for the situation and the measures they take. And we think that this would also be good if you spent here, above all, considering that from this difficult crisis, so there have been times of great tension, and they are not there. For example, I put the case of residences, right? So President Torra himself questioned the management that had been done. Perhaps, then, sometimes the appearances in committee have gone well, gone well, to be able also to analyze, debate and dialogue, which is what makes the virtual system very difficult..., to develop with a certain normality. But well, back to the decrees. In the first place, therefore, I remembered them or wanted to reinforce this idea of the mother. Secondly, we wanted to tell you that the measures you have taken are correct and we share them. And for this reason today we allow the validation of these decrees. But we also have to say that they seem absolutely inadequate to us. We don't think there's an economic effort back here, and we don't think there's been any mobilization of resources before a crisis we're living with. And the government may say it doesn't have the capacity to do it, but that's not true. There are instruments to be able to modify the assumptions still extended, even extended, in order to be able to deal with these measures. And they've done it some other time. As of April 2019, Decree 7/2019 modified the assumption to be able to cope with the increases in staff that were established for the State and to make the payment on a part of the 2013 extra payment. It was a credit supplement of 800 and escaig million euros that modified the assumption around 2,000_millions. It is said that during 2019 and the rest of the year, changes have been made by law in order to have more resources and to be able to meet commitments. My question, and the question from my group, is why we didn't do this today, Vice President; why before this severe crisis we wanted to wait until April 24th for the assumptions to be made when, all this month that we are carrying a pandemic, we could have made presumptive modification laws to deal with these resources? We could have done it the way we've done it other years. There are different mechanisms: modifying, incorporating these tickets that have arrived from the State and that have already..., they have not announced, but that they have been transferred, as the updating of the beasts. First it was, at the end of March, 260, and now it hasn't reached 260 more. In addition to these social foundations, support for the feeding alleys and others. That's just getting it in, transferring it generates game, and they could be making modification decrees. But then another thing: you could also be reorienting resources from different departments to direct them to those priority areas. And now I'm thinking of measures that are very supportive, so, in their own right, small businesses or the most vulnerable families. And you didn't either. The other day we were surprised by the Business and Knowledge Councillor, who surprised us positively, because she said that from the possibilities she had in her department, somehow, she had gone through the scrap to dedicate 9_million euros to a counter-... shock program, to trade. So, we really liked him. Looks like he's all right. Our question is why the government did not do so in its conjunction; why the government in its conjunction did not review the departments that are least priority to devote – I am not talking about 5,000_millions, we have not made ourselves bogged down– 100, 150, 200_millions of euros to urgent measures to deal with this situation so difficult that they see, for example, small businesses or self-governments. That's what we don't understand. If a department has done so, a department which, precisely, should have more resources to deal with this economic crisis..., then that is precisely what the government does and, in turn, the government in its conjunction does not do so. I mean, I could have done it. And for that, he didn't need any decrees from you. And, besides, with the extraordinary resources that have come from the State, I could have done it too. And we don't understand, Vice President, because that's not what they did. As I say, I remember, the Decree of 7/2019 allowed me to do so and it was the past year. So we don't understand what happened this year. I understand that you have a lot of will and a lot of insistence on the fact that the assumptions are in place, but approving the assumptions is not incompatible with making a_me that may be taking urgent action. And, look, I'm telling you, because you could tell us a lot of things, right? But how it's done, how we already have precedents, so I don't know why it's not done now. And, listen, in the end the Generalitat in Catalonia has a lot of resources and skills, and, therefore, what it has to do is to exercise them. Look, and we have put it as an example, the government valence: it has carried through different planes – I think it has already reached the onze or the dotze – more than five hundred_tons of sanitary material. I, listen'm, have specified which sanitary material and where it is distributed. We would like to know, that we don't know yet, who were the purchases of sanitary supplies, who exactly, in unity and where they were distributed. We don't have that answer yet, Vice President. And so, therefore, transparency also seems to us to be one of the values that should exist and not... and unfortunately we don't have it. They say you and they complain a lot about the lack of skills, and now you've said it: refocusing. But, look, if the competitions have them all. The skills to buy sanitary supplies held them, held them. What's going on is they didn't make them serve. Home, if the valiant government has served it... I suppose they must not have made one community or another. They kept them, but they didn't exercise them. And we'd like you to explain why. Listen to me, the Valencian Community, besides this purchase of material, has also taken valuable measures for what it does to the economic issue and has approved, for example, funds, more than..., almost 60_million euros per fund to the autonomous, 32_million euros for strategic sectors such as gambling or textiles, 32_million euros to supplement the aid to those workers who are part of an ERTO, and a few more. We're not talking about big figures, but a voluntary gesture seems to us to have been fine. You could have shaken the Generality's premise, even if it was extended, for establishing measures of this type. And we don't understand, honestly, why he didn't. The Valencian Community has a much smaller assumption than ours, of 16,900_million euros, and it is Spain's second most indebted community. That's to say, under worse conditions, surely, that ours, right? And, in change, so, they did it – they did it. And we have a feeling that you're always late; you're always late or you always have excuses for not doing it. Because here, even though we like each other, we still feel toilets, excuses and looking at the other side. And it seems to me that there are competitions, we have resources to be able to make some decisions. Look, reality is very coughing; we may or may not like it, but it's very coughing. And if they manage at these times an autonomy like Catalonia, with skills and resources, so, listen, what they have to do to meet these obligations and those responsibilities they have. I look forward to a few concrete aspects of the decrees that have approved that we do not just like them, beyond the fact that we believe they are insufficient and that they may have done more. Miri, we don't share this view that you're making, differentiated, for what you do to the salary increase only of the health staff of the ICS. And, in change, let the Siscat staff band and don't set up a mechanism because this staff covers more forward. The Siscat staff are the health staff of the consortia, that is, of the public consortia. And you're leaving them behind. They're only deciding to increase these DPOs to the sector, to the doctors, to say the least, to the health personnel of the ICS. We don't understand why this difference. And while you're doing this, of course, I'm hard to say - I do, but you over-finance private sanitation with a decree - that today we don't validate and that we'll see if you have the support of the chamber to validate it – or so, putting 43,000 euros per ICU bed or paying or compensating private sanitation for it. Home, if we're in the best condition for the public... but it's just that the public has many deficiencies. And precisely in one of the decrees that we will pass today, and that in this concrete case we will abstain, therefore, decide to make this salary increase – which seems very good to us – to the health professionals, but only of the ICS. And what we say to him is, "Listen, let's move from applause to recognition. And recognition has to be economic if what we're really appreciating is how we're doing in every intervention by our healthcare professionals. They're also talking to you, in the decrees, about the assemblies. In fact, they're talking about how they'll be able to develop full-fledged government organs. It's okay, but not a euro, either, at the joints. The assemblies – which some with approved assumptions and others are not – are making hands and hands to give answers to this crisis. And I asked you at the gatherings what you are spending every month more – assuming you didn't have it – to cope with this crisis. It's extraordinary what they're doing. And they're doing it. And this is the comparison that we get when we see what the government is doing. And they're getting together and they're getting together, and they're getting together, and they've also bought sanitary supplies, and they've put 50 million euros in the fund of the tax management office to donate beasts to the joints, because obviously it's been adjourned, for the time being, or the payment of taxes has been suspended. Nor have you done easy things, such as agitating some payments at the meetings; for example, the tourist fee, which is usually paid at the end of the first quarter and this year, at the moment, has not yet entered. Home, therefore, are resources that together they are very good. So they ask that in some things they can also put agility in their decisions. Miri, another one decided not to convince us. On the water channel, we agree that this tariff is social, but we believe that the one who is developing economic activity in a normal way, so I don't know if we should get rid of this. Like families: not all families are the same. These linear redundancies to us do not please us. We welcome fiscal reforms or progressive and fair taxation. And so, well, here you have this decision, which will cost us a lot of resources, but I think we might have fine-tuned a little, a little more. In order not to enter the field of education, which also, therefore, have made some mistakes or arrived late, such as the issue of the management of groceries, which they have had to distribute the same joints, with wrong dates and fifteen days late. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, they've been handing out the joints. Yes, yes, with proper staff. Yes, yes, Vice President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, of course, of course – of course, of course. Well, yeah, yeah. In other words, the generality is clear that it never does anything wrong and never recognizes the work others do, and I think it would be good for you to do it, because the joints are a little tight and they work a lot. And I think he's the one who's playing today, at this moment, the governments that are at the front of this crisis. Look, despite our discontent with the insufficient measures, for some who do not just like us and who may not have just heard it, and despite some improbable statements from a government that we believe must be of all people and that we give them many times, at times as difficult as these people think they must continue to stretch their hands, we must continue to raise a government so that we can move forward in the making of decisions, but as we can imagine, we are not satisfied. Today the president of my group has given you this document« Pact for social and economic reconstruction, which we believe is what should prevail at these times. That's to say that we all form from the exit, from the answers, from the solutions, and not just a few. So much good is going on – so much good is going on – because I think it's what citizenship wants and we all deserve to get the better of us and put it to the benefit of the citizens of this country. So, as I said, we allow these decrees to be validated, but we ask them for ambition, work and cooperation with all the administrations to really fight and get us out of this pandemic that we're living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.193.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We may be the turn of Congressman Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.194.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, MPs and MPs, Mirin, in these four remaining decrees to discuss the bulk of the government's immediate response to the health, economic and social crisis. And reading the four of them I think there's a conclusion that it's obvious, that the answer is insufficient; there's no response to the height of the back we have as the country before. And we ask that there be an answer to the rise, that there is a plan of short-term, medium-term and long-term unemployment in order to cope with the situation we live in. We do not ask for an equivalent response to the mobilization of resources that the Spanish State has or that it has any. We are aware that the Generality cannot mobilise the resources that the Spanish Government can mobilise, but we are aware that it can mobilize resources to design a shoal and that it is not doing so; that these four decrees are not a measure of shoal to deal with short term an answer that gives confidence and that gives security to the fabric produced in this country and to the families of this country, is not a shoal, and I believe that one of the things that we are living in is clearly that we are late and that we will be able to build this answer. We're there to debate it and we're there to build it, but I think the first thing we'd have to recognize is that this whole thing that's not a rock plan and that we still have it to build and that we're late. The second question, and I'll get right into it. Decree No. 6: Free of charge of 061 and extended the week-ends from 012. Well, I think these steps we're going to find are part of two situations. The first, which was a shame that had privatized itself and the whole phone of Salut Respon. And the second, which wasn't done until this broke into social networks, because the lines were collapsing for the health emergency, people had thirty-six minutes of waiting and then they found that the phone was paying. And when the people started complaining, and they broke the debat to the courts, and they broke the debat to the press, then they ran to make a decree to repeal it, and it seemed like nothing happened here. We have already said so: to the abnormality of having a public management policy that privatizes even all health care phones we do not want to return. And this is the reality since 2015, in this case, with a company that has won €45_million in benefits managing an essential service. Because in a decent country that a city that is concerned about its health tricks a phone number..., it should be on a phone of public management and free and universal access. And that's an obvious thing. And what has been profited by 45_million euros a company is an abnormality to which we do not want to return and to which we could have given an answer this year to Parliament with the initiative presented by Ciutadans' companies; 2017 when the concession of the service was made again, and 2015, which should not have been produced. And, therefore, I think they're from those lessons that we have to aim for not to come back, not to come back. The second question that I would like to raise is that the decree also sets out to help credit through the Catalan Institute of Finance for businesses and for peppers in this country. Mirin, the Bank of Spain did a survey of the different companies in the country to detect, let's say, when they do the surveys, macro-level situations and also to detect opinions. The survey produced quite dramatic results: 80_percent of the companies had fallen their productive activity; 40_percent of the companies, more than 60_per_percent had fallen their productive activity, so much because..., those that had closed down by decree as those that had fallen from production derived, therefore, from the lack of suppliers or from the lack of demand. And, therefore, we have an obvious productive fall. And I was wondering about the different strategies that companies have put on the table, which are very varied, because it's not the same as a service company as an industry, a company that's essential as one that isn't, etc. But what was interesting was the degree of utility that valued the companies that had had the different economic measures of the different... In this case, from the Government of the State. And the answers were very clear: they were very positively valued the rise of taxes – as is incorporated into this decree –, it is to say, do not condone taxes, but we raise them until we know what is the situation of the companies of this country; the ERTOs, of course, can keep working fabric without resorting to consumption in order to be able to reintegrate it when we return to productive activity, and the lines of the ICO, the lines of financing. And we think they're a useful tool. And we appreciate very positively that this effort of 170 and millions of dollars has been made to finance businesses during this production impasse that we do not know how far it will go. And we value it very positively, because there is a tendency, let's say, to present this crisis as a low tide. We'll see a productive, economic, consumer, etcetera, very drastic fall, and when this is over and the confinement is up we'll see how everything goes back to normal. And that will not happen; the recovery will not be in the form of a low tide and, moreover, the fabric of the product that we destroy today will not flourish tomorrow; it is not certain that when one bar closes the next day it will open another. That doesn't happen at the macroeconomic level. And, therefore, we must preserve the destruction of the product fabric as a first priority, together with the preservation of the work fabric in this country. In the rest of the decrees, I believe that here there has been more discussion – in the 7th and in the self-explanation that you made at 8. Look, thanks to the pressure of the unions in this country, we learned that the Education Department had hosted more than two-thousand workers linked, therefore, to school monitors, food monitors, school transport workers, etc. It is to say, at a time of greatest difficulty and, moreover, in a sector such as education, which does not even know effectively when it will be able to reintegrate, because we do not know if the course will begin normally as of September, the Generalitat was hosting thousands of workers. And here's the decree that you put on the table. Our Decree 7, before you self-examine it, we fully share it. And we go further: the Generalitat should be leading a response with the joint public administration of this country, with the deputies, with the regional councils, with the assemblies, with the joint public institutions of this country, a response where one of the priority axes is to keep all the jobs associated with public activity in this country. And when we all say it's all, because it's a shame that we ask private companies to make efforts not to go to ERTOS and that public administrations are going to ERTOS to all small companies that have their activities linked to public activity in this country. And more so in this case, we have to say that the majority of food and school monitors cover under precarious conditions, have a very low education capacity and that, besides, they don't even know when they can reintegrate. And I think the people who have been working for years in this country should be treated with a little more deference. The problem is that we share the approach you made to Decree No. 7, but the self-explanation you made and the modification you made in Decree No. 8 I believe is returning to the initial situation. We know that there are departments where the Generality is making hands and hands because the companies that serve keep the places of work, but we believe that it is not protecting the group of workers associated with the public administrations and that it is obvious as you put it. The third question – I still have five minutes – is the help lines that the Generality is carrying. We say now that it is obvious that a line of 7 million euros for autonomes has a level of coverage, with a bit of luck, of one hundred autonomes of this country. And, therefore, it's a line of help that you see that it doesn't end up costing more the advertising campaign than you've done than it ends up with the product fabric and the citizenry of this country. But it's that, besides, his design is inefficient and what he's going to end up with is that his level of coverage is still lower than expected. You've done a self-help that's incompatible with the end-of-service performance that the State gives and that will end up being offered in a bureaucratic process. We do not ask the Generalitat to bring in aid comparable to what an ERTO supposes, or what the event supposes, or what the performance is due to cessation of activity; what we ask is that it intervenes in another way, that we look at those spaces where the protection mechanisms and the protection policies that are unfolding the State do not arrive or leave sectors unprotected. A 7_million_i_mig help for autonomies is practically nothing. On the other hand, an aid intended to reinforce that to those self-employed persons who are physical persons, who are 250,000 people in this country, who are obliged to join a benefit for a cessation of activity of EUR 661_..., to make additional aid so that they can reach a minimum inter-professional wage, this allows us to design another type of aid and subsidies in this country that is neither going to compete nor compare with the policies that the State is deploying, but that will strengthen them from the bottom up to ensure that the social shield that is unfolding does not fall across sectors of the protected population. I think it would be a way of dealing with the task of the Government of Catalonia in a much more efficient and more successful way. We already know that you can't put 3,000_million euros on the table to deploy a platter of rock. Therefore, we are still operating and efficient; we are looking for which social sectors are more unprotected, as well as state aid, and we are strengthening them so that they can be protected during this crisis. These types of intervention will surely give for less headlines, but they are much more effective and allow – and allow – to protect the citizens of this country in a more secure way. And last but not least, with the two minutes and the rest of me. We have proposed two elements: that the Public Administration guarantee to all workers that its activity is associated with the public activity the places of work during this time of production during the state of alarm and until it is allowed to normalize their productive situation, and that in the private sphere it is guaranteed so much the fabric of production as complementary aids that allow the expansion of the social shield. There's a final decree, which is that of the sanitary workers. We understand that it is a recognition that what was done in 2012 to detail them a 50_per_cent the variable productivity complement that was instrumentally a wage relay, which, moreover, in the case of the professionals of the Català de la Salut Institute, went beyond that of the rest of the public workers, because the pes on the salary structure that this complement has is greater in the workers of the Català de la Salut Institute than in the rest. Therefore, we understand that the recognition we make every day to the health professionals of their efforts to deal with this crisis should also be the recognition that a lot of the rhetoric that has been used to justify wage detail, in which the effort and dedication of public workers in this country is diminished, can be reversed by putting into value the work of public workers in this country and returning the full wage benefits to public workers in this country. Therefore, we fully share this decree, we believe that it should be extended to all health professionals, beyond the public entity to which they refer, and that, therefore, it will be necessary to make decrees that are up-to-date and to return salary details to the group of public workers in this country. And, on the other hand, we are grateful, too, and we share the measures aimed at ensuring that there is no forced failure to comply with the obligations of the different actors of civil society, owners' associations and sports associations, so as to make their functioning more flexible, and also those sectors such as those of culture, that many of them are subject to subsidies, that obviously they will not be able to complete the objectives, let us say, in those actions that were to be scheduled at the length of this year, and that, therefore, their flexibility also allows them to maintain work places. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.195.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed is the turn of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.196.0	Well, then, as the deputy of Catalonia in Comú said, in these decrees is the bulk of the government's response to the health emergency situation. The vice president and economic advisor said that the most vulnerable people can't get through this crisis. In one and a half months, the measures we see are not in this direction, but in an absolutely counterproductive direction, and they are directed at this crisis to pay the most vulnerable. And now we will explain ourselves with concrete examples. For another gang, the vice president and economic advisor also said that this pandemic cannot be turned into a social and gender crisis, but that this pandemic has been a trigger for a systemic crisis in the capitalist system; a system that has proved to be disrespectful to life and survival. Privatization and retailing are not alien to this situation. And if today's health-emergency situation is being addressed with a breakdown of the health system, it is precisely for the policies that have prevailed during all these years, that have put at the center the interests of the market and not the rights and needs of the people. Yesterday, precisely, at the doors of the Hospital Clínic, the workers of the hospital were manifested and explained that they were not heroines, but they were workers, that they were in absolutely precarious conditions, assuming the situation of health emergency. And this is also the consequence of the detail that public sanitation has suffered over the last few years. For another band, said Catalonia's spokesman in Comú that the government's response is insufficient. And we share that the answer is insufficient. He said there had to be an answer to the rise and asked the government to be able to make a social plan. So let's hope that the social welfare plan that the government does is not in the same sense as the measures that have been passed during a month and a half through various decrees. These measures are based on the classic recipes of neoliberalism for dealing with systemic crises and, therefore, are based on a reduction or reduction of taxes in a homogeneous way, or on a moratorium on taxes, also without taking into account the contribution or economic capacity of the taxpayer, and, for another group, also based on the precariousness of the material living conditions of the majority of the people and workers – we see the government's bet on the moratorium on the floors managed by the Catalan Agency of Habitatage and not on the suspension of the payment of the lawyer, when it can take this decision – and, for another group, responses based on the absolute lack of accountability of the private sector. And if we look at the decrees, if we read all the decrees, the measures that imply a greater economic reversal are those that are destined to take over the losses of private companies that manage public services. And that is clear from the analysis of the decrees. We see that between decrees 7 and 8 and two additional provisions – the first of these two decrees – it is about measures related to public sector contracts. The Government decides to declare the suspension, in the field of education, of all clean-up contracts, monitoring or analysis, the management of shared school units, the translation of sign language, school teachers and school transport from all educational centres. These contracts may have been signed by the Education Department, by local councils or by local authorities. They have also granted the possibility of total or partial suspension of certain contracts linked to buildings or public installations and equipment, such as security, surveillance, cleaning, concierge, gardening or other departments of the Generality. The competent bodies of the local authorities are empowered to issue rules or administrative acts suspending the performance of contracts. What do you mean, suspend a public contract? What are the consequences of this, such as the Law on Public Sector Contracts or as explained in the Royal Decree of the Government? So this means, or implies, that the Administration, when they suspect the contract, has to deal with certain expenses. What's the cost? So, in the first place, the Administration, already the meetings, already the district councils or the departments, have to deal with the salary expenses of the staff assigned to the contract. Now we are in a situation where the Administration has not privatized all of these services and all of these services have managed them directly. So, it's true, just as when some public workers can't work if they're paid off, so, in the same way, the workers of these services would be paid off. But what's going on? That they are now taking on the cost of the staff of the employee service, that, in addition, they pay a few laughs to their workers and that they earn multimillionaire benefits. Examples: Clece, Sacyr, Eulen. They are companies that also provide cleaning services for the buildings of the departments and that today they are also doing business with other businesses that they also have, such as the hospital waiters or the residents of the great people. We have to mourn dead in the residences of great people managed for Eulen. We have to see how Sacyr's workers have consistently denounced that they do not have PPEs. We have to see how Mr. Florentino Pérez has out Clece's workers because they are complaining that the usual people are in conditions of absolute indignity. That's why? Because the incumbent of the service, which is the Public Administration, has decided to give these services to private companies, which manage them without any type of control. How many sanctions, how many shippers have opened up to these companies that comply with users in unworthy conditions? How many sanctions have been applied to entrepreneurs who, today, keep workers without adequate security conditions? That, yes, that has not been done, but what it does do is pay these companies the corresponding expenses in maintaining the definitive guarantee. What's that supposed to mean? A percentage, normally 5_per_cent, that leaves businesses as collateral. Now, we are maintaining the deposits of these moneys, the expenses of loggers and maintenance of machinery and installations and equipment. This is also being paid for by the Administration. It's more like, he's loaded the joints with these bonds. The insurance policies that have been signed by contractual obligation, these also pay us, and the corresponding import – attention – to a 3_percent of the price of the services that should have been performed during the suspension period. We're talking about paying a 3-percent of the cost of a service that isn't ready. Now I wonder if when these companies have millionaire benefits, they share them too. That they donate to us, too, these benefits? Do they share them with all of us? It's like, right now we're taking on losers, but when there's winnings, those winnings get left behind the company. So no, we don't understand; we don't understand why this happens. I could have opted for other solutions. In the end, what the Government of the Generality does and what the Government of the State does in the economic sphere to satisfy the economic oligarchies and to continue maintaining privileges is not so different, because I read the royal decree of the Government of the State and the decree of the Generality and do not find them so many differences, respect the option of opting for contractual suspension. Perhaps you might have forced these companies to continue paying the workers' money. Perhaps you, if you see that a company that has 40_million annual benefits and is sharing dividends, and, therefore, is sharing dividends among its shareholders, is not facing under-workers and is applying ERTES, so you might have raised the possibility of terminating the contract. Because it has also been possible, through the Law of Public Contracts, to terminate these contracts. To terminate these contracts leaving the workers stranded, no. Because the law guarantees the continuity of the service. Because we could have opted for a one-hundred-per-cent public management, which is what workers and users of sanitation, social services, education are asking for. That we are asking ourselves to opt for a model of management, provision and ownership of a public cent_per_cent as the only guarantee in order to be able to provide a quality service. But you've agreed to consolidate a model that matches the public with the private one. And this has harmful consequences for the people, for the users of the services and for the workers and, above all, for the most vulnerable. And when I talk about the most vulnerable, I'm talking about infants, big people, people with mental health problems, people with disabilities. And, therefore, you need to know that you are responsible and that you have the share of responsibility that surrounds you for promoting for many years policies of privatization and retailing. We find ourselves at the door of one of the hardest economic, economic and social crises we've suffered in the last few years, much more cruel than the one of 2008. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You don't have to continue playing the game to private companies that run public services. We need to get the public services back, because they have to be of quality and they have to be the center of all politics. And the other day, she was listening to the Presidency Counsellor who said that we now have the capacity to allocate 2,500_million euros to the public sector. And how will you do that? That's it? Paying all these concepts to private companies? Or will we get these 2,500_million euros to be able to reverse privatizations and bet for a public cent_per_cent model? Well, not only are these measures the ones that contemplate these decrees, but, in addition, we see how the gratuity of 112 and 061 is established. Now let's get into it that these servants have never been privatized. Who is taking the cost of this service? Who's taking the cost of this service now, 112 and 061? The cost of this service is taking over the Administration; it is taking on the cost of a service that, in addition, carries 45 million euros of benefits for a company that is providing the service with heavy deficiencies and, in addition, with costs that we pay the whole city. So now, among all of us, we are paying 45 million euros in profits or the 45 million euros in profits during this time to provide services that are public and that should never have ceased to be public, and that are now in the hands of private companies. And we're the ones who can't explain it to us. Moreover, now it turns out that we have to take the risk of credits lending BBVA, Banc Santander, Catalunya Caixa... What are the conditions on these benches? We have asked, we have not yet rejected an answer. Any conditions to know who they lend the money to and who they don't lend it to? And we would also like to know..., because the other day the vice president said to us: "Well, there are many loans that the Catalan Institute of Finance will provide directly. So, look, we're glad, but exactly who's going to lend this money? What is the social and environmental return? What criteria have been established to find out who will receive the money from the Catalan Institute of Finance? Are we still betting for the automotive sector? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] For the construction sector? For the tourism sector? For volatile and pre-charitable sectors?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.197.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.198.0	It's over, President. In other words, we hoped for measures that precisely went by because the most vulnerable did not have to pay for this crisis, but we have seen a government response that would be absolutely contrary to their speeches and rhetoric.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.199.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the parable of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.200.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, in the face of the debate and adoption of decrees of these characteristics, we must try to be as rigorous as possible and to differentiate the content of the decrees, textually what they say, and the measures they bring, from other issues with which, of course, we are in deep disagreement about the management that has been carried out in recent days, but which are not included in these decrees. In that regard, it should be said that there are many things of the decrees that we consider appropriate and that, moreover, it is absolutely necessary to do so. It must also be said that some of the measures adopted here today coincide with a package of proposals that we transferred to the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya in a comprehensive document, which the Government received a comprehensive response, in a document of thirty-seven leaflets. We proposed health protection, the 061, renewal of prescriptions, home care, mobility, industry, telematics education, rapid testing, public safety or tax reform. Some have been included; there are other issues, such as health protection, rapid testing, tax reform or, in particular, tourism, which we do not like. Among other things, in the case of tourism, it is particularly important, because, in the end, this afternoon a rise in the overnight rate will be approved to the hotel sector that you will tell me, in the current situation, how you eat that. But, in any case, I insist, if you stick to what the decrees say, we cannot reject the ones, although, in our view, they are insufficient, which is why we will abstain. But that is also a way of giving a certain vote of confidence to these decrees. But today we are in the Parliament of Catalonia, we have been able to recover the action of government control, in addition to the telematics commissions, the parliamentary appearances that had taken place, and therefore it is an opportunity for us. Apart from recognizing some things that are being done correctly, our obligation as an opposition is to say what is being done wrong, what has been done wrong, and, above all, also to refer to some falsehoods with clearly propagandistic touches. And I'm going to focus on three issues. The first is prevention and anticipation; the second is confinement, and the third is – and I referred in the control session to the President of the Generalitat – generating trust, unity, solidarity and fluid communication among all in the face of the crisis. Let me therefore begin with the question of prevention and anticipation. As much as Councillor Budó insists that, with independence, then, they would have saved themselves dead and that with independence, they would have confined themselves fifteen days earlier, that is false. Fifteen days before the confinement, Mrs. Budó and many of you were in Perpignan. But, in Mrs. Budó's particular case, in the days immediately after, according to her own social media, she was giving everything on some of Barcelona's leisure routes, which at that time nothing happened because it was not prohibited. But it is certainly not the idea one has of what comes to be a traditional confinement. But not just her. Eighteen days before the confinement, the Secretary of Public Health of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Mr. Joan Guix, said textually: « Seasonal flu is much more serious than coronavirus. On March 9, Mr. Joan Guix himself said: "There is no reason to close schools and universities. We're talking about March 9th. On March 10, two days after the 8-M, Mrs Vergés still said that we had no public health problem justifying the cancellation of the Fira de l'Ensenyament. Allow me, now, to speak of knowledge, which has been the star idea, the total confinement, the idea on which the supposed struggle between Sánchez and Torra has pivoted. Well, while Mr. Torra supposedly defended the closure of Madrid, which was the euphemistic expression to talk about total confinement, that same day, March 13, Constellera Vergés still recommended that parents take children to children's parks. And the next day, March 14, Mr. Buch passed a decree to allow for the opening of discotheques in a third of his capacity. I mean, they were talking about closing down, but, in the competition that you have, they weren't closing down Catalonia, they were just talking about closing down Madrid, which was a message from Torra that had a perverse load of depth, which was to move the idea that here in Catalonia they came from Madrid to contagious us. It is true that in Madrid many people behaved irresponsibly. They also behaved irresponsiblely here in Catalonia people who moved those days to their second residences, but it happens that these irresponsible Madridns did not come to Catalonia, went to other autonomous communities of Spain. In short, the total confinement that Mr Torra supposedly defended has always been postureo. And as a conclusion we can say, around the confinement, that the management of Sánchez and the management of Torra in this matter has been equally reckless and in many cases incompetent, surprisingly identical in its management. When you always work from the posture of the confrontation against the Government of Spain, it is necessary or not, you lose energy to manage properly, for example, the residences or the needs of the day-to-day. Much has therefore been said about the disapproval of Councillor El Homrani for his management of residences. It has been talked about, not enough, because this will bring queue, that circular to which I also referred for a treatment of less therapeutic intensity to those older than eighty years; a matter that, I insist, will still bring queue because we will see what it means. But it has also happened with the lack of material, with the lack of protection for health care workers. I insist, the incompetence we have found on these issues in the Sánchez government has exactly the same translation in the Catalonian government. But without a doubt the worst of all has been the management that has to do, also said in the control session, with unity, trust, solidarity, communication, generating a favourable climate of broad consensus to address this crisis. To the statements to which I referred of Mrs Budó insinuating that Spain kills us..., on March 18 the councillor Buch said that we did not need the army; on April 2 he went on to say that we did need it. It went from a discriminating attitude, directly derogatory towards the army, and on April 2 asked the army for tasks, I insist, that the army is developing in France, in Italy with all normality. In this fifteen-day transit, five hundred and eleven people died in the Catalan residences. It will not be I who ascribes to a direct cause-effect, because it would be absolutely, in the end, unfair to speak in those terms. But what is true is that the numbers of the deceased..., since the eighty-four actions of the army – data I have, may be more – in those residences, the number of the deceased in the residences of Catalonia has been substantially reduced. But it is also that the action of the army, according to all the surveys, has received the approval of Catalan society even among people who, a priori, on ideological issues, cannot have a correct perception of the army. But instead, the Government, the Government of Catalonia, has continued exactly the same line. On April 19, Councillor Bernat Solé said Catalonia shows doctors and the state, army. Finally, it is the same thing that Mr Eduard Pujol said again today. I insist, all the democratic countries in our environment must also show the army, because in all of them the army has acted with the same normality with which it is acting now, a normality that is absolutely necessary. But sometimes, even those claims, which divide, which generate ideological controversy when it does not touch, can end up being contempts that turn into tremendous lies, which also contribute to discrediting the image of our country. On March 19, in the BBC, Torra said that the Spanish government did not allow people to be confined. There may be discrepancies, but that was not true. And, moreover, he said it on March 19, when the decree of discotheques which Mr. Buch had approved four days earlier had not yet been formally repealed. It had not been repealed. So, finally, here's where every stick can hold its candle. I believe that now you have the opportunity to know, to see, to check what works and what does not. What works is a fluid dialogue to be able to carry out decrees as it has passed today, either with a favorable vote, either with abstention – the idea is not to block the –; what does not work is to insult Spain, because that is to insult a substantial part – I will not enter now if it is the 51, 53, 56 or 49_per_cent – of Catalans. That doesn't work. It never works. But especially in circumstances like this. So, I think they have a lot to think about, because, as I was also saying in the control session, this is going to take a long time and we're going to have to be closer than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.201.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the turn of Congresswoman Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.202.0	Thank you, President. Adding us, how can it not be another way, right? , to the condol and to the accompaniment of everyone who at these times is going through very complicated times, so for what it looks like. We find ourselves on the table a few decrees with measures proposed to us by the Government, and these decrees we understand that they follow very clear principles: efficiency in public contracts, ensuring the jobs of people who are assigned to contracts that are affected, universal access to funeral services, agility and transparency, helping people who are economically affected by the crisis– and despite the fact that in some aspect we are talking about transversality, as before..., this affect will be at this time cross-cutting and difficult economically for many people– and do so with permanent dialogue and participation of social agents. Therefore, detection of needs and effective responses. And always – always – with people in the center. And, as an objective, the preservation of life in all its senses, both physical and emotional, we do not forget, that it includes responses in the field of work, economic, family, animum. We understand that all these measures are fanciful of the present, but also looking forward to the future, and, therefore, very much in view of the quality of the occupation and the maintenance of the basic welfare state; a state, however, which must be of a modern welfare, of follow-up, and not a hundred_per_cent assistance as defined by what parliamentary forces. Proposals that go further than the headlines where often the small letter is explained all the less, as we have seen often the last weeks in different government communications..., but he wants to go further, to think about the current air and needs, and also to tanmate, in the future and those that are to be structural. And all this, from the reflection, from the joint analysis of multidisciplinary teams and, better yet, of team work in many sectors: the institutional ones– Government, Parliament, local world, deputies–..., and without forgetting the social agent, as we are in the worst before the vice president. So much! Mrs. Romero. Objection? More resources for the local world, and so much! , serve together for the gatherings. It's a time when we all have to go coordinate, we all have to go hand-in-hand, and if we're going to split up food billboards, what we're going to do is we're going to be glad that the department is going to be able to get there, get families with food shortages, that's all. And if we all have to help how to distribute them, I think the way is to get there. Why, if not, what do we do? Do we have to take as a measure what the PSOE of the Hospitallet gave us, wavering, could we say so, of the help of the Barcelona City Council in favor of the city on the subject of the Covid? Maybe we should just grab the model's refocusing that looks like it's helping everything. When, the government..., the first action was to ban autonomies from making purchases. And that's very hard; very hard especially with the Ministry of Health. It would not be difficult if these ministries were prepared, but this ministry had very few skills in salvation, because most of these are delegates to the autonomous communities. The autonomous communities are the ones that have a central shopping center, it is the ones that have the muscles to be able to develop as quickly as possible all those shopping that were so vital to the citizenry; vital in two aspects: one, that all these contents arrive, and, second, that arrive very quickly. But no, the measure of the State was to re-centralize in a ministry that this muscle does not have, and we have not seen the consequences; unfortunately, we have not seen the consequences. So, thank you for pulling back and at the end of a week the ministry understood that who was to make these were the different communities, prepared to make them. We also understand that the government's task passes by to hear the world in these convulsed times, and above all by rigorously analyzing that other governments do to make the Covid, an essential forward-looking task. We must be able to look inwards and also look outwards, to get out of this slogan of "the unit saves everything, and taking away the military look that we have seen in many moments to face this health crisis. It is essential, above all, because the Spanish State has very questionable decisions at the time of managing the confinement; a confinement that is of the least extent of work, compared with states in similar situations, but of the most authoritative for what it does to the restrictions of rights and freedoms of citizens, and with the re-centralisation by flag. A combination with important derivatives. A less labor intensive confinement means a more unequal confinement, where the right to confine is a class privilege. We confine ourselves to those who have guaranteed the possibility of teletreball, but it is not possible to confine the one who has to go to work. Now it plays, we understand, to guarantee the returns of the most vulnerable and the working class; it plays to maintain the liquidity of the peppers, as an example. We repeated, the action of the government, unequal, incomplete, and excessively authoritative, and we returned to see it this week, ignoring the proposal of the Generalitat worked with experts, multifactorially, so as to establish secure spaces because the children returned to the street after forty days that we could say of the house arrest, measure ignored by iniciators. But where are we? Develop it from this diumenge. For us, it is very important that in managing this health crisis, and what it will come from, it is placed at the center of the debate people and their well-being, and that this situation does not return to be a pity for people. Therefore, we must take these measures to strengthen the welfare state and not increase inequalities. What we are discussing today is the proposal for contingency plans submitted to us by the Government in relation to the current public contract, with two basic premises: suspending contracts related to the provision of services that are not used during confinement, such as clean buildings or school transportation; protection...We felt before the representative of the UPC I believe that it posed many different things in the same bag. It is not the same macro-management of a company developed at the level of the whole State as micro-entrepreneurs that many times are the ones developing these tasks in our territory. So we don't have the magic of putting it all in the same bag. Yes to the protection of all these areas of work that depend on the department. For another cost, maintain a portion of the contract payments to ensure assigned work places. We need the economy to stay out. The economy is circular. The people must have this income as guaranteed in order to be able to cope with all the expenses of our day-to-day that we all share. With regard to the new contract for cases related to the emergency and which are of urgency, we also find solutions in this sense, in order to guarantee two basic premises in periods of urgency: agility, something that many collects, in meetings where we are recently finding ourselves, thank us; a better amount of telematics, and simplicity in management, make that liquidity that many times makes impossible day by day for companies or small entities to be more effective. And tanmateix, transparency. This crisis affects the different administrations and also the citizenry, and for this reason they collect measures such as: suspension of terms in the payment of taxes, reduction of the water channel or the aid of up to two_ thousand euros to the autonomies that have been affected by their billing. For what it does to cultural, social, occupational and sports entities we also see reflected in this decree the demands of the sector, such as extending the deadline for subsidies and/or aid, and, as we say before, making it easier to combine objectives; ensuring the legal validity of the meetings of the governing bodies of the autonomous and public authorities and entities by videoconferencing; guaranteeing the remuneration fixed for the purpose of the agreement of the sectoral negotiating table to the ICS staff; increasing changes in the direct bodies of the sports entities during the state of alarm, and promoting telematic means between the owners' juntas to the communities and cooperative societies. As I said before, concrete responses to concrete demands that citizens have arrived. And, finally, I would like to finish this intervention by extending the grace to all the workers of the essential services, mainly to the first line of the health system, and to all the people who follow the recommendations in an exemplary way. Finally, add to the many and many recognitions of all health professionals and everyone who is part of this collection: midwives, nurses, cleaners, kitchen staff, management, and we can go on. It is so much the people to whom you extend this grace, that you show us the strength of the reaction that we have had as a society, as a Catalan society, and the way we have to react before any event that is not the easiest to manage. And make an element, an element of the hospitals, and remind us also of a key piece, that they are the managers of these hospitals. Just call, think, make a visit, even though it was only virtual, and go into a hospital at this time, and think about how they were a_me ago, how they reinvented themselves. You own a little bit of a hospital and you don't recognize it. It multiplied by giving assistance with UCI beds. And that, in the end, is because there are managers in the head who think, who apply. And you should also explain to us why this flexibility and plasticity has gone to health care. Maybe it's because they're human groups who are used to working on teams, who need others to develop their work well, who need to listen to what they have at the side to find solutions and be effective, because here you find quick solutions or your patients get sick, and very soon. Therefore, extend to all this health macroserve: to the first brain that thinks of a depatx, to the last person that even the one who is passing it worse. And som-there; som-there, because all this we have to magnify. And what we want you to do, give thanks to so many and so many people, these days, that we've got on the table that they need and that families need, that big people need. See how he has responsed, too, the primary; how he has responsed the pharmacy, which is also a key to the success that the hospitals after that have been able to do their work qualitatively much better; the agri-food services, the essential services... Everyone– everyone–, we have seen in the courts, has tried to put his engulfment from everything that he could add up because among all of us we went out better. Therefore, this legislative chamber cannot be less, we must be a part more of this gear, of a gear that must work as it has ever done, agile, transparent and giving solutions, and convey that, as we have always done, we will get out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.203.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, finally, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the turn of Mr Lluís Guinó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.204.0	President... Vice President, Members, Members, let me, first of all, as other Members have done, keep a record for all those people who have lost their lives in this pandemic episode, for all their relatives and for all those people, precisely, who today are still in the hospital pending their clinical evolution. Secondly, I would like to thank your interventions very sincerely. The Vice-President will take note of what has been a sequence of interventions, mostly with a positive, purposeful climate, and that, perfectly, some of the proposals you have made in your Parliament can be assumed and implemented by the Government in the future. And at this point, talking about the future... we're talking about a few days and for a few weeks. We are not proposing measures to develop them in the medium term; we are talking about episodes of today, tomorrow and tomorrow. And, therefore, he did want to take advantage of this context precisely to refer to two context questions that need to be focused. One is that we are before some decrees of law, and therefore they respond to extraordinary situations, to special situations, to urgent situations, and that they respond, I insist, to very concrete circumstances. And, therefore, probably in the approval of these decrees the law – that already I thank them for their good predisposition so that they are approved –, approved must make reference to the fact that when dealing with decrees the law is clearly about measures of shock, of measures intended solely and exclusively to deal with the health pandemic and the consequences precisely that this pandemic generates. Therefore, it is probably not the time to think about the totality of certain principles and projects, probably this is more important, certainly, because the situation and the consequences of this pandemic, obviously, will generate disruptive scenes, there will have to be scenes that will have to be planted that would not have been planted under normal conditions. Therefore, I would like to make this distinction clearly. The government has, of course, made a short and medium-term plan, as at most; it has not made long-term plans, because, at this time, unfortunately, from a point of view to land to the reality of each day, which is what the government is doing, in this case, from a specially telematic point of view – and, therefore, it can also give it full, to this issue – it is clear that any proposal that is actually addressed to the system is obvious that it cannot enter into any case nor can it be proposed in the course of a decree. Certainly, I insist, there will be questions, which President Torra has already said, which will generate reflections on the merits and which this Parliament will have to discuss and to Parliament in the proper future. But these decrees have been the conscious work of a government, in all its spheres and, therefore, in all its departments, in order to cope with this global pandemic, which, so often as to be recognized, practically everyone sinned for unpredictability or even for undervaluation of its consequences. We only referred to the Government of the Generality. It may refer to what the WHO gave to media, end of generation – yet it had not declared the epidemic as a pandemic–; that other institutions than today, after what has happened, draw more conclusions and in a much more forceful way. Because really the contingency wasn't just... or you can't just impute it to the Government of the Generality but you can practically impute it to everyone. And certainly, there were examples to follow, there were examples, but we are also thinking, from a point of view and all of the research that is being done now, that in the origin of the bud to Xina there was also lack, of transparency, and, therefore, of transmitting data that precisely can be in some way beneficial or that can be taken advantage of similarly in other countries where the bud has developed. Therefore, from this point of view, we can be honest with ourselves. This pandemic was certainly unpredictable. The reaction was overwhelming on the part of the government, and it was from the moment that the decision was taken and it was found that it was no longer a problem of isolation of some concrete cases, but that it was to be dealt with in a general way until they took decisions that were quite complicated and complex, such as the total confinement to the area around Equal, of Odena. Therefore, in the grip of these complicated, compelling decisions, it is where the Government demonstrated that it certainly had the decision-making capacity that this situation required. And from this point of view we did want to give, from Juntes to Catalunya, all the support to the government in these circumstances. They're difficult, they're complex and they're complicated. And obviously, and the president has already said, and the vice president has made reference to it, and it seems very important to me, that we should make a critical review of what is being done; it's not all right, in any case; it's the modesty of saying that we are basically..., or somehow the government is taking measures that are appropriate to the reality that arose every day. The situation is unpredictable; it has been unpredictable, and probably, as far as we take action today, we make the future more predictable. But no matter what this is, it's a full-full future of incognites that we all have to look forward to solving. And that's why I especially appreciate your interventions, because everyone can get something positive. These decrees make it possible to put on the table different questions that have already been mentioned, questions of transparency, questions of access to information on the part of citizens..., which has improved a lot, which has been installed and brought to practice everything you have to see with telematic means to interact with the Administration, that this will not be exactly a conjunctural issue of this pandemic unless it is a strategic element of future policies that are likely to develop with solvency and efficiency as they already do other countries. And, for another band too, and this I would like to make a special reference to, an effort has been made to preserve certain places of work which, certainly, as a consequence of the suspension of certain contracts, could be feared for their future and for their survival. It's done, that's what it is. And even so, not only on the part of the government, but they have intervened in the assemblies. Some of the services linked to education do not carry them directly or do not run them directly by the Government, but there are many joints in different areas in which they actively participate. And these norms and decrees that have been imposed by the government have also been assumed by the assemblies. There's been a good coordination. As always, all these questions of coordination and collaboration, you know that they are always absolutely better, and that each one looks at it from their perspective. But certainly what was needed was to cooperate, to coordinate, to apply the principle of subsidiarity with greater intensity, to listen to those who are really close to problems, because the same way that we take on from Parliament and from parliamentary groups that know more about these issues are the doctors, the nurses and all the health personnel who work in the field of health, it is obvious that those who know the most social problems of this pandemic are, in these cases, the gatherings, that we interact continuously with all the people who suffer from these issues. And it's true that what we have to avoid is that this health vulnerability that we have suffered is not transformed into a social vulnerability. There have been many dead, there have been many infected, there have been many unprotected health care, and we do not want, I insist, that it is linked, social vulnerability, with the vulnerability of salvation. And this is only a resolution articulating a system of salvation that is the maximum of equity, that equity is a basic principle of our system of salvation. And I agree with another question, which you have already referred to and which will certainly give time to reflection in the Parliament of Catalonia for the next few months and for the next few years: it is possible that this pandemic could lead to a review of certain questions that we have given for consolidation but in some cases until we have seen and assumed that they would change. From a point of view, for example, of the management of residences, from a point of view of com, from the perspective of institutional collaboration, to sum up, to sum up efforts between administrations, is practically multiplying. Precisely not collaborating and not cooperating generates dysfunctions. And the most obvious aspect is what you have to see precisely with the residences. It is likely that we will improve and change the system of residences, link it much more to the field of health and increase the imports of places of residence, give import to the places of work of people who work for residences, regularize all those people who work in this field of assistance to large people and who are not today – and who have precisely had problems with the pandemic – rather regularized. All these questions, I insist, will be the very debate we have in this Parliament. As there are also questions about the health system – that we have for a good health system – that will have to be modified and changed. And that will have to be prioritized and dealt with much better the primary is obvious. We have certainly sinned – I do not say, I say, even members of the health system –, we have initially sinned from certain hospital centers when we know perfectly well that the primary school has done a good job of containment, that they have even worked at the heart of the pandemic with a certain lack of protection, but they have managed to do so so important, I insist, that it is containment. They've practically reached the hundred thousand tricks, for what he does to the Covid. And there was also a very important reference. There is a question that will also have to be planned practically at short notice. How do we recover normality from what ordinary pathologies are? Because really the statisticians believe that they have downloaded the infarct codes, the stroke codes, but really they must not have downloaded the infarcts and the strokes. Simply that people are aware that the system of salvation is really prioritized precisely to avoid the spread of the Covid. And we certainly agree: we will have to restart everything you have to do with the reorientation of the ordinary pathologies of CAPs and hospitals in our country. And it will have to be done from the decontainment scenes that the government is working. And so often, in the same measure that the Government decreed the previous confinement to be done by the Government by means of the state of alarm, it is obvious that the decontainment will also have to be done from the territory, which means from a deep will of loyalty but of decentralisation, of transparency, that there are measures that can be moved to the city without creating more confusion than the need. We cannot confuse citizenship any more, we can certainly not confuse children any more; we have to say things as they are, we have to say things clearly and be transparent to the maximum. And, probably, when a self-criticism of what he does from a political point of view... is what gives him the right to criticize the rest. Without self-criticism, certain measures of certain governments cannot be criticized. It is important to assume that there is no government in the world that has done well, because practically this pandemic has been global. Regarding his interventions, I have already made reference, but I would like to highlight one aspect, and since we have the Vice President of the Government here, and the Councillor of Economy, who has to see the mobilization of resources and above all the historical infra-financing of the Catalonian health system. It is not a matter of mobilizing resources immediately, because they know perfectly well the concept of what is deserved expense. We will leave no one without the salvation I need, nor the mechanisms of salvation, but we do have a problem of financing salvation that we also need to raise. And I would like to thank all those parliamentary groups that have an influence on the government of the State that also participate in this need. Politics is also reaching agreements to solve a historical deficit in the health system of this country. And when referring to resource mobilization, it certainly referred to the credential supplement and party transfers from each of the departments. In the first measure that this Government took, with the first decree, it was precisely to mobilise what there was of the presupposition of the presupposition precisely extended from the year 2019; very probably the presupposition of the year 2020 will also bear the contingency that is established legally, and probably these contingency presuppositions added practically can have multiplicity effects, which is what interests, in order to solve this situation economically. Not only from the perspective of salvation, I insist, very important, you cannot increase dead people. But we need to do another thing, and it's also very important that we do the tests; we need to do the tests. The decontainment scenario has only felt and will only be effective and will have the positive consequences that it needs if it does the necessary tests practically to all the people it needs. Therefore, this will also generate and certainly require resource mobilization. End of the day. Our position is what it has been since the first day: I support the government, which is very important. To thank them for their contributions. And to insist on a fact that is very transcendent: the citizenry needs security, it needs transparency and ultimately it needs to be told the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.205.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. The telematic vote has been closed a few minutes ago and we will now proceed to the face-to-face vote. In any case, know, as I have advanced to the principle, that we will vote..., although we have made the grouped debates, we will vote obviously separate from each of the decrees. Start voting... [[Pause.]] Please, give them a little attention, as today's voting system is exceptional. Therefore, we must be as concentrated as possible. Put your vote on... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, every one of the bait you've been assigned to him today, huh? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Decree Law 4/2020 of 10 March, establishing a transitional regime for the granting of compensation and aid to women victims of male violence, provided for in Decree 80/2015 of 26 May (continuation)]] [[203-00029/12]] Let us therefore vote on Decree 4/2020 of 10 March, for which a transitional rule is established for the granting of compensation and aid for women victims of male violence, which is provided for in Decree 80/2015 of 26 May. It is understood, of course, that the votes in favour are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes against are against..., in favour of the derogation. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. Face-to-face votes, in addition to telematic votes, which have already been scrutinized..., this decree has been validated by 101 votes in favour, against and 33 abstentions. Once validated, I have to ask the chamber if there is any group interested in this decree being passed as a bill. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we shall proceed to the vote on this question. The vote begins. The processing of this decree as a bill has been approved, as 69 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions have been cast. [[Decree-Law No 5/2020 of 12 March 2010 amending Law No 29/2010 of 3 August 2010 from the use of electronic media in the public sector of Catalonia (continuation)]] [[203-00030/12]] Let's now vote on the following decree, which is Decree 5/2020 of 12 March, amending the Law 29/2010, of 3 August, from the use of electronic media to the public sector. The vote begins. This decree was confirmed by 69 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. The same applies to the chamber if there are any interested groups in which it is processed as the bill. Don't you? [[Pause.]] Not in this case. [[Decree-Law No 6/2020 of 12 March on urgent measures in the field of care, supposition, financing, taxation and public procurement, in order to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus (continuation)]] [[203-00031/12]] So let's move forward and move on to the following decree, which is Decree 6/2020, of March 12, of urgent measures in the matter of care, supposition, financing, fiscal and public contract, in order to deal with the effects of the pandemic generated by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. Let's move on to the vote on the decree. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 126 votes in favour, 4 against and 4 abstentions. I would like to ask the House again whether in this case there is the interest of some parliamentary group in dealing with it as a draft law. Don't you? [[Pause.]] So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, ma'am Sirvent? [[Pause.]] So let's go to the vote, in this sense, on the decree, I repeat, 6/2020. We're voting for processing as the bill of this decree. The vote begins. The processing of this decree as the bill has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 86 against and 8 abstentions. [[Decree-Law No 7/2020 of 17 March on urgent measures in the field of public procurement, health and management of health waste, transparency, public transport and taxation and economics (continuation)]] [[203-00032/12]] Let us now proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 7/2020 of 17 March of urgent measures in the field of public contract, health and management of health waste, transparency, public transport and tax and economic matters. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 109 votes in favour, 4 against and 21 abstentions. Ask the chamber again if it's going to process... yeah? [[Pause.]] So let's go to the processing vote as the bill of this decree. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 40 votes in favour, 86 against and 8 abstentions. [[Decree-Law No 8/2020 of 24 March on the partial amendment of Decree-Law No 7/2020 of 17 March on urgent measures in the field of public procurement, health and management of health waste, transparency, public transport and taxation and economics, and other supplementary measures (continuation)]] [[203-00033/12]] We now pass to vote on Decree 8/2020 of 24 March, partially amending Decree 7/2020 of 17 March, urgent measures in the field of public procurement, health and management of health waste, transparency, public transport and taxation and economics, and other complementary measures. The vote begins. This decree was validated by 101 votes to 4, with 29 abstentions. There's some interested group... yeah? [[Pause.]] So let's go to the processing vote as the bill of this Decree 8/2020. The vote begins. The processing as the bill of this decree has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 86 against and 8 abstentions. [[Decree Law 9/2020 of 24 March, regulating institutional participation, the permanent social dialogue and the social concertation of the most representative trade union and business organisations in Catalonia (continuation)]] [[203-00034/12]] We will now vote on Decree Law 9/2020 of 24 March, which regulates institutional participation, the permanent social dialogue and the social concertation of the most representative trade union and business organisations in Catalonia. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 130 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. Do any groups wish that they can handle it with the bill? Don't you? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So let's vote. The vote begins. Processing as a bill has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. [[Decree-Law 10/2020 of 27 March, establishing nine extraordinary measures to address the health, economic and social impact of the Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[203-00035/12]] Let us now proceed to the vote on Decree 10/2020 of 27 March, which sets out nine extraordinary measures to address the health, economic and social impact of the Covid-19. The vote begins. This decree was approved by 113 votes in favour, against and 21 abstentions. Some group...? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 40 votes in favour, 86 against and 8 abstentions. There's no longer enough to deal with this morning – it's too late. We make a suspension of the Ple up to two-quarters of the late five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.206.0	All right. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Project of the Law of Presuppositions of the Government of Catalonia for 2020]] [[200-00011/12]] And we take it back with the new item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the Opinion of the Committee on Economic and Historical Affairs on the draft law on assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2020. The debate will begin with a turn of interventions by parliamentary groups and sub-groups, from major to minor, and will end with the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, in a single turn of twenty minutes for each parliamentary group and deut for the sub-group. So, as you know, the adventurous fact that I agree with the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen's opinion on the Generality's Draft Presumables Bill for 2020 will bring the debate on item 10 to an end. Therefore, we will substantiate the arguments of the assumptions and the law of measures correlatively, and then make the consequent votes. We shall therefore begin the debate on the Opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Generality's Presumables Bill for 2020. And it has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.207.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, 'Counsellor, Members, Members and all those who follow us through the media and the networks, very good afternoon to all. I would like to begin by expressing my sincere condolences, on my behalf and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, to the relatives, friends and companions of all those who have died because of this cruel pandemic, as well as to wish an early recovery to all those who are suffering from the disease and to express my gratitude to our fellow citizens who are on the front line fighting against the virus and putting at risk their own health and their own life to defend that of others. I want to give them all a strong hug. Today we are discussing the law, no doubt, most important to be dealt with in this Parliament, and indeed in any parliament, which is the budget law, the law that defines and quantifies the policies of a government; it is the law that shows us how public resources are to be used, public resources that have been previously estimated. Therefore, this law, starting from a social and economic scenario, is the one that must allocate resources in the best possible way, and it is clear that it is done within the political criteria of the Government, which decides what its priorities are. To say that these budgets were presented in this Parliament to start the proceedings in January, and in January the social and economic scenario in Spain, Catalonia and throughout the world is clear that it had nothing to do with the scenario that we live today. Today we are facing a cruel global health crisis, a pandemic that has already caused, according to official data, 21,000 deaths throughout Spain; of them, more than four thousand are Catalans. A health crisis where we live with the cruelty that the deceased often seem to lose their name on the news to become a simple number or a simple statistic. A global pandemic that led to the declaration on 13 March of the state of alarm, which applies in the face of major calamities. A state of alarm that has resulted in the confinement of the majority of the population, with the consequent paralysis of the economy. Most self-employed people and businesses cannot produce, they cannot create wealth, and consumption has collapsed. Therefore, that supply and demand shock has completely collapsed our economy, has collapsed the sources of wealth creation and has collapsed incomes. This situation automatically turns into a social crisis of difficult estimate, hitting, like all crises, the most vulnerable in a Catalan society like ours, with so many inequalities. We are faced with a social and economic scenario in which to seek references we have to retreat to the great calamities, where uncertainty is inestimable, with scenarios almost impossible to define and quantify. We don't know the final dimension of the pandemic, we don't know what will last over time, we don't know if the virus will completely disappear; therefore, we don't know the dimension of the possible subsequent repuntes, and we live with the total uncertainty about their treatment and about their possible vaccine. But what we have to be very aware of is that we cannot lose a_minute without acting and that right now we have to focus on two priorities: firstly, to save lives, and secondly, to save jobs and our economy. That is why, at this crucial moment, we politicians have to live up to them. This is not the time for partyism or disputes, it is not the time for electoral strategies or territorial selfishness. It is time to add to our efforts to ensure that no one is left behind in the face of this grave situation. That is why I assure you that speaking, debating and voting on the budgets presented in January, when the situations we are experiencing were unimaginable, the emergency situation we are experiencing, perhaps it can be..., I don't know, perhaps it can be a staging by the presenter, it can test the oratory of the Members who defend the draft and its amendments, but from my point of view and from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens these budgets have no use for the Catalans as a whole. The budgets that you will adopt today with the indispensable complicity of the commons are, of course, already wet paper; they are not useful in the scenario we are living in. That's why today what we're really doing is kind of a trip to the past. And that is why we have always, since the first minute, Mr Aragonès, asked him to remake them, to present some useful to fight the pandemic. And we have also reached out to him to change them, always acting responsibly, trying to collaborate to the fullest. We have done so in the meetings, we have done so in the committees and we have presented them with a plan of urgent measures to deal with the pandemic. But we have to regret that you have not listened to us, Mr Aragonès. And this journey to the past that we are going to make today will serve us to discuss what that starting point was before the Covid-19, to take the political, economic and social picture of that zero moment. But unfortunately, it is not going to be used to fight the pandemic, it is not going to be used to defend the well-being of Catalans in a situation in which many of the things and issues that were on the table at the time have moved to a background; the same plan of lag and relevance in which these budgets have remained. In that January, the gentlemen of the Government had just agreed with the commons on the budgets which, according to them, were intended to be the last budgets of this mandate. It was the first time in history that budgets were accompanied by a promise to call elections, and Mr. Torra announced it, assuring that once approved he would call them. And I understand that he was doing so in the face of the evidence, in our eyes, of two government parties faced, uncoordinated and totally paralyzed in the face of the social challenges of Catalonia, turning the main law passed in this Parliament into the first election campaign rally for Junts per Catalunya, for Esquerra Republicana and for the commons. The disastrous economic model of the commons was collated by Junts per Catalunya, subjecting the middle class and the working class to greater fiscal pressure. Esquerra Republicana and you, Mr Aragonès, I understand that you were given the approval, given the theoretical tranquillity that would give you an autonomous election where the effectiveness, commitment, management and result of budgets that you would not have to set in motion would be diluted in the face of an election. And the commons, licitly, sought their share of power, sought their partisan interest and closed a triangle: to agree on budgets in the City of Barcelona, budgets in Congress, in exchange for the third summit of the triangle, to allow the approval of autonomous budgets with the endorsement of the convergents. To achieve this, his social discourse was completely sacrificed and he assumed as his own all the privileges of what until then, at least in word, they considered a right-wing, converging race. And, beyond the support in the City of Barcelona and in the Congress, they did so practically without asking for anything in return; just a small list of loose items, which would remain at the discretion of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana to materialize them or not, according to the budget availability. A budget availability that the commons wanted to achieve by imposing a higher tax burden on Catalans, obviating that Catalonia is the autonomous community with the most fiscal pressure on the middle and working class of all Spain and where the most IRPF pay the low income tranches, and precisely because of the autonomous tranche, which depends on the Generalitat. That is why today they intend to approve the creation of more own taxes in these budgets; today they will raise the autonomous portion of the IRPF in the face of a brutal crisis; they will raise the inheritance tax, and they will do so in the most cruel situation, they will do so in the midst of a pandemic, and they will raise the tourist rate, when the tourist sector, which represents 12_per_cent of Catalan GDP, is absolutely destroyed. But, incomprehensiblely, in those days of negotiation they did not negotiate a single measure of regeneration of the Administration, they did not negotiate a single measure of democratic regeneration, nor a single reduction of high offices. Today they intend to approve budgets that contain a 15-per-cent increase in high-ranking positions and posts and finger-to-hand personnel. Nor have they acted on customer networks. And, therefore, that amounts to not releasing a single euro. Not a single euro to allocate to social games, not a single euro to improve health, not a single euro to improve education, not a single euro to devote to combating inequalities. All its negotiation has been reduced to raising taxes, without improving management at all, allowing continuous budgets and giving a blank cheque to the Government; allowing no reversal of cuts, when we see that social indicators worsen year after year in Catalonia. I'll give you some data you already have. The rate that measures the risk of poverty and social exclusion was at that zero point in 25_per_cent. 25_per_cent: one_of_each_four Catalans was and is at risk of poverty. With a cruel impact on minors, who had rates higher than 31_per_cent, and women with a rate higher than 27_per_cent; all of them were rates higher than the average in the rest of Spain. Where the rate of risk of poverty at work exceeded 14_per_cent; people who fail to lead a dignified life despite having a job. With an increase in energy poverty, where more and more households do not have all the supplies, those households where now many Catalans have been forced to confine themselves. With a game for guaranteed income of citizenship that was insufficient for a pre-Covid-19 situation; imagine what it will be like for now. Mr Aragonès, you have not been able to provide resources for guaranteed income from citizenship; there are more than 75,000 Catalans on the waiting list to receive this income, and now surely there will be many more. The Catalan reality is that 42_per_cent of the welfare and social progress indicators collected in the same dossier that you presented to us have worsened in the past year. Nor are they able to guarantee attention to women who suffer gender-based violence. And all that data set shows us is an unequal society, it shows us an administration that is unable to improve and guarantee equal opportunities. It makes opportunities not the same in function even of the neighborhood where you live. Not even equals life expectancy; life expectancy varies in ten years, a decade, depending on the neighborhood where you live. With a health that continues to suffer cuts. This budget reflects a reduction of 6_per_cent in health spending compared to the one actually implemented in 2019, when it has the longest waiting lists in health care in all of Spain, with an overflowing primary care, where despite the efforts, dedication and immense work of health professionals, who are giving us a real lesson to all, citizens note the cuts and lower the indicator of satisfaction with health services. Education, another topic. We have a 17_per_cent drop-out rate. The number of young people who neither study nor work is growing. The digital divide of the students is frightening, which is becoming more than evident in the situation we are living in. And what does the Enterprise Department say? Budgets with a ridiculous bet on knowledge and universities, and that's where more than 70_per_cent of research is generated; a vital research right now. The directors were begging you for the 900_million you need to keep the administration, the universities, and you don't give them 20_million_of_euro more in these budgets. With funds for industries that barely exceed €48_million, they do not address the major challenges facing our automotive sector, among others. And that is that these budgets aim to boost the economy less than 1_percent of the budget increase compared to 2017. And in the face of this continuing proposal, in the face of this budget more than the same, what did the Parliamentary Group of Citizens do? He did what we always do: work each area with the means and experience in the real world that we have, we prepare more than 1,200 amendments that represent, in short, an alternative budget; a budget, yes, at the service of the interests of Catalonia. Defending a project for families, self-employed and the whole middle and working class; proposing moderate, solvent and useful policies. Because it is obvious that we have to release resources, eliminate all that fat accumulated after forty years without reforming the Catalan administration, eliminate all those chiringuitos, such as the Diplomat, the Office of Civil Rights and Politics, the offices of the former presidents, the cybersecurity agency... reducing all that money that they allocate to what they call "state structures, such as the CTTI, or an oversized tax agency to manage taxes that we don't have to manage, or everything they provide on TV3. And also disassemble all these client networks to prioritize spending and devote what is important: social policies. And so, with all these amendments, we have proposed to change the fate of more than €900 million, with proposals to reduce waiting lists in dependence, to invest in residences and to be able to guarantee the attention of our elderly, who have shown themselves to be the most vulnerable to this situation, given the cruel reality that they dedicate zero euros to strengthening residences or reduce, as they have done, the benefits to non-professional caregivers; with the creation of a new portfolio of social services, adapted to the reality of Catalan society; with measures to combat gender-based violence; proposals to end inequalities; measures to defend public health, to take the necessary steps to reverse cuts, to reduce waiting lists, to provide resources for primary care; proposals to have an education that guarantees equal opportunities and rights, which tends to end the barracks, to boost teaching in English, to post for the gratuitousness of textbooks and curricula, to be taken care of by special educational centres. With a whole package of economic measures also to boost economic growth, because if our business fabric does not generate wealth it is impossible to guarantee our welfare state; with a plan of shock against unemployment; with incentives for knowledge and innovation; with measures to support entrepreneurs and employees, supporting industry, supporting the agri-food sector; with measures to combat corruption and tax fraud, also betting on our administration of justice, supporting our municipalities, such as the administration closest to the taxpayer and the citizen. And so more than 1,200 sensible, useful policy proposals. And you, gentlemen of the government, didn't devote a minute to all that work. It's very likely that... I don't think they've even read them. They despised them. And today I am sure that they will vote against them, thus obviating the improvements proposed by the parliamentary group representing more than 1,100,000 Catalans. And so far, that's where the review of the budgets they want to pass today ends. More than a month ago, the zero moment occurred, the moment that changed everything. And you, despite our insistence, our hand stretched out to do so, have neither been able nor intended to adapt these accounts to be useful at this time. What we have done: we have tabled more than fifty additional amendments to adapt them, to adapt budgets already out of date to the top two priorities of this time; as I said, saving lives and saving jobs. It is incomprehensible that budgets that do not have as a priority to deal with the emergencies of public health services, budgets that do not guarantee the safety and protection of those who work to alleviate the serious effects of the pandemic, are incomprehensible. They are risking their own health and life, as I told them, to watch over all of us. It is therefore vital to improve the management and coordination of residences and to reallocate resources to combat coronavirus in residences. And we can't put aside the medical care of the citizenry and reduce the additional waiting lists due to the Covid-19. And you need to do massive tests, starting with the health staff. That is why these budgets that will be adopted today also do not include an emergency shock plan to rebuild the health system, and we are facing a social tragedy. Nor do they envisage any measures to save jobs and rescue self-employed people and SMEs. It is impossible to get our economic fabric to disappear if it does not put the Administration on its side. And the tourism sector, such as that of the hospitality industry or that of the restaurant or the trade, agonizes. And you will approve today an increase in the tourist rate. What we propose is to eliminate it for two years. We propose to release resources to create a rescue fund for self-employed people and SMEs; self-employed people who are running out of income while seeing how they accumulate fixed costs. Look, the last official unemployment data published by the Idescat, which corresponds to the fourth quarter of 2019, placed the unemployment rate in Catalonia at 10.45_per_cent: 405,000 unemployed Catalans. And, so that we can have a reference of the magnitude of the effects on employment of this pandemic, at the moment we find more than 680,000 Catalans who have suffered an ERTE, which represents more than 19_per_cent of the population occupied in Catalonia, with more than ninety_ thousand cases of temporary employment regulation. And it is the same drama in the case of the self-employed: almost 130,000 self-employed have applied for the cessation benefit. And the forecasts, like those of BBVA, reflect an estimate of GDP decline of more than 8_per_cent and an unemployment of more than 20_per_cent. You, gentlemen of the Government, have not only done the same thing again with all those proposals that we have put before you, you have gone further this time: you have vetoed them so that we can not even discuss them in an act that for me is extremely irresponsible. We know that this is a difficult situation and that the measures cannot come..., cannot be only autonomous; we need good management of the central government and the support of Europe. But you have a responsibility, and I ask you to live up to it. Look, regardless of the outcome of today's vote, we continue to shake hands with them; for us it is a matter of responsibility with the Catalans as a whole. In the face of this health, economic and social crisis, we need to use all the tools in our hands, and that is why we will continue to reach out to them. Mr Aragonès, as my colleague Lorraine Roldán has announced, we propose to go a step further and constitute the autonomous forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia ; a forum within the Parliament for Government and opposition to leave the differences aside and work together and coordinated to fight the Covid-19. And it is urgent that this forum [[some applause]] Let's get started and get back to work on the 2021 budgets. I think that must be the utmost urgency, because in the face of this situation that we are living there is only one option: working together, responsibly, demandingly, but loyally. You know me, Mr. Aragonès, and you know what I'm proposing I'm proposing to you with total honesty. I'm asking you not to lose a minute. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.208.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the turn, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, of the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.209.0	Nice late again. President, thank you. Vice President Aragonès, councillor, deputies and deputies, late afternoon. A few weeks ago – we were in quite a different situation than we are today – we discussed the totality, the totality of the assumptions. At that time, we told Vice President Aragonès that those assumptions for 2020 were late in political and late in social life. In politics, because since 2017 we don't have any assumptions in Catalonia and we think that maybe 2018, obviously, was difficult because it was the month of June that was the government, but 2019 we couldn't have. In fact, we still don't understand why those assumptions that the government designed never came to debate or vote in the chamber. It's an answer from those who have been lost and I don't think we'll ever have. And in any case, they were also late in the social field, because we told him, Vice President, that we had six years of economic growth and that in these six years we could have taken advantage of it, this increase of the tickets, this better of the economy, could have taken advantage of it to make assumptions. Presumables that would have been, of course, more favourable to devoting resources to non-funded expenditure, which means to salvation, education, residences..., all that we see so important today. Well, it's true that we talked, we gave this to him a few weeks ago, but it's also true that a few weeks ago the coronavirus appeared without warning and, obviously, it placed us in a very important health crisis, which is also having difficult economic and social consequences. It is clear that our look at these assumptions cannot be exactly the same as the one we had in the month of fever, when this pandemic had not arrived. The question, perhaps, that we should do today is whether these assumptions, whether approving these assumptions are as necessary as the government says and also as the common ones gather. Bearing in mind that there are assumptions that, when they were made, obviously and logically, there was no pandemic and, therefore, they cannot give an answer to this, nor can they incorporate any measure, and that, if they are approved today, they must change at the minute or have been approved, a logical appearance that can answer that they are not necessary or that they are not as necessary as you explain to us, because they are insufficient to manage this crisis and we already believe at that time, and we are also thinking, that they are insufficient to solve the problems that we have in the month of fever, the difficult problems that we already have in the month of fever, and they do not respond either to the means that they are, that they were also insufficient to solve the problems that we have in the month of fever, the difficult problems that we have in the month of fever, and they do not respond to the fact that they were not enough to solve the conditions that we had in the month of economic crisis. We believe that the Government, further away, therefore, to insist on the approval of these assumptions – and we have said this morning, Vice-President – what should have been done is to approve the Credit Amendment Act, in which we have taken steps to deal with some of these consequences. Some economic sectors, such as culture, tourism, commerce, restoration, self-employment, small and medium-sized enterprises, are going through very badly... We think that in Catalonia 95 percent of our businesses have fewer than two workers, that is to say, we are talking about micro-pipes, and these are going through very badly. Not because of a solvency problem, it's true, but because of a liquidity problem: at these times it's stopped economic activity and this is damaging them. We have imagined some economic measures to deal with this situation, as they have done – and this morning they have – some other administrations. The Valencian Administration has taken decisions and measures to promote the autonomous or economic sectors worth EUR 100-150 million; they are not very high figures, but they are figures that help at such a difficult time and that above all help at a certain time, because the crisis, therefore, will not always last, will be temporary. And, therefore, what we are asking for or what we have liked is a more important effort on the part of the Government of the Generality, as they have done, I insist, the Valencian Community, the assemblies, which are devoting a lot of effort without much help, or, for example, also the Barcelona Diputation. Look, even so, you insist that the premise be approved, because without this, therefore, there can be no increase in the expense floor and therefore no more resources can be devoted to these services than we have before, such as education or culture. We insist that this is not so, because, despite your presuppositional prorogation, you could have decreed it; in fact, you have done it other years. And more so because, escort, from the expense floor of the year 2017 to which they propose us today there is a difference of 3,000_million euros, it is true, the initial assumption of 2017 has 3,000_millions less than the one they propose in 2020. But when one looks at the liquidation of 2019 – which is certainly already published – then a veil that these 3,000_million have already been spent, they have already been spent. Because, among other things, during these three years, there have been changes in assumptions that have obviously incorporated more resources into the assumptions. Therefore, there are not 3,000_million euros for us to spend, unfortunately, that so much good, already we would like, and more than a few presuppositions to raise the expense floor, because this one was also modifying it over the years. Before Congressman Guinó – who now does not see him – spoke precisely in the sphere of the salvation of infra-financing. It's hard for me to remember only Saint Barbara when she's on the throne, isn't it? , because when we were discussing these assumptions and we gave them to you: « Listen, you are proposing a lower health assumption for 2020 than the one you spent in 2019 and, in parentheses, except for the expense you deserve, it is to say that it is much higher..., and we say to them: « Caldria review our healthcare architecture. Mrs d'Esquerra has said to me many times: "Coldria review our system. We have to see what inefficiencies are produced, open a debate about the health system... we said before, and we thought it was necessary to do so. It wasn't going to end, and now, well, now, we think it should. Welcome to the debate, but I think it's true that things must also be put in their fair measure. Miri, in any case, Vice President, we believe that today there are assumptions, star accounts, which will not serve anything at all. They do not serve the fever to solve the problems or anticipate the situation by the end of the day and will not serve to face the problems we have today. And I'd like to give you some examples; a few, because I don't have much time. Miri: poor child; it's a matter that concerns us, and a lot, and that probably after this crisis will worry us even more, because families will have been affected. So, the rate of poverty in Catalonia, above the Catalan middle, is at 21,3_per_cent; a 28_per_cent of this affects the youngest of seven years. It's a very worrying cipher. We were worried then. How many resources have we put in place for the poor child? Zero_euros. There were no more concrete resources for programmes that fought against the poor child. Well, now we might think it's important, but you didn't anticipate it either. I mean, this government's forecast and the odds of solving problems were very low. Now they might think it's more important. Well, we'll see – we'll see. Education. In education, exactly the same thing happens. The format level is a clear generating and perpetuating element of social inequalities; at a higher level of training, fewer opportunities, therefore, to be at risk of poverty, and therefore these are elements that we must also take into account in the educational sphere. We have seen that school segregation has increased, there have been studies that say that 36 percent of our student should change school because school segregation in Catalonia has disappeared, and you in those assumptions that they did not give us enough resources to that Pact against segregation. So either they would not resolve or try to solve the problems they had in the short term, nor would they pose or advance to futures or possible situations. With the big people, exactly the same. Forty percent of women over eighty-five years of age live alone, we are living in this pandemic as many live alone, and thanks to the help of family members, and also social workers, they are being accompanied. But what's the situation at the residences? Very hard, very dramatic and very distressing on the part of families who have a bird or a bird in these residences. Look, you don't even open a five-thousand square locked in day centers, nor do you open a five-thousand square that has large people's residences, nor build a single residence, nor do you even lay on the table a thing that is not worth money, which is to reflect on a new residential model, which may now, unfortunately, when Saint Barbara thrones, we now think that we should put it on the table. So we've already told them, and neither have we. In greeting, I said: the money that they own in 2020 has already been spent, it is to say that we will continue to deceive ourselves with the assumption of Salut. It's a deception, the presupposition of Greeting. We spend more and more than we put in the budget, and more and more we have bills in the country that we'll pay the next year. We could fix this. We don't understand why they're not covers... and be more honest and try to say what's the presupposition of Greeting, what is it? Because all these years, despite these increases, listening, have increased the waiting lists, we have failed the primary, we have mistreated the professionals... I told you this morning: now you will improve the conditions of the health professionals of the ICS, but not of the Siscat. Listen to me, this means that you and I, who are from Maresme, that the doctors who work at the Maresme Sanitary Consortium will not have these increases that they do have the ones from the ICS? You're unfair! That's why I'm saying, at eight o'clock in the afternoon, when we come out to clap, it's okay for us to do it, but then, when we make decisions, we try to take them for all the same and everyone can come out favored, because the work they're doing is very important, and we all recognize it. But recognition must also be done with resources. And in knowledge and research, Congressman Cano also said: We've had all the rectors here telling us that there wasn't enough funding for the universities and that they were living in a very complicated situation. Now that St Barbara's throne, now we're remembering the research and now we're remembering the universities. Clearly, 60 percent of the research is done at universities. Listen to me... and how much have we detailed the research and funding of universities over the last few years? A 30_per_cent. And now we have not improved it, because what has been put on the assumption is to deal with the increase in Chapter 1, that is, the amount to be paid more to the IDP, to the PAS; but there was no significant increase in funding. We are leaving the universities another time in a very difficult situation; among other things, because in this crisis we are living have had to make a brutal effort to buy plataform awards to be able to donate classes online, because, of course, they could have made an online class with two-hundred students, but not the amount of classes they are making in a virtual way. Many of them, such as the Generality, have also bought tablets from students, with Internet connection, because they say that approximately 10_percent of university students have digital bretxa problems, as do children's, primary and secondary education. So they're making an effort on how they don't have enough resources and, in change, they do it because they think it's what's around them. Therefore, we will also have to compensate those universities that are making these efforts to ensure that all students complete the course and to ensure that the 2020-2021 course starts with all the guarantees. I think that's what we should do and it's a measure that I think you could be near, too. But it's true that they mistreated this Department of Business and Knowledge a lot. They have not increased resources considerably in universities, but for example not in industry. I, of course, now... so important the industry, so important to produce Catalonia, so important that we don't have to go out and buy everything we need... well, the industry didn't have an increase in resources. In the knowledge industry, neither. We have made statements, for example, in this area, and in many others. We didn't have a dialogue with the government to see if we were able to approve any of this, did we? And we had research papers for the knowledge industry and we also had research papers to improve research or innovation. Now, I say again, we remember all that. Therefore, he means that his look at the month of generation was a look that did not respond to either short or medium. He knows hard. And obviously, already, before a crisis, I don't respond to everyone, everyone. Therefore, there was no need to approve the assumptions; we could be making assumptions changes and have won at least six weeks. But we think it's only a matter of regret now, because we do, because it's true that we're telling them more than one month ago that they're counting on us for what you need, but we haven't had a conversation, so say, honest or honest with you to see if you were able to accept any of our ideas, to move on to these presuppositional changes. Home, if you would accept me a thought about the knowledge industry, so, miri, we'd already had it done, wouldn't we? We haven't had this honest dialog that you sometimes talk about so much. It's hard for us to know. I must also say, Vice-President, that it is strange to ask for a visit by the end of a government which, with the words of its President, is divided and exhausted, right? Clearly, if it's divided and exhausted, so it seems hard for me to have a vision at the end of what needs to happen, doesn't it? And if you have a joint, collaborative, cooperative country visit... it seems difficult and, for what we see, impossible. We, in any case, believe that in order to face this crisis that you need more than ever the union, the sum, build together. And I hope it's between you, and then with the rest, with the rest. We think it's everyone's effort to let go of some partisan fights between you and the rest. It is very important that at these times we remain generous and have the ability, the height of sight to try to add and to try to build. Look, we'd have understood more or we'd understand more if you brought us today these final assumptions accompanied or worked, I'm not saying to approve them today, but accompanied by decrees to modify these assumptions. That's to say, you said to us: "Look, we approve of this assumption, that we already know that it is obsolete, that it is sterile, but, listen to me, we have already worked with the groups all these decrees that we will take to approve from here one month. That's not what they did; that's why we still don't hear it at today's approval. We're asking him, Vice President, and I don't know if he'll listen to us – the time is hard, and everyone's willingness – to call on all parliamentary groups to talk about these changes; not just the common ones, who have agreed on the assumption. The situation before the pandemic was one, in relation to the parliamentary group that will support them; today there is another. We think that I've listened to everyone, that everyone can bring. I honestly, and I repeat again, the change of attitude of Ciutadans, I think he honors them and I think that, listening, he must respect himself. We haven't been used to it, and I think these interventions that have taken place today need to be listened to and received. Therefore, let us hope that before this difficult hour, before this difficult situation, you, therefore, do what you have to do. In any case, we will not support these assumptions, which, moreover, have not incorporated any of our ideas, there has been no dialogue in this sense. They are the same roughly, in a 98_per_cent, that the ones who taught us the month of generation, some stellar assumptions of an exhausted and divided government. Now, all right, and so on, and ours not today, let's, let's keep our hands up. Today the president of our parliamentary group has given President Torra a document of a pact for reconstruction, which is what we believe this country needs, and we hope that at this time we will all be able to live up to the circumstances. We believe that we cannot discover the citizens who are so poorly painted, those who have lost a family member or those who have family members in hospital or in residence, but also those businesses, those autonomies who are actually seeing their situation very delicate and with great anxiety and concern. So, I hope for the sake of looking into the eyes of these people you are also generous. Let some partisan struggles and follow the cover, therefore, of sister, talk and wake up. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.210.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.211.0	Well, thank you very much, President, and good afternoon to all of you. This isn't a normal assumption debate. We are ahead of a health and social emergence, and that is why I do want to take advantage of this speech to put forward some reflections that go a little further than the moment's immediacy. Today we are celebrating here this first plenary after the decree of state of alarm and after weeks of much patience, of the loss of loved ones and of consciousness, also of our fragility. Weeks when we have seen that all economic forecasts have collapsed, where the uncertainty for what will come and how we will do it is absolute, and weeks when citizenship has demonstrated once more that goes before the institutions, with a capacity for responsibility and enormous sacrifices. We have seen it in the health professionals, who are double-crossing, who have few resources, who are playing salvation and who are saving our lives; in the staff of the residents, who, with some absolutely precarious working conditions, are making hands and hands to listen to our opinions and our lives; in the pharmacists; in the supermarket lockers; in the riders, who are patenting even more labor exploitation than they already suffer – they should be illegal behaviors like those adopted by the company Glovo. We also see it in the neteja staff, in the transporters, in the educators and social educators, in the people who kept public transport running, in the pagesia, in the workers and workers of the factories. In all of them we see that only the people save the people, and from all of them we learn. Also from the people of culture, who are enriching our soul and who do, moreover, that these weeks of confinement follow a little more bearable. And so are the journalists, who are guaranteeing our right to information. And, of course, this recognition and gratitude is also to all the entities that are pursuing solid initiatives to address this social and health crisis. And to all the citizens who are staying at home and who every day at eight o'clock in the afternoon are cheering on the professionals who are saving our lives and who, moreover, are generating networks of mutual support. And obviously I would also like to make a special mention here of the children and the children, who carry months and months locked home and who suffer not only from confinement, but also the direct consequences of the inequality that runs into us as a country. I am convinced – and this is the first reflection – that the best gratitude and the best recognition we can make to each of these people is to offer them security. And you can imagine that I'm not talking about Mr. Buch's safety, Mr. Marlaska's safety, or Mrs. Margarita Robles' safety. I am talking about the security of arriving at the end of the month, of having a guaranteed minimum life, of having decent living conditions and of having strong public servants, who always – always – are the ones who answer. And, in fact, these past weeks are talking a lot about public services, and it has to be made clear that the only democratic way to keep and shield these public services is through the assumptions of the administrations. And the question is easy: where does the money come from the assumptions of the administrations? So it's clear: taxes. Therefore, the chain is simple: taxes, assumptions, public services. And, besides, the logic is flattering: as more taxes pay the rich – because this is because each one pays according to its abilities – so the greater the assumptions will be; the more solid, the stronger and the more robust the public services will be. You're a dungeon. And so let's let them bring these assumptions forward – and this is the second reflection – because they are accompanied by a fiscal reform that is progressive and that is brave. But, besides, we also do it out of responsibility, because making assumptions would suppose us to spend another time a year without assumptions, because everyone here knows that some assumptions trig_mess in elaboration. Because there are more than 3,000_million euros more spent if we compare it with the ones we have extended, they contain 900_million euros extra for health, with 1,400 professionals more, with a decree to reduce waiting lists, they double some of the resources to fight against masculinist violence, they cover a part of the financing of schools in Brazil or they have a drop of 30_percent for university taxes and they increase the share of guaranteed income from citizenship. Therefore, with these 3,000_million euros more it will be easy, or at least it will be a little easier, to make the plan of shock than clear that it needs Catalonia. Catalonia now does not just need assumptions, it needs a plan of shock that reinforces these assumptions. And in the third place we also let them pull forward because we have the word and because when we commit ourselves to fulfillment. I think there are people who don't care about the word, but we do. And besides, Catalonia now needs certain things. Therefore, we had a compromise, this agreement will be reinforced with a plan of shock, and therefore let it pull forward. You can see that in any of the reasons I've given you talk about a endorsement of this government. Why? So why do we disagree deeply with this government. In substance and in form, in discord. But two ideas: assumptions mean education, sanitation, residences, industry, feminism; and the second: because now it is more than ever necessary to remarry together, and we are told from the first moment, it is the moment of cooperation. And we know – and here goes the third reflection – who this government is and what it does, we are fully conscious. You see without a doubt – I think it's very obscene evidence – that this government is trying to wear down the central government and the political space that I am now representing in an absolutely irresponsible way. And whatever excuse is good, whatever, the most absurd, even all the mask names the central government sends to Catalonia. And we also know who this government is, at least in part: we know that it is those who have supported labour reform; those who are against pushing taxes to the rickets, and that is why we have to redo them in tax reform; those who allow the Mosos to work with mafias like Desokupa in the denunciation of families; they are those who have cut down and privatize public health; they are those who have been privileged for concerted education, or they are those who have commercialized essential spheres of life, such as residences. And, unfortunately, we allow these assumptions to move forward, because the common people know that always, but mainly when things get complicated, when the situation is the most fucked up, always who is there are the public servants and their workers and workers. And I'm not going to go into a little bit of an absurd argument about whether the virus knows about territories or not; that leaves it to some, if they want to unravel on Twitter. What's clear is that this virus understands social classes, and now the most patenting are the low ones, and we won't let them go. So, while some insult us in social networks, while others retweet the insults of social networks, we will let Catalonia have assumptions. Because we're not thinking about ourselves, we're not thinking about the government, but we're thinking about the country. And in the end, it's a matter of priorities and responsibilities. And here's the fourth reflection, which is: getting to the assumptions, but I make it clear that what we need is a shoal and that this shoal, as I said, is the best tool to get to this shoal. And we also need to start thinking about the medium and the short term of an agreement for life, because we can't go back to the same point we came from and why we need to rethink... to have a new social and economic model that remains sustainable. So it's three ways: assumptions, plan of shoc, agreement for life, that have an objective sun, that is to convert our fragility into axes of sovereignty to the service of life. As I have already said, Catalonia needs it in an urgent way and it must strengthen those parties that we have already given in the assumptions. Priority must be given to increasing investment and resources for salvation, not just thinking about the situation we have right now, but thinking that there were a lot of people who were already on the waiting list before the health crisis and that, therefore, they would have to be stuck in the major immediate, once out of this health crisis. Secondly, it is necessary to monitor and review the behaviour of companies to ensure that no one makes a fraudulent use of ERTO or that they take advantage of adventurousness to take in workers or workers. It is necessary to expand resources in social fields, from childhood to residence. And also, obviously, we can send help to the gatherings, which are facing the crisis in the first line, which are even assuming responsibilities and competences that are not their own, but which in the end are the ones that never fail the citizen and the citizens. On guaranteed income from citizenship, we should expand our assumptions and coverage. The government knows that we introduced it, we proposed, in fact, a decree, and, therefore, we would like to see it drawn as soon as possible. Research and science must also be a priority, and protection to industry, so as not to lose jobs, rethinking, if necessary, production, and more adhering to the ecological transition. And last, but also very important, help yourself, to peppers... And also think of the specific needs of the cultural sector, which is already apathy and which we are now aware will suffer much more. All these points should be on the rock floor. But we can't stay here because we don't consider it the time to put pieces; we need to think of a little bit in the middle of it, like at least. So, it's time to decide which country model we want. And this is not to be done alone, this is to be done through a process of participation in an agreement for life, where political forces, unions, employers, the municipal world must be involved, but also where the people who know more about the feminist economy, the economic transition or the social, solidarity and cooperative economy must be involved. All the talent we have in Catalonia must be exploited, because the size of what we have before us is enormous, it is absolute, but also the potential we have as the country is. I believe that the 2008 financial crisis, or even the whole crack of the 29th, can be short if we compare it to the situation we will have from now on, and the only European reference that comes up is the devastation generated by the Second World War. And that tells us at least two things right now. On the one hand, we are ahead of a real change at the time, this is a historical cruelty, and in this transition we have to decide whether it is a democratic key, with an ecological transition of our economy, with an expansion of rights in a feminist key and putting life at the centre, or we have to recognise that there can also be a democratic backlash, with a nationalist retreat, a new authoritarianism and a strengthened austerity. Catalunya has to decide where to play. I am convinced that it will choose, as always, the good side. But to do so, I need to weave alliances, and I have the feeling that it's not on the right path. And, on the other hand, what we're also being told at this point is that the current economic system doesn't work. The system's seams have been seen and, as I said before, inequality has broken us as a country. It has been shown that the networks of cures are essential but invisible Romanesque and as unprotected we are with a health system that is weakened by privatizations and the retails of the Spanish governments, but also Catalans; with social services mercantilized and a staff that is absolutely precarious; with a dismantled industry, with difficulty to provide us with the most basic materials, and with an economic model, in short, that is dependent on finance, that is based on the economy of tourism, the speculation of housing and of renderers that are playing at the casino with our money. And while, therefore, we see dramatic scenes, such as those we have seen in the residences, a critical situation with our opinions and our avies, who are the people who have guaranteed us all the rights so far, who have built a welfare system, who have taken care of us, who have pushed us forward and now see unprotected from any right. And all this, too, with families of anxiety who don't know what to do. Therefore, I believe that this situation can never be repeated again, and that is why in this agreement for life we have to shield and democratize the essential services – health, education, social matters – to dignify the working conditions of its professionals. We also need to relocate the industry and not fall into past mistakes. Mens ball culture and more intelligent reversal to rebuild our industrial fabric. Menys speculative economy, which is predatoring and destroying our territory, and more collaborative, proximity and plural economy. Precarious, unrighteous and submissive workers to the great placards and most trained, right and trade union workers. And, in short, less hard rock and more green chord. My country can't be either the backseat or the abboteur of the other country. Just as a part of the world cannot continue to feel stripped of all its common assets, turning them into impoverished areas, when paradoxically they are the richest areas in natural resources. Let us think of a territorial clause, a food sovereignty, a guarantee for everyone to have a decent rest and a guarantee of the logic of the market for all the benefits that are basic and that are essential. We have to work folds wherever we go, but we have to be clear where we can't go back. And that's the fifth thought. We can't negotiate or speculate on our rights. It is not possible to grow unlimitedly, directly blowing up the planet, which is what we are doing. Therefore, we have to walk towards a post-growth model. There can be no first and second citizens, depending on where they come from. And the more the work of cures can be pre-characterized, invisible, or underprivileged. And three ideas to move forward. This civilizing change, the new democratic social contract, this public armoring, can only be pulled forward with a premise, which is with a radical redistribution of wealth. It's no longer what I'm saying, it's no longer what I'm saying in Common We can: it's what institutions say so few suspicions of communists like the International Monetary Fund or chieftains like the Financial Times. Because, if we listen to the president defending a universal basic income, we agree; but it must be said very high and clear that it is absolutely incompatible with a suspension of general payment of taxes, lock in the big companies, lock in the wealthiest people. This is about a magical thought that goes against the popular classes of this country. And I also want to insist: a universal basic income is very good, but it is very good if it is included in a global strategy, which also goes through to shield public servants. If not, it's leaving all responsibility at the individual level, it's not generating community and it's not necessarily a progressive response. Therefore, yes to universal basic income, yes to redistribution of wealth with taxes and yes to armoring of public services. The second idea. The second idea is that the answer we give from Catalonia must recognize that we are immersed in a global context, that it is state and that it is European. Therefore, Catalonia can lead a progressive fate, but, I insist, if it wants to have a main role, it has to seek alliances. Europe itself is now playing the credibility and viability of the project. Either act as an actuator before the extreme right or there will be no Europe. It is to say, or we guarantee the rights or the alternative will be Orbán, it will be Salvini or it will be Abascal. I'm the third one. Surely – surely – the central government could have done many better things. Surely; I'm not convinced. The central government, the Catalan government and all the governments of the world. But what is indisputable is that it is giving a response that is different, radically different, to that of 2008. We can discuss the intensity of the measures, but their direction is the right one. He is now rescuing people, families, workers, peppers and autonomes. If after 2008 the PP made the labor reform, now the ERTOs have become more flexible, they have put themselves in the way of help for the workers of the lar, and also a minimum income to care for families. While Rajoy's government has accelerated the express charges, the government has today suspended the charges, applied a moratorium on the payment of mortgages and loggers, and is guaranteeing basic sub-governments. While Rajoy's government has detailed public services, and even all health, expel migrant people from the health care right, today what we want is to advance into a great transformation to shield rights. Therefore, it is clear that the whole world can do better; but criticism must be constructive and not destructive. This morning President Torra said that we need the State to play in our favor, because otherwise, we won't get out of it, and I agree. But if they want the state to play in our favor, the first thing they should do is stop lying, stop insulting and stop making statements that are shameful. And the thing is, when the general assumptions of the state come in, they do like us here, it's easy, they're still responsible, they don't do magic and they don't fall on them. I'm done. From a station in Catalonia he'll have a few presuppositions. They do the favor, on the same day... we demand that on the same day they have them at the disposal of the citizenry that needs them the most. And I'll tell them we'll be loving, we'll be controlling what that is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.212.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.213.0	MPs, MPs, Vice-Presidents, we first wanted to make a statement, and it is that in this country some people are double-oppressing it: the oppression of rights and freedoms for the Catalan government and for Spanish justice. Today, outside, there was to be a concentration of protest for the premises, with sanitary distancing measures, and the Interior Department banned it by suggesting that the right of assembly was suspicious. When the High Court of Justice today had to resolve the protestors' complaint, the court has completely ruled the department that it was not competent, because who is now the government authority is the Ministry of the Interior. Some deny us political rights by engaging in the state of alarm and others eliminate our competitions by engaging in the same state. Two different ways to get to the same state, to get to the denial of the right of assembly, one of the essential pillars of all those states that claim to be democratic. Now yes, let's go into the valuation of assumptions. They present us with outdated and modified assumptions, designed six months ago and that do not take into account the current needs of a town that still suffers from the effects of the 2008 financial crisis. A crisis that has to be endured by the majority of people and workers, at the cost of privatization and retailing, especially women. We arrive at this situation with other taxes of precariousness, poorness and inequality. And this is the consequence of retailing and privatizations that kill and have consequences. It is the precarious workers who have to sustain the health emergency situation, without the necessary resources, with the burden and emotional stress that this presupposes for the professionals, and especially for the most vulnerable: the great people, the infants, the disabled, the people with mental health problems. One day the applause is going to become an organized response. Yesterday the workers of the Hospital Clínic showed themselves under the slogans« Retailing in sanitation is murdered, « We are not heroes, we are workers. It is very difficult to understand why at the beginning of an economic, economic and social crisis without precedent the Government, together with Catalonia in Comú Pode, perseveres in the adoption of assumptions that prioritize the payment of debt to banks over education, sanitation or social services. The highest and highest game that grows from all the assumptions is the game destined for the payment of the debt. In concrete terms, this game grows by 75_per_cent if we compare it to 2017 assumptions and by 31_per_cent if we compare it to 2019 executions, a total of 10,500_million euros more than the educational or social parties together. We see they're talking about a social welfare plan today, but it's been a long time since the social welfare plan has been working on social movements. Mrs Albiach has spoken of economic agents, employers, those who know about the feminist economy, but we may also have to talk about the social movements that have been gathering for a long time to trace this plan of work, that are workers and users of public services and that know very well the needs of these services. They also say that making this plan is better on assumptions that suppose more than 3,000_million euros on extended assumptions. So yes, about the extended assumptions, but not about the assumptions of the past year. Explain to the people there, by transparency, that of these 3,000_million euros you have already spent 1,700, with the extended assumptions of the year 2018 and 2019, and that these are money that, although they are consolidated, are no longer there. Explain that of the remaining 1,300_million euros, the majority will stop paying the bonds with public workers, which have long been due. Also explain that the one who is left will go to cover the trend expense. And what's trend spending? So, for example, in sanitation, if there is a population aging, there is a population growth, so sanitation costs more money to lend it, and, therefore, this is said to be a trending increase in spending, to which we must face because things are kept as they are. Also explain that these expenses have been produced in the same way with an increase... in extended assumptions. They also tell us that 900 of these €3,000_million will go to health. In a change, Josep Maria Puig, secretary general of Metges de Catalunya, in an article to Critic claims that false headlines have been generated and explains very clearly that these assumptions do not reverse nor only the details. In fact, concretely that the presumption destined for salvation is of 86_million euros less if we compare it to that of the year 2010. And it adds that there has been an inflation of 16,3_per_cent in Catalonia, that it is to be subtracted from the accounts, and that, therefore, the real assumption is of approximately 8,190_million euros, which are 1,700_million euros less than those that were expected for 2010. Left and Catalonia in Comú We can also be told that these assumptions reverse the retail trade across the public sector. In fact, Mrs. Albiach says that these assumptions mean education, sanitation, residences... So, look, in the area of sanitation we have not only been able to prove that these assumptions do not reverse the retailing, as we have already said, but that the collectors in struggle, such as the White Sea, Focap, Rebel·lió Primària, denounce that the few resources contemplated by the premise are intended to promote the criteria for the protection of private interests, over social welfare and public health and public health. In fact, a clear example is the EUR 43.400 allocated by the Government to private sanitation for ICUs. All these collections claim a health-care system of provision, ownership and management of one hundred_per_cent publics, as the only guarantee of a quality service. In the same vein, workers in the home care service and large-scale residents are also manifest in the socio-sanitary community. In the field of education, the educational community complains that the assumptions consolidate the model of public-private management, where the public and private sectors coexist with the same rights, and that this advances towards the privatization of sanitation. They claim that 8 per cent increase in the funding of private equity centres is achieved, despite the decrease in the number of students in these centres, and that this represents twice the increase in the total education requirement. And they also reported that the educational centres still have a 19_per_cent less requirement than the year 2010 and do not have the human and material resources needed to attend to the student increase or to ensure inclusive education. And make sure that these assumptions don't go back in the field of education. In the field of social services, users and workers complain that the assumptions consolidate a model of management that allows large enterprises, sometimes under the appearance of false cooperatives or unprofitable entities, to become richer with the most vulnerable. They claim that it does not only precarious the workers, this model, but that it stigmatizes the users and leaves many others out of the social welfare system. For another band, the Nature Conservation Network complains that, if these assumptions were insufficient, they are still more insufficient and always leave environmental policies as second-hand policies. For another band, we want to make it clear that we have submitted hundreds of papers to these assumptions, so then they don't say that we're just criticizing and that we don't make proposals. He didn't approve of one. You'll have the opportunity to vote on them again at the end of this session. They have the opportunity to allocate 5_percent of the debt's departure to respond to urgent social needs; EUR 500_million for a universal guaranteed income; EUR 20_million for the strengthening of the public sector; EUR 20_million more to reactivate the economic and productive fabric of our country, an economic fabric with a social and environmental return, so that we do not run from sectors as volatile as automotive, tourism or construction, in order to respond to all those autonomous, small trade, cooperatives, who have been forced to lower their Persians, to which you have only allocated EUR 7.5_million. They also have the opportunity to approve a cross-cutting fund with 20_million euros to guarantee and expand the public housing stock. We propose a courageous tax reform, which attacks 4_percent of the richest population. And, look, we don't know who's interested in these assumptions, we don't know who's interested in the votes that will be given green light to these assumptions, but the President's Counsellor said today that it's time to let go of partisan and party interests, the Vice President has repeated it today, and that's precisely why we're voting against these assumptions, because they're a new condemnation to the popular classes. So it has been denounced by more than one hundred entities that comply with the Platform in Defense of Public Servants, the old platform against the Aragonese law. We will do this out of responsibility with the health workers and those who support the healing work under conditions of extreme precariousness. We will also do so for the community networks that, before capitalism and patriarchy, which still fills it, still build it. For those who today are organized in front of institutional racism and the imposition of a police state that plays with the most unprotected, we will vote against these assumptions. It's over, President. Today's disjunct is between rescuing people or serving the interests of a few. They think of families without work, young people without vital projects or expectations, the need not to fill the fridge, in the anxiety of wondering when the bank will call for not paying a waste. Before each denunciation, each privatization and each accompaniment, the voice today silences and abuses will become an organized response.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.214.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.215.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members, my first words are to add to the sympathy shows we have shown today to the relatives and friends of people who have died in this health crisis, and also to the people who are sick, to the health personnel, but also to all those who make this life of confinement a little more light. We're here to talk about assumptions that were initially approved in this hemisphere last February, and wanted to make some little comparison data, right? The growth forecast on the assumption we have on the table-to-day side of today's table is a growth forecast of '1,9_per_cent. At the latest forecast of the same government of the Generalitat, the forecast of growth was of the '1,6. Today, the estimates that there are...., there are two, one of the International Monetary Fund, which talks about that in Spain the GDP will fall from the order of an 8_per_cent, and the last, of the Bank d'Espanya, which paints, draws three scenes: in the best of the cases, the fall would be of the 6,6_per_cent; in the worst of the cases, of the 13,6_per_cent. We also had two_months ago a forecast of the weather in the assumptions of 9.5_per_cent, and today we don't know what the weather will be at the end of 2020, but today, among the people who are busy and who are affected by a temporary regulating ship, we can be talking about the 30_per_cent of Catalans who are more or less stable or temporarily at the weather, right? Therefore, we do not know what we are talking about, because the assumptions that were presented two months ago and the assumptions that were to be presented today, with all the logical uncertainties of the situation, are obviously not the same. And it's not going to be that they need 3,000 million euros more than there are in these assumptions than there were in the assumptions of 2017, because, they've already been told by other Members, but 2019 you spent, not 3,000, 3,600 million dollars more than those you had in the assumptions of 2017, and it was an extended assumption. Therefore, with this assumption we are providing for an expenditure of EUR 600_million under what you have paid out in the 2019 financial year. Of course, the starting situation is what it is, and it is negative, because they closed 2009 with a deficit of 0.56_percent of GDP, with an excess of expenditure of 1.330_million euros. In this scene, there are some items that we are voting for and that we are also asking ourselves and wondering if they are valid for assumptions that are not valid. So, obviously, the reviews that we have presented by most groups are certainly not valid. But we, as a minimum, feel satisfied and satisfied with what we have presented, because they have a certain horizon that is not incompatible with the clock that is going on from this moment on. What do you mean? So, look, if I may, we believe that at this point in time the government and the government's fiscal policy must be oriented towards more social policy, to boost the economy and less process – more social policy, to boost the economy and less process – and in a way much more intense than it is, with these same parameters, two months ago. And in this sense our papers are oriented here, not to these three ideas. In this new scener, obviously– because I think it's worth talking more about the future than these assumptions, which are part of the past–, in this scener we'll obviously have, more expense, less tickets, jump through the air the estabilitative forecasts– there's already skipped the past year without a health crisis–, and therefore we'll have to prioritize and do it well. And you know that, too much, we don't trust you, do we? Two months ago we told them: they spend more, but they spend badly. And now it will be..., it may be justified, that it is spent more, but I try to do it right, because what they spend more now will be paid tomorrow, and, therefore, it is worth having it present. Its priorities were more social policy. And in this sense allow me two ambits. Obviously, in the toilet. And the starting point is what it is, with a spending forecast of 720_millions of entry deficit; and deficit, only pharmaceutical expense, in the situation two_months ago. And you're talking to us now that the bill for this health crisis will rise approximately, over 1,800_million euros. Therefore, if the assumption that they have is absolutely insufficient to attend to deficiencies, let's say, two months ago of sanitation – for example, strengthening primary care and reducing waiting lists – with the assumptions that they present us today and that they will approve today will still be more difficult; among other things, because you simply spent the past year already 900_million euros more than what you have approved on this assumption. A tweezer. A brush, because it was said in the morning, I've heard several times this from "the health detail of the PP and the health detail of the health detail. So yes, the trimmings. In Spain, the average health care retail in all these years has been '1,3_per_cent and, for example, in Greece has been 43_per_cent. Greece, for example, has ruled and applied these retail – the most widely applied retail across Europe – Alexis Tsipras. Home, parents, German cosins of Pond, right? Magnificent. But the difference is that with this volume of retails in Greece there have been 2,400 infected and 127 dead. Only in Catalonia – and I say Catalonia because the volume of inhabitants of Spain is quite different; Greece has 11_million inhabitants – so in Catalonia we have 46,000 infected, according to the official competence, and 5,400 dead. Therefore, the clippings must not be. We can look for the reason in other places, but it gives me the impression that the details cannot be and must not be, and if not, also Portugal. We say: priority, sanitation. Another priority: social matters and families. Great people, residences... it's absolutely no use for us to keep our life expectancy bigger and higher than the whole planet if we don't look after our great people afterwards. And we didn't know that. And we have to. We need to rethink the model of care for the big people, we need to rethink the model of care for residents. We can't let anyone back in this situation. This is why guaranteed income focused on employment is important. As I said before, 403,000 unemployed in Catalonia, more than 685,000 workers affected by temporary employment regulation shippers. Undoubtedly, temporary employment regulation shippers reinforced to the labour reform of the People's Party that We can be willing to load, even before yesterday. I don't know if they're still willing to carry on with this labor reform that at least has allowed 685,000 Catalans to give a transitory exit. Part of social policy, part of economic policy, more impetus to the economy: industrial policy. Two months ago we were talking about the fevers in the industrial sector, the loss of jobs in the industrial sector. And it's obvious that a new bet for the industry will be hot. The Pact for Industry is a good tool, but we do not know whether, with the situation that will remain after this health crisis, it will be enough or not. But, obviously, we have to put the emphasis on it, in the industrial sector, because it represents 20_percent of the wealth generated in Catalonia. And a sector that concerns us very, very much: the tourism sector. There are 400,000 people living in the tourism sector. However, while in other economic sectors there is a pattern of this situation with low percentages of activity, in change, in the tourism sector the percentage of activity is practically zero – zero. And it will be difficult to recover activity in this sector, if it is not that we give it an important boost in order to recover this part of the economic activity. Therefore, let your process also go, take care of the quality of life of all, of all Catalans, with independence from whether they are independent or not independent, and, therefore, take advantage of all the expenses that are addressed in your process. And our discussions also go this way: to devote these resources precisely to social policies and economics. We'll keep the shortcomings we already had: 824,000 Catalans in waiting lists, 400,000 unemployed, 135,000 families in the social housing petition register, 75,000 resource assignment dependents and more than 20,000 students in barracks. These assumptions do not respond to these needs, and much less can respond to the needs we have at this time, the fruit of this health emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.216.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is the return of Mr Lluís Salvado. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.217.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councilwoman, deputies and deputies, very late everyone. We are in agreement to begin this intervention as we have done every day, and it is conveying the condolences of my parliamentary group and the staff to all the families of people who have died as a result of this pandemic. Giving thanks also, as you have also done to all people, to all the workers and workers who during these days, during these weeks, have risked a great deal in their personal lives to work for the common good, above all the health personnel, the personnel who, as has also been said, work for the residents of the great people, the safety things. Give thanks to all the public servers and servers that are part of this huge security network represented by the Public Administration of Catalonia. And to thank also the compromise of the people of the third sector, who strengthen this network, the people who are devoted to home care, to the cures, and the workers and the workers who, despite the crisis, each day go to their place of work. And above all, we also deeply support those people who have seen their main source of income slashed: the wage earners, the self-employed, the small entrepreneurs. It's obvious that after what we're living, nothing will be the same. Someone has expressed that the world is not over, but that the world will be over as we have known it so far. These weeks are representing a certain cure of humility, a bane of reality for humanity, which we feel very vulnerable as a society before a strongly disrupted impact on our salvation, on our economy and, in general, on our way of life. We may have thought that pandemics were a thing of the past or that they were reserved for other parts of the world, and that to Western Europe of the 21st century this could not pass. Unfortunately, we are discovering these last few years that many things that we thought could not be passed on to the Western Europe of the 21st century, to the democratic Europe, to the socially advanced Europe, to pass on. We would, all over the world, prepare to face these global challenges for the future, and we will be able to push changes at all levels; changes that go far beyond our competence, within the WHO, the same European Union, but above all, from administrations, territorial or regional, like ours, rather than, in the end, more than anyone who wants to carry out a certain process, often fictitious, of re-centralisation, at the end – in the end – which is at the first quarter, which is from the proximity supporting and managing this crisis is the Government of Catalonia and we are the territorial and regional administrations. We have seen these days the limits and restrictions of the current model, of the current health protection system, both globally and locally. And of course it will be necessary to increase reliability, speed and responsiveness in the future of all these systems. And, unfortunately, we have also seen again the limitations of the European institutions; we have seen that, when the more they fail, during the health crisis, the more they have been absent. The states of the Union, instead of cooperating, have ended up competing for medical and people protection resources. And, far from responding to the height of what we assume as the world's most powerful public social protection and health networks, we in Europe have ended up concentrating more than 60_percent of the deaths caused by the world's coronavirus. We hope that the whole network of European bodies – the Eurogroup, the European Council, the European Commission – will take extraordinary economic decisions before a situation that is absolutely extraordinary. Decisions which must guarantee the political and social cohesion of a European Union which is more in crisis than ever before and which must immediately restore the occupation as quickly as possible, avoid the destruction of the productive force and accompany the states to assume the extraordinary current expenditure intended for the health and social protection network. Decisions that above all must create internal resilience and link the recovery strategy to economic and digital transitions, and also connect it to lessons after these weeks. We have an economic recovery fund and a European investment plan that provides transfer resources – and not just loan or debt – to the Member States, on the one hand, businesses and workers, and people on the other. And so that the Spanish State brings these resources to the nearby administrations, to which we give a real response to the crisis, and stops announcing every week that it will advance the money that Catalans and Catalans paid two years ago, as if they were doing us a great favor. The Spanish State, after Belgium, has so far been the second state in the world with the relative major mortality caused by the pandemic, and in Catalonia we are in the middle of the Spanish State. I'm sure all the representatives of the institutions are much more useful if we are able to cooperate than if we dedicate ourselves to assigning the other, which we could have done better. And surely the historical singularity of the moment we are living has had a bit of trial and error, and we need to recognize it. And who didn't manage it wasn't wrong. And it is certainly not now, yet, the moment of the criticism of the background of the measures taken by each of the public administrations; it will come. But, nevertheless, we cannot fail to make reference and to criticize certainly forms, a certain slowness and improvisation that the Spanish Government has practiced, even though it is also worth recognizing that some of the economic and social decisions that it has before can be partially shared. But in any case, let me talk about a moment of these forms, of a liturgy and of a scenario closer to the 19th century than the 21st century, a free display of green uniforms closer to Vox than Podemos's, military and police units monitoring social networks of journalists and critical policies, an ideological relativism that has brought neither efficiency nor economies of scale, nor solutions to the management of this crisis. This episode has to represent, for another band, a general and global learning respect for the organizational and governance models that have been most successful. If there has been a reference during the day, but someone will have to analyze in depth why the most decentralized system in Europe, Germany, has been one of the best answer that has been able to give to this crisis. Salvation, the social welfare of the people, is managed better from a proper despatx, not from six-cents_kilometres of distance. It's proximity, it's efficiency, it's knowledge of reality that makes us more effective. The quickness in the decision making – also made reference a while ago – that has not demonstrated the Spanish State, will surely be the variable that will determine the most success or failure of the management of this crisis for each of the administrations. Mr Rodríguez makes reference: Greece, the most fragile state in Europe, but with much agility in the making of decisions, at these times will overcome the crisis with one of the most remarkable successes. The Government of Catalonia, for its part, has managed to put people's lives at the centre of all government action. The Health Department, with the Vergés Councillor, but especially with the enormous commitment of all health personnel, have been able to respond effectively to the impact of the crisis on the health of people. The capacity of the health system has been resized at once, and its collapsing, as in other territorial areas, has been avoided by tripling the number of ICU beds, with more staff, with more equipment, with more beds. But also the crisis – and it is important to stress this – has laid out some structural weaknesses in our social protection network and our health system. It has become more evident than ever the infra-financing of Catalonia, a structural deficit that affects in a very special way our system of salvation, our system of dependence, and we hope that the PSOE and that we can put them right urgently. This crisis has also made it more urgent that, as has also been mentioned, the need for a model change in the management of residences for large people, where there is certainly a need for greater public control and, more importantly, a more healthful view than we had until today. And they also expressed the differences caused by the digital divide over the education system and the equality of opportunities, both at the social and territorial levels. A Bretxa that since the Department of Education has minimized with the help of all the assemblies of our country, at a time remembering and with certain conditions of work, obviously and manifestly, very difficult. This territorial Bretxa – also to recognize it – has tried and is working from the Department of Territorial Policies to explore it, to make an urgent deployment of optical fiber, a deployment that four days ago some here posed in doubt. And of course we will have to face a profound change of priorities in the future. We cannot have a public system of health protection and social protection of first division and a fiscal pressure of second division. We cannot be German if we lead the tax fraud or if we lead the fiscal deficit that deigns us with the country a year ago. The structural changes that our country needs are leading to this crisis, and we will not only implement them on the basis of the assumptions that we will adopt today. Nor will these assumptions only solve the climate emergency or solve the digital transition we need to bring to completion. But these assumptions are an important step forward, they are the first stone, they are a good foundation on which to rebuild the future, on which to make future presuppositional modifications that everyone knows will be able to carry out. And if not, without any doubt, they are a much better tool than the assumptions of 2017 to face this future and, especially, to face the current crisis. These assumptions advance in the mark of the master lines that must give answer to the conjunctural reptes, but also above all to the structural reptes of the country, and, as you know, stand out from these Objects of the millenni. These assumptions contribute more resources, more fiscal pressure, more taxes to which more economic capacity, less tax fraud, more Catalan tax agency, more salutation, more masters, more teachers, more health personnel, more pressure for the Health Department, more resources for social protection, less digital bretsa, more CTTI, more deployment of optical fiber, more public transport, more green taxation, more taxes for polluting vehicles, more resources for minimum guaranteed income. Deeply face transcendent debates, debates that we held before the coronavirus and that today are more effective than ever, sadly, and more necessary than ever. Debates that go beyond these same assumptions and that we have to reopen today, we have to deal with this pandemic, but above all without delaying tomorrow's setbacks. Discussions about which, in dealing with these assumptions, we have deeply disagreed with some opposition groups. We can't go up to this cliff and claim more money for everything and then oppose the push of taxes, as some have done today, this late, once more. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is not possible to demand responsibility from the Catalan parties of Congress every fifteen days and today to line up here on the coast of Ciutadan and the People's Party. We cannot ask here for more resources for all, a tax reform, without there, where the PSOE and the common governments are not yet done today..., and where 95_percent of the taxes paid by Catalans and Catalans are defined, there is still no meaning of tax reform in depth. And it is not possible to ask the debate of totality two months and a half ago, here in this chamber, that we cannot approve assumptions and that we should call elections. We changed the excuse: today it is no longer that we should call elections, because obviously, as it is logical and normal, they cannot call elections; today the excuse is that with extended assumptions it is seen very well. Two, three months ago, prolonged assumptions were a drama; today we have felt, with some unbelief, as someone thought that with extended assumptions the Government of Catalonia could function perfectly well. Listen, or white or black: what makes three_months– prolonged assumptions– was a drama..., today we can't come up with that better than we don't approve assumptions, because with extended assumptions we can go very well. Citizens and the Socialist Party, during these weeks, have presented hundreds of statements aimed, in an irresponsible way, at presumptively dismantling the CTTI, at reducing to a minimum the recurring parties destined for the IT services and the new technologies of the various departments. The committee approved a set of items from the Socialist Party intended for totxo, part of the Department of Education's information expenditure. They are still in time to see that they are aware of the moment we live in and the century in which we live, and they can still correct and gather the particular votes that we have asked from the groups that we support the Government. They're still in time to assume that teachers and students at home, exploring teleeducation..., leaving schools without a presupposition for informatics, to keep computers, to keep the programmer, to keep the information networks, it's highly irresponsible, even though it's just opposition. Are you sure that it is reasonable to remove 5_million euros from the Department of Justice's informational premise, as they have done? Or €6_million from the Territorial Department also in computer systems? Aren't you aware that the Administration needs information on how the air it breathes to continue working, to provide a public service to the citizenry? Doesn't it seem strategic to advance on teletreball on access to public services via telematics? And surely today we are all introducing to our speeches the evidence that we have very fragile business ecosystems, such as tourism, such as those linked to culture, to fire, to great events, and that we need to generate alternative models that are more resilient, linked to the new technologies. Great speeches that after, at the time of voting, do absolutely the opposite, if a few hours do not put in order. Last March 13th we approved the Opinion of the Law of Presumptions of 2020. The next day, as was also said, the state government decreed the state of alarm. Forty days ago the Government of Catalonia, that the country, that Catalonia could have some of us presupposed to deal in a much more efficient way with the needs that come from this crisis. Listen, asking for an opinion on the Bill of Presumptives Project at the State Guarantee Board is a recognised right for the State of Autonomy, that's right. They know that the composition of the Guarantee Board is plural, there are members of all the political colors, and they have told them unanimously, all of them, of the Law of Presuppositions opinion, that no of the legal foundations to which you call so as to denounce the law of the Law of Presuppositions had the slightest basis. You have not exercised a right; you have deliberately delayed for forty days the adoption of the necessary assumptions to fight this pandemic and continue today acting with the same political irresponsibility, and they come to say here..., and they tell us that you can make assumptions that can respond to this situation, making assumptions are _months and that in order to make effective assumptions you need to have adjusted economic forecasts. And today there is no body at international level, neither national nor state level that is able to make a forecast of the evolution of the economy that does not incorporate a fork of four or five points of fall on GDP. And what we can be absolutely sure of is that, today, doing and focusing the writing of new assumptions leaves us there where we are, in a scene of uncertainty. Therefore, and as we know that during the next weeks, for another band..., we hope that it is flexible in the constraints arising from the Presuppositional Stabilisation Act and that we need to face the future with much more capacity to be able to debt – and much – and we hope that the resources that the European Central Bank has put up from the table and that we hope that the European Commission will end up putting up from the table will reach the administrations that manage the crisis, we hope that these resources will not remain in Madrid and that they will arrive where they will arrive. And that the Government of the State is dealing with transfers, direct, new – not just advances in the two-year period – and more so when we have this whole picture defined, we will certainly have defined the conditions to be able to develop new assumptions. But that won't be until a few months ago in the best of the scenes and, therefore, not approving today's assumptions means giving up assumptions by 2020. And that means that we will have to get our hands on the tools three years ago, which, of course, are obsolete to deal with the current situation in the midst of the human crisis. And despite all this, today we will approve these assumptions, and it is an important day. And that's what's important, but it's also important for its format, for the way three different cross-cutting political formations end up supporting a project of assumptions. And this co-responsibility, this political transversality is now more essential than ever to face the future. On the solid basis of these assumptions, since the Government of Catalonia is building these broad political and social consensuss on the strategy of economic, environmental and social reconstruction. A strategy that will have to be shared and conditioned by the tools to be brought to us by the European institutions. Let us hope, gentlemen of the PSC and of the commons, that it is not conditioned to the low for the restrictions imposed for the centralism of the Spanish State. As of tomorrow, we will have to extend the expenditure relief from the assumptions that we are now adopting, because of the more poor, because of nine transfers from Europe, because of what the Spanish State has given us, because of the transfers that must also come to us in order to compensate for the fall in tax receipts. And it's going to have to be revived; it's obvious. In any case, it is the moment of the capacity of all political formations to meet all these important challenges for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.218.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, to finish this debate, Mrs Teresa Pallarès has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.219.0	Thank you, President. Late afternoon, vice president, councillor, deputies, deputies. We're actually living today a situation of extreme exceptionality in this room. It is evident in this session, marked by the complexity but also by the uncertainty that we live at these times throughout the country. I add myself to condolence shows and support for all those families who have lost family, friends or who are at these times still struggling with the disease. A lot of souls and a lot of strength. And, of course, an exciting thanks, on the part of our entire parliamentary group, to the health professionals, to the professionals of the bodies of emergency and security and to the workers of the essential services, which with their work are the first line of defense of this country. A real pride to be able to count on his dedication and professionalism. Thank you so much everyone. Members and Members, the situation – as has been said – is radically different from what we had on the day we brought these assumptions to the debate of totality in this Parliament. But the government has had to put the full effort to put up with a pandemic that has suddenly arrived, with assumptions – as we have said – extended, betraying the forces and resources of which we have been able, but acting responsibly, with sense of country, with institutional joy, although not everyone has acted the same way. We have seen how some of the Government of Spain has taken advantage of the crisis generated by this Covid-19 to reintegrate competitions, and the President of the Government of Spain has been accused of disloyalty to claim that Catalonia can take relevant measures to deal with this pandemic, when they have finished them too. Mirin, we're very clear about this. The management of the crisis must be in the hands of whom the country knows and who works alongside the people, and that is what the government of President Torra has done, with the president at the front of the first moment, and that is why today it is time to thank his pocket. It has been a determined and courageous action, as it was also seen, and it was evident with the need for hard to finish the perimeter confinement of the conca d'Odena, in one way or another..., with very difficult conditions and an advanced form with decisions that are taken in other places. I also take the opportunity to send the support to the whole area of the conca d'Odena, to the mayors, the administrations and all the people, especially to the hospitals, who have suffered this crisis so focused on a place in our country. We speak precisely of this, of being able to manage from proximity, from knowledge, to make it more efficient and effective. And now, if I may, I will speak to you precisely of this, of this action that our government has done, which has brought this action to an end with these extended assumptions. And from here, the importance that today, in this session, we can get to approve some new assumptions for starting from a new screenplay to bring forward many measures, which has now remained in evidence that they will be very necessary. A first block is for what it does to the emergency care phase, and here, obviously, we need to talk about Health, put a lot of value to the task developed with the Vergés advisor at the front and all the Health Health staff. We have already said many times that in the area of Health we already had structural needs or, as explained, an increase in the trend towards population growth and ageing, but that these assumptions already gave – despite what they say – an answer, with one of the highest assumptions in history, with 9,800_million euros, with a forecast to create eight_thousand new jobs, 1,400 of them for primary care. Even so, and having identified these needs and being very conscious of them, the healthcare professional of Catalonia has given an extraordinary response from the vocation of public service. We can never thank enough for this pocket. So thank you. We also have to thank the councillor for the management and assumption of the skills in the residences of our opinions and opinions and for the coordination of this whole task, which certainly has not been easy, because it is one of the focus that most attention has required in this pandemic. Interior. Obviously, so does the Inside part. Counselor Buch, with his entire team, has been given a mandate that emergency management, unfortunately, has been key. We started already with fires, the fire of the Ribera d'Ebre, a chemical emergence in Tarragona, the temporary Gloria and now this health crisis. These assumptions also guarantee an increase of 14_percent of their department to overcome, to go over over 1,500_million and attend to the needs that they have now also been able to detect, and above all to respond to the creation of nine seats of Squad and Bombers Mousses, as we have already announced. Thank you very much, Counselor. I, obviously, Councilwoman Budo. We have seen it every day in our homes, reporting on time – on time – about what was going on, honestly – when there were good figures, they are good; when there are not so many, they are not so much – with the hope of being able to move forward at this very complicated time. And, besides, at a time when he was also involved in the whole process of presuppositional processing, all that has been put to rest for this, let's say..., for the Council of State Guarantees. But to thank him too, to tell him that his assumption also makes a small increment, of a 7th and a half – that is to say, in order to place himself in the midst of the 610_millions, but that he has very important responsibilities. We had the PUOSC compromise, which is waiting for us all together, and more so now the local administration will probably still need some more. Therefore, this responsibility, counsel, is important. But also sectors that are very much affected by this pandemic, such as the sports sector, which is now patenting a lot with the closure of installations, the suspension of all competitions. I, apart from the National Plan and the reactivation of the sport that is intended to be done from the General Secretary of the Sport, also I know that actions have been proposed in Madrid, such as the reduction of VAT to this type of enterprise, from 21 to 10_per_cent. Let's hope someone's listening to us, too, and we can pull these proximity policies on the people. And the third bloc, he will advise, also the policies directed at women with domestic violence, that these many days arise because of the situation of being confined with their aggressors. Finally, it also has a part that will allow to give compliment to the normalized change of the Law of Contracts, which affects the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans and the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. I also take the opportunity to send a call to the communication media that they have accompanied..., and also recognize companies deprived of public interest, which have guaranteed plurality in the information, and that they will surely now also remain at the discovery, with need of help. So, a scenario that we all need to rethink a lot. The second block is attention, let's say, more direct to people. And I believe that here the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, with Councillor El Homrani..., we have seen that this pandemic has put to the discovery the peremptory need, which we have been complaining to the State for years now, of the issue of bringing the law of dependence to bear. Let's see if we've got 50 percent. The progressive government of Madrid that takes the 50_per_cent commitment to deal with this law, which many families will surely still be in a more vulnerable situation. And, in the same line, work for guaranteed and escorted income President Torra, who has already called for the creation of basic income. Let us hope that the other administrations are also on the coast of Catalonia. We are facing more than one thousand ERTOs – it has been said – more than 700,000 affected workers, with great challenges also with self-employed workers. And, unfortunately, we have had to assist in detailing active policies from Madrid, with more than 200_million euros to work from the SOC with active policies. Therefore, a lot of inconsistency and uncertainty in very complicated times for Catalonia. The confinement has left all our infants at home. This has also been a complicated challenge for families, but now more than ever it is up to us to guarantee equality and equity to solve this digital key, which has been detected to affect more than fifty thousand students. We need to ensure the sustainability of the entire education system, which can put at risk at this time some concerted centres, which have also served the country, and the whole formal and non-formal system, going through schools in Bressol, schools of music, even all education and education enterprises. Therefore, the importance of this area as well as an important and priority premise. In the field of Justice, the Councilwoman Capella must continue to guarantee the fundamental rights of the citizens, which we see violated also recently, and our working people must have the tools to develop with full guarantees, including also all those who are, obviously, in situations that may be more risky, such as prison staff. And to highlight the impulse to your electronic judiciary to make management more responsive, which, in some of the issues that have occurred during these days, we see that we have put all these informational issues with a major problem for the functioning of the country. For what he does to Councillor Bernat Sole – it is not –, it is the first time that I can address him with this charge, but he has also had an important setback to maintain and improve the network of external delegations, which have been severely affected by 155 and which have now had to prove its importance to ensure the safety of the people outside. And, finally, it is also important to increase the assumption for the history of cooperation, for official development assistance, in line to arrive at 0.7_per_cent year 23. In Culture, what we have to say is that culture has stayed in all our homes; the cultural sector has accompanied us. Councilwoman Maria Àngela Vilallonga put it to us the other day, explaining to us the work that has been done from all cultural areas; a sector that will suffer very much also this crisis and that now in a way, let's say, very open to us has been able to enter the houses and accompany us in this confinement. It will be necessary to reorient the lines of support and also give in this area what is needed, because it forms part of the cultural fabric, on a priority part of our country. Obviously, territorial and economic reconstruction..., I have to speak in the first place of Territories and Sustainability, cannot be in any other way. Councillor Calvet has a presumption responsible for 48_percent of the total investments of the Generalitat and the fourth departmental presumption in higher expenditure, responsible for the environmental policies. To face the climate emergency, I think that, in this, we all agree. And he's always talking about preparing, like in Europe, the Green New Deal to reach 25 percent of the Generality's climate policy, when it's already over 35. Therefore, it is a matter of disposition and above all of creating the job that is done. There is an important challenge that is mobility, we dedicate a 50_percent of the budget, a part of decarbonization, but there is also an important part of infrastructure, maintenance and management. And now more than ever we will need housing policies for those families that have remained in a very fragile situation facing the pandemic. A special acknowledgment to the people of the rural world and the sea, who have not endured these days either. It is essential that the network in this sector, ensuring that people are able to earn a decent living. We encourage the consumption of fresh and proximity products, and our commitment and also the government's commitment to improve communications and telecommunications to be connected from anywhere in the country. Thanks also to Councilwoman Jordan for working on the side of the primary sector. Company and Knowledge. Consellera Chacón, a crisis that undoubtedly affects our productive economy in Catalonia, a country that is entrepreneurs. The department has a presupposition of 1,600_million euros, but it has to face important challenges. Basic pillars of our economy have been touched: tourism; trade has been touched, there will be an encouragement in trade issues; the need for digitisation of industry 4.0, which had already been working and was, fortunately, well advanced. And it must be appreciated the task of action in the internationalization themes that made contact possible to provide enterprises with sanitary materials. Moreover, this consultancy must pass itself or yes through the energy transition and the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge, key role of research, as demonstrated, with this 60_percent of universities, and, obviously, we must do what we can to be on the side of these sectors. To the councilman Puignero, teletreball is now a reality. This isn't Matrix anymore, it's not inventive, it's not parallel. Today we all have the counselor at home making it possible to digitize all the worlds – all the worlds. I say this as a touch of attention for all those who put forward assumptions that are part of the departments in the field of digitization. These departments today have been able to do a great deal of their work from home in front of this pocket, which was already done from the department. But the department has not only adapted to this reality. Thanks to this, too, many autonomies, schools, institutes, universities, families... It is very important to bring the public network to the whole country, a bet that is key to the fairness of our territory. And to continue with this project and to guarantee new digital decrees, despite the decree law of the central government to establish the new digital mode of the law bites or the 155 digital, tell them as usual. Vice President, thank you very much. Thank you, because we're here because your department did the work, did the work when it played. That's what we've been doing, and we're still there; it's important. It is important to be grateful that these assumptions, despite the criticisms that we are getting, and that some agree and others that are not, were necessary. Because we need to update the numbers, we already know that we will be working here to develop the activities, and this pandemic has made our needs very clear and, therefore, we can reorient, with our hands extended to everyone, where they should go. One more time, thanks for the work you've done so far, but above all, the one that will also touch us from then on. Therefore, it is very important to bear in mind that, between this space and this crisis, we also need to raise again the task that has taken place from the joints. Our mayors, mayors, our governors, governors, the local administration, as always at the expense of the people. It is that they are at the side of the people, it is the first line of fire, attend to the veins and the veins, the one that is sick, the one that needs to eat; they know names, surnames, family, of everything that is going on. As a result, now, more than ever, the assemblies need the cooperation of the administrations. I have no doubt – I have no doubt – that we will do so from the Generality. I think it's a compromise that's gonna have to be taken from all the departments because it's our first... our first line of fire is the joints and so we have to be at their side right now. And I hope that the State will also respond, because we can hold the liquidity enough to deal with it. Finally, with measures such as once we can make some changes in the LRSAL, which is shrinking so much, so much the management of the joints, with some romans that..., if all the romans who have put themselves in the mood are counting, there are more than 20,000_million to such effect, which means that we could have a share of these unsolved issues, surely, but we could have an advance, and we cannot have those resources. So in this sense too we have a lot of work to do. But, look, also on behalf of my parliamentary group I would also like to address, from this Faristol, to the Spanish Government, because now it is time to say which compromises they intend to settle with Catalonia, with whom they still have so many accounts pending. We have cooperated during this month and half with many proposals. President Torra every day makes proposals to Madrid, but are they willing to cooperate with us? Has the time come perhaps to talk about the financing model, which we always say is unfair and discriminatory, or has the time not yet reached them? Is it time to talk about the historical debts of the State with Catalonia? Of the third additional provision of the Statute? From the financing of Mossos? Or dependence? Has the time arrived or has the time not arrived? Is it time to talk about the 430_million VAT that Minister Montero announced she would not return despite being from Catalans and Catalans? Is it time? Is it time to talk about flexibility? Is it time? I think the time has come, there are no more excuses. We administrations have an inexcusable duty to bear a significant share of the cost of this crisis, which we cannot make pay to citizens' banks, less to which they are vulnerable, nor to companies. It is as easy as returning to the keynesia pact of the great crisis of the thirties. Economists know about it, they know about it. The Government of the Generality, as I said, I am convinced that it has the full will to assume this responsibility, but also, from the Government of the State, we need to know what distribution it will make of these European foundations that yesterday was negotiating with the Council of Europe. What will this flexibility of the deficit be? What liquidity proposals will be made for the government and will also be made for the joint venture. Without solving all this, our margin of manoeuvre in Catalonia, as you know, our mark, tax entry, tax entry is very small compared to what went to the central government. So we have little room for manoeuvre. We are waiting for an answer because I think the country expects it, the country deserves it, but above all, the people, the citizens of Catalonia and the citizens of Catalonia deserve it too, and there must be all the groups, all the parliamentary groups. I would just like to end by thanking the work done by the Government, also from the advisers, who have helped us in this process and, of course, to all my colleagues, Members, Members, who today will be voting telematically in this room, a parliament of the 21st century, and also to the advisers of the group who have helped us in this process. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.220.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then again, as the vice president and economic advisor has asked for the word, I give the word to him so that he can intervene before the plenary. When you say so, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.221.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen... many thanks to the parliamentary services for making today's session possible. The exceptionality of the moment, of the moment when we approve these assumptions, the political singularity in which this debate took place, but above all, the situation of emergence at the human level, at the global level, led me to ask for the word. It's been three years since this chamber approved some assumptions. Let's say the most important law of the year; the law that determines the ability of an entire government to act; the law that requires, in a plural and diverse country like ours, the ability to reach agreements. The will of all political actors, to think beyond the private and legitimate electoral interests of each and prioritise the need to move the country forward. And I'm talking about exceptionality, too, as I said before, because of the health emergency we're living in. It is obvious that when we presented the presupposition in this chamber to the Parliament of Catalonia, at the end of its generation, the Covid-19 was a malaise view from the Lunyania that affected above all the Xina. And today, just two and a half months later, the whole world – all over the world – is struggling to stop this pandemic that has already taken more than 190,000 lives from the planet and more than nine thousand to Catalonia. That day, at the end of the generation, when we presented the assumption, I did not appreciate the satisfaction, because, as I said, after years of imposed austerity and extended assumptions, I was convinced and I am convinced that we are opening a new stage with a very good assumption that we can update public services, advance the welfare state and strengthen the knowledge economy. I was and am convinced that it is the opportunity to start a new stage and with a clear horizon in the construction of Catalonia of the future. It is true that the Covid-19 has changed everything; it has changed our lives, it has changed the most everyday elements of our existence, and it has obviously also changed the repres of public administrations, the repres of politics, the repres of those we have..., the ones we also work in this Parliament, and it has created new difficulties in the objective of making a more cohesive and more prosperous country. But this reality doesn't make us lower our arms. We do not conform, we do not resign, because we have neither come to lower our arms nor to resign. In the same way that the health workers who are doing the work, the people who are working at the residences, those who work the essential services have not lowered their arms after two months, nor do we lower them. And so if we had the opportunity to start a new phase, now we have the obligation to do so, because it's obvious that before a crisis that doesn't even have the origin..., and we have the accumulated lessons of the previous crisis, apart from not having the same origin, we can't get out with the same receipts, we can't get out more unequally, they can't pay for the ones that paid for the 2008 crisis, so the crisis caused by the coronavirus. And we can't waste more time to start building a better future for our children and our daughters. It is necessary to build among all, with the maximum consent, an alternative because it is obvious that there have been many things that at the economic level have not worked. There has been an increase in the inequalities on the planet, a continuing economic model that contaminates mass and still generates different masses. We are forced to reinvent ourselves and, if anyone had any doubts, so a pandemic has made it very clear to us before our eyes. The assumption we're adopting today is that this road is the starting point for building a country that's fairer, closer and freer. The crisis that we are experiencing begins, I am convinced, a new era, a new historical stage, where the lives of people and the quality of life must be the one to guide us in all and every decision we make. It has to be, but we don't guarantee it. We'll have to make good decisions, brave decisions and risky decisions. We must place quality of life at the centre of political action. The economic indicators that we've used long after decades do not serve to identify the challenges that we have at a time like the present. They are important, they have to be taken into account, but they do not serve at a time of shock, both in the offer and the demand, of the economy. If one thing has shown us the Covid-19 is that the only thing that can't be recovered is life, that can't be rebuilt is life. And, therefore, we need to change the paradigm and put the economy of life at the centre, also in terms of economic policy. And it's obvious, as I said, that the presupposition of 2020 wasn't thought, when we started working six months ago, to face the Covid-19 that we didn't even know was coming. But it is also obvious that it gives us many more tools than a presupposition extended three years ago. A presupposition is like a box of tools. And it's obvious that the 2020 assumption that we're approving today is bigger and has more tools than a 2017 assumption extended. That, in view of the new situation, these tools will have to reorient them, many of them will have to be used differently. That's right. But it's always better a presupposition of 2020 than not to approve it. In all decisions, we have to make clear which is the alternative. The alternative to the non-approval of the presupposition is to continue with a presupposition of 2017 and go running with us pieces. And that's no alternative, because it doesn't allow us to cope with the needs we have today. We have more resources and more tools to deal with in an emergency situation that will require much more. You know that. But we have more than that if we don't approve of this assumption today. A presupposition that already clearly prioritized the pillars of the welfare state, and in the current situation will have to be reinforced much more. For this reason, they are a very good starting point, with the relevant adjustments, with the necessary reorientations, which will help us to provide a much more appropriate response to the health and care system emergencies, but also to all the economic and social consequences of the outage of the pandemic system. It is a presupposition that has a marked expansion character and allows this presupposition to be the first stone of the reconstruction, because we also have to work on this key: this country has to decide how it wants to rebuild. And that he decides; that he decides this country with all the resources and with all the tools. And it has to be the first stone of this economic and social rescue plan, which has to place us in a better position of exit to face the socio-economic difficulties that we are already patenting and that, probably, if we don't, will be much bigger. Difficulties in many areas and many different. Because the situation we're looking at... before uniform measures, after confinement, after the confinement at the home of many families, there's been a lot of different things going on. And it's obvious that the coronavirus impacts, and its consequences impact differently depending on family renderings, depending on the social class, and depending on the territory, and depending on the genera as well. For this reason, I have commissioned – and, therefore, today, the public – a report on the economic impact of the epidemic of the coronavirus. Because if anyone has met in their own flesh, in their own skin, the increase in the inequalities of the last crisis, they are undoubtedly the women. It is not acceptable that always, always, inequalities have a feminine face. We want to move forward and this happens, obviously, to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic, and a new stage in which we repent and speak much more about welfare, equity, equality of opportunity. We are also talking about innovation, research and knowledge, which must be the pillars to finance this welfare state. We need a smart economy to generate equal opportunities. They're absolutely inseparable. There is no tria between welfare state and economic dynamism. It's one thing for the other, it's a mutual growth between these two concepts. We need to talk, therefore, about life and freedom. This stage of reconstruction..., this morning the ugly refers to the three phases that, from the economic point of view, we are facing as the government. First, to provide resources for the health and care system. Secondly, to guarantee liquidity – butxaca money – to workers, families and businesses while the economy of confinement lasts. And that's why I'm referring to the decrees we passed this morning, the ones we're approving the government, and the ones we're obviously going to have to approve. And many new initiatives that may not pass as decreed by law for this Parliament but which is being completed by the Government. And the third phase, the reconstruction phase. A reconstruction that, from my point of view, must have three axes from the economic point of view. First place, economy of life. And that means a clear bet for the welfare state. Strengthen the public health system, the social service system, and we will probably have to rethink many things. And rethinking will also mean putting more resources and prioritizing. In the field of the economy of life, a clear bet is also essential for one of the actions that our country has and that places us in a pointer field at the level of research, which is research in the biotechnological field, in the sciences of life. Our search model bases its strength not on a defense system like the United States or Israel, but on a search system embedded in the health field. And, therefore, the search for life, the economy of life, is also this. As well, it is a strategic policy of clear food, of food sovereignty at the catal level, fundamental to take care of our primary sector, which at these times is working, more than ever, with many difficulties, but which is ensuring that in a crisis that has affected mobility, has affected work places, is affecting the service sector..., we guarantee food supply. According to this, digitization and industry 4.0. The economic sectors, the companies, the projects that are not digitalizin do not survive. And we cannot just leave the configuration of the economy of the future in the hands of the new technological oligopolises. We need this distributed, cooperative economy, based on small and medium-sized enterprises, in start-ups, which need the talent of this country, too, to be targeted in the digital sphere. And that's why we place a bet on this optical fiber premise, and that's why we've put up jobs, for security, but we keep the bet on optical fiber, we've declared them works of emergency, to ensure access to internet connection to the territory. Digitization and Industry 4.0, the clear bet of the future, decentralisation of production, relocation of production that had moved to other places in the world with the argument of lower labor costs. This is all changing and will obviously also happen in the European field for strategic reserves in the field of the pharmaceutical and chemical industry. The third is, ecological transition. Necessary. These days we've seen how nature has recovered space. As we have added, behind the silence of our streets, without cars and without people on the street, it felt like ocells again, and we see how they recovered the space that we have close to them. It is essential, therefore, also to understand that it is necessary to reverse the climate change and, therefore, a clear ecological transition. And still loved by a clear compromise with rights and freedoms. Because decisions will also be taken in the very weeks that affect individual rights and freedoms. And we need to hear the decisions that they make, that many of us will not be able to take with the Government of Catalonia because they will be taken by the Spanish Government or taken by other international institutions, such as an opportunity for rights and freedoms. Technology in the service of salvation, of rights and of freedom. And this is a possibility that we have in our hands and I am convinced that we will do so, because this is our commitment to salvation, to rights and freedom. From here, it is very important to work from great consensus, and we need to regain the will and ability to work from great consensus. And I would like to thank the parliamentary groups which, even though some of them today did not vote on the premise, the word 'consensus' and the words 'agreement' and 'proposals' have come out all day in the debate. And that's a good thing. And the proposal to make a great deal of agreement at national level for reconstruction. We, with the government, take over. He already told the president this morning. We will have to work among all because it is obvious that in time to decide we will have to set priorities, and to set priorities means that in some things it will be possible to do more and in other things it will be possible to do little. And if this is done, this decision to set priorities is done with consensus, it will be better, it will be a better decision. The premise, therefore, that today we approve not with the virtue of consensus, precisely, with the ability to have agreed positions extended ideologically, as those of the parliamentary groups that today will support it: Together for Catalonia, Catalonia in Comú Pode, Esquerra Republicana. There has been an important cessation effort, an important effort to place the common good ahead of the game. And I want to thank everyone. I would like to thank Junts for Catalonia, so also the flexibility it has had to accept proposals. I also want to thank the efforts of the Republican Left and I want to thank Catalonia in Comú that, not being part of the groups that support the Government, it has acted responsibly and assuming that this assumption was necessary in spite of legitimately discriminating from the general political orientation of the Government. We have built an agreement through identifying country priorities in this premise, and this strategy must be the same to get us out of the situation generated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, I will not deceive them, and in the same way that I thank these three groups, so, these assumptions that we will see approved now, I would have liked to have added more groups. I would have liked especially those groups that are self-located in the area of progress, such as the Party of Socialists of Catalonia or the Candidature of Popular Unity, so there have been some additions. I think he's kept a still position, but it doesn't have to be the behavior of the future. And we all have to work together, the first government, so it's not like that. But I have to say, frankly, that you do not understand that you oppose a premise that devotes three_of_every_four euros to strengthening the pillars of the welfare state, and much less in the current context of humanity's emergence. I think... I was hoping, therefore, that these two groups might have a more responsible position, because in the end, with the contrary vote, if successful, they would be denying the Generality a lot of resources that would help us and much to fight the pandemic and the socio-economic crisis that was going on. Therefore, it is necessary for the future to reconsider this conservative, stationary attitude, and, therefore, to be more responsive and constructive. And especially I ask the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, because in the stage of reconstruction, we will have to look for resources everywhere, they have a very important role as the main party in the Government of the State. And, therefore, the petitions that the Spanish Government yesterday defended in the European Council, which is a great foundation for reconstruction and which is financed through transfers to the state, count on our support. Count it. Surely, with the nuances and the better we could do, but essentially count on our support. And, therefore, the same one that Spain asks of Europe, which is a great foundation for reconstruction and which is channeling resources into transfers and not into debt, calls Catalonia to the Spanish State. The major resources that we need to deal with in the health field, but also in the area of reconstruction, must come from transfers from the State which, on its return, will also come from transfers in the European sphere. It would not have any meaning to force Catalonia, the Government of Catalonia, and other governments of autonomous communities to pay interest for loans to deal with a health emergency. The State is the one that recapitulates, it is the one that has the dialogue at European level and it is the one that marks the policy of debt. He's the one who authorizes all the debt. And, in fact, it is also the one who authorizes some of the decisions that we have taken in the economic sphere that are waiting to be implemented by the decision of the State. Therefore, this collaboration is essential. We know that it is very complicated, that the State also has the need for the financing of the employment system, SEPE, with all the increase in the costs involved by ERTOS and the fall in recaptancy. You know that. But what is being asked of Europe..., we are with the Government of the State asking for this in Europe, and we are asking that it be applied also at the level of the Spanish State. That's why the deficit target has already been adapted. The 0.2_per_cent deficit we were told before the coronavirus is still not implemented. It's imperative. But above all it is necessary to activate these transfers, the transfers from Europe to the Spanish State and from the Spanish State to the administrations that manage hospitals and residences, and which will also be closed in the recovery, in Catalonia, the Generality of Catalonia. It will take priority, and it will have to be done through consensus. And I am also convinced, as I am convinced of this, that we all have an obligation to contribute to starting this new stage to overcome the current situation. I am convinced that we will agree, as we have done today a few groups of this chamber with the premise, in relation to consensus as wide as the need for recovery. And I am convinced that the majority of citizens fully agree that recovery will not be possible at the expense of pending problems, because, despite the fact that there will still be problems on the table. And, therefore, it will also be necessary to give an answer to the majority consensus in Catalonia that detention and exile are unfair and that the only way to resolve the political conflict between the Spanish State and Catalonia is by voting. So let's start a new stage in which we can also call upon a certain generational compromise, because a good part of what we have today is to make decisions that are either born or well-bred or well-bred and fully educated from..., therefore, from the restoration of a democratic state, despite all the shortcomings in democratic terms that we still see today. We are a generation that thanks to the efforts of our opinions and our lives, thanks to the efforts of our parents and our seas, we have only been told that we have to study to ensure a good life, but we have seen that we have been faced with two difficult crises: that of 2008, which limited our progress in the labour market and took many of our companies to the top and precariousness, and a new crisis that puts us, therefore, ahead of a real landscape with many challenges ahead of us. I've completely altered everything, so I need to break the scheme. We can build this alternative among all, based on a country of free citizens and compromises with the progress of the collection. An alternative based on an unsurprising citizenry was an empowered and compromised citizenry with its community, as is the people of Catalonia. We have the obligation to fight today to build this alternative, which I am convinced we will do, the good consensus that we continue to build will be the best future, the best political heritage, the best collective heritage that we can leave to our children and our daughters. Thank you very much. Many thanks to the Members and Members that will facilitate the approval of the budget. Good afternoon. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.222.0	Taking into account the Vice-President's time, and if parliamentary groups want to, we will open a three-minute turn to parliamentary groups and a half to the subgroup. [[Pause.]] So on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr. Cano, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.223.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, since Mr. Salvado has questioned me, he always uses to give an answer, even if the counselor is at a hearing, to make three points with the utmost respect. The first is that it is obvious that budgets do not work when you have automatically passed to the two usual mantras, the de« Espanya ens robi i el de« som collonuts. I want to tell you that at the moment neither of these two mantras serves the situation in which we are. Then, when I was talking about us having cut CTTI and state structures, I remember that you were one of the architects of state structures. In the end you said everything was prepared, but it wasn't, everything was spent, which is what we are now claiming. When we ask you not to waste on the CTTI, tell him that what you spent on the CTTI did not end up in schools or in students, nor ended the digital divide, it ended with my personal data and that of many Catalans on the network, on the internet, in the famous illegality of 9-N, there it ended, from there we are cutting. And then, on the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, tell him who gives us the reason, tells us that the Covid-19 has affected the budgets, and therefore these are not useful for that. And if we talk about the accompaniment law's opinion, it already recognizes directly that there are unconstitutional articles. Mr Aragonès, I believe that from this debate we have come to the conclusion, and we all agree, that these budgets do not serve to fight the Covid-19. I understand that you have a bad experience, because in the end it has been three years that it has taken you to make some budgets, but if you start taking advantage of the political capital offered by the main group of Parliament, thirty-six Members, 1,100,000 Catalans behind you, you can make that effort and draw up budgets that are really useful. It's the same, right now I'm telling you we have to move from the muse to the theater. You have made me a good theoretical disquisition, but we must move on to action. We can't lose a minute. When you talk to me about the economy of life, in short, I have absolutely nothing concrete. For my life economy is to have good budgets to fight the pandemic, and make it work. That's life-saving for me. Therefore, what I really appreciate is that you have accepted our hand extended to create this autonomous forum for the construction of Catalonia, and to put us to work from the minute one to have some budgets of 2021 that are really useful to fight the pandemic, to get to fight this situation that is affecting us to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.224.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the turn... I understand that they are the same deputies who had intervened in the debate, so then it's Congresswoman Alicia Romero, of the PSC and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.225.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, very quick. I appreciate that you made this proposal for a report to see what the impact of the coronavirus on women is, right? I hope you already know that before the coronavirus we women already suffer inequalities, and many, right? Unequal... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, don't be mad, she's always mad when I say things to her. Vice President, don't get so upset, man. Listen to me, the inequality looks like a woman, and we know that, and it was just March 8th, and the Catalan Institute of Donations drew up a report in which there came out very much inequality, in concrete terms, that was what this year they wanted to reflect. Well, I hope this isn't the headline that comes out of today's day, because women live and suffer inequalities, many, from before the coronavirus, and, unfortunately, will also be after the coronavirus. Look, Vice President, you came out here to say what we have to do after we approve the premise, because it is clear that this assumption that we approve today is sterile and will not serve for anything. Tomorrow we'll have to start working on your modification. You said a few things: industry, research, digitization, ecological transition, food, but do you know what's going on? , that of these fears in the presupposition of 2020 you did not make a clear bet, is that you did not foresee..., not the coronavirus, obviously, but that you did not plan to lay a solid foundation to emerge from this crisis stronger from the social and economic point of view. Listen, the agricultural budget is the smallest as a percent of the last two years, a 1.3 of the budget. In a zero_euro eco-friendly transition, the research did not increase the assumption in relation to 2010. No, Vice President. In digitalization we made a plan that we presented, and also about data and artificial intelligence, but resources, what is said resources are not there. So, with these credentials that you have, we can't trust him too much. That's why we're asking him – and you said it, and we're taking the word, so good that's it – to summon everyone, to summon all parliamentary groups and among all of us to try to put our grit down to improve this situation. We think it's the only way we can get out. I didn't like him telling us that we're conservatives and not responsible enough. We are on the right not to vote on assumptions that we do not like, do not satisfy and do not respond to today's problems, yesterday's, or tomorrow's, and therefore this is our position. He told us that the State..., in fact, and so on. Well, I'm just saying one thing to you: you didn't call us in the whole parliamentary process. I'd also like to make it clear, he didn't call us for anything, either before the exams or after the exams, and so today we make the decision that we seem to be right. Listen, you did have meetings with the state to negotiate a 2019 budget that voted against, and voted against VAT, voted against the incorporation of the Mossos debt into the budget, voted against more than 2,200_million euros for the investment in Catalonia, voted against all this. I hope that I will not do it again, and when resources arrive in Catalonia and are incorporated into the assumptions of the State or in decrees you vote for it, because there is some group that is part of the government that does not have this positive and constructive attitude, which is what we all need to get out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.226.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, and has the word the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.227.0	Yes, thank you, Vice President. As I said before, Catalonia and its popular classes need three things, basically: they need the assumptions with this tax reform, they need an urgent plan of action immediately and they need an agreement for life. And the three are necessary to get us out of here and to live with dignity. The three must row in the same direction, they must have the same objective, as I said before, that it was to convert our fragility into axes of sovereignty to the service of life. And the three of them also have one thing in common, and it's that they need alliances, and I'm telling them that, to this government, we don't see this much of an attitude that's necessary for the pursuit of alliances. Sometimes it seems more likely to break bridges than seek alliances. We see a sector of independence that has taken over as insulting us, insulting us mainly in social networks, and, moreover, this is amplified because political leaders – very important, certainly – are dedicated to amplifying these insults. I've been wondering for the past week whether any part of the government really wanted these assumptions to be brought forward and that we would vote for abstention. I have thought about it, but it turns out that no matter what the intent of these behaviors we have seen these past weeks – they are always there, but with special virulence these weeks – we are coughing up, we are clear that this is not from us or from you, this is from the country, and, by responsibility and by our commitment to the popular classes of this country, we are abstaining from it today. And to finish, we don't think it's time to put pieces, as I said before, so we hope no one gets the storm when the pandemic goes on to want to go back to the same point. The model does not serve, and if anyone had any doubts, these weeks, with this pandemic, then we have the observation. We have to walk towards a post-growth and post-capitalist model. Economic recovery cannot be done at the expense of either the planet or the workers' and workers' scales. So we think, as ecofeminism says, who are people's needs? What's the point of producing them? And what are the socially indispensable jobs? And here we'll find the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.228.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, for a minute and a half, it's the return of Congresswoman Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.229.0	Well, vice-president, Republican Esquerra tells us about immobilists, partisans, irresponsibles, conservatives not to approve assumptions that are for 10,500_million euros to debt, that if we compare them with the 1,300_million euros that are for social services, sanitation and education, they clearly explain to us who are the priorities of this Government. Therefore, if you want to tell us « immobilists, partisans, irresponsibles and conservatives and now extend your hand to talk about a platter of rock, maybe we start with little. I already read the other day a news that you said with the PSC and the CUP that it is impossible to talk about it. I don't mean to say that perhaps what they want in the accounts of a platoon of rock is a pact that allows these assumptions to lapse, are obsolete, and that, moreover, they were conceived for partisan interests at three institutional levels: the State, the Assembly of Barcelona and the Government of the Generality? Tell us that now is the time to put people's interests in front of the game. They have repeated it as a mantra during these days, you, the Presiding Counselor... don't they mean that it may be you who are putting your party interests ahead of the people's interests?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.230.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Santi Rodríguez, of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.231.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, I must insist again that the mantra that the premise, the approval of the premise is essential in order to be able to dispose of these 3,000_million euros more than the year 2017 is not true, and basically because we have already reminded you, we have already told you, in the year 2019 with extended assumptions spent 3,600 more than in 2017; that is, 600_million more than they are now planting. So, possibly it is, another thing is that it's not operating or that you think it's not operating. I certainly didn't say in my intervention, and I didn't really hear it – I guess when we talk about measures maybe we'll talk about it more – but they don't expect the finance model to facilitate the resources that are provided for in this assumption, because they were provided for in an economic growth scene and in a certain tax recall scene, and no one escapes that this will change and much during these days, during these months and I'm sure that in the most immediate future. Now, forgive me, that you want to keep these assumptions? We understand, we understand perfectly. Go on, it's cost them a year and I'll agree between you to put forward a presupposition proposal, I'd just miss it now, wouldn't I? It is very legitimate that you want to keep these assumptions and subtly vote, as legitimate as it is to keep our vote against these assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.232.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then has the word the deputy Lluís Salvadó, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.233.0	Thank you. Well, in any case before I say anything about which the vice president has transferred to us, I can't stand to do anything about it, to return to Mr. Cano's kind words. I already know that the costs of getting out of their comfort space, which is the subject of the process, and when they come out of the process they find a hair removed and they always tend to return to their space, and where you listen to the complaint, the legitimate defense of the interests of Catalonia you see a "Spanisha us steals, and you see CTTI, instead of seeing modernity, seeing digital policies, seeing progress, seeing that the ticks can study from home, you see U d'Octubre. And when you see the ATC, instead of fighting the fraud – maybe you don't like us fighting the fraud – you see the process; but what seems a little out of measure to you is to say that the Law of Presuppositions' opinion gives you the reason. Five times they say: "There is no legal toilet motion. This, in ordinary terms, means that there is no support for its plantings. Vice-President, in any case, some thoughts. We have the need to do a lot of things and face a lot of things at the same time, to take on the enormous extraordinary expenses that are due, from all the current situation. Secondly, facing the economic and social reconstruction of our country. Thirdly, facing the construction of the health and social protection network to make it much stronger and much more resilient for the future. And in fourth place, focus all this, focus the future of our country with those strategic objectives, which it has perfectly defined, which is the climate emergency, which is the digital transition. He also pointed out, in a very accurate way, three reptes. Let me put the accent on a few. Food sovereignty, in these moments more important than ever; the relocation of certainly productions that we will have to rethink and that we will have to face with an opportunity for certain territories of the country; biotechnology; research... In any case, we will have to build a country that is much more just by revaluing public services and hearing human security as well as protecting citizens before the threats of socioeconomic character, guaranteeing economic, health, educational, environmental or housing security, in order to contribute to equity, equal opportunities and social cohesion. It is the moment, as he has said, of shared prosperity, of the economy of life. This is the time to bet on an economic system capable of generating wealth, which benefits society's joint venture and not just a few, on an economic model that emerges from the Public Administration, from a strong leadership of the Public Administration, and therefore we pose ourselves at its side. Continue to lead, Vice President, as you have done in the process and the pact of these assumptions, and lead at these times as well and make possible agreements still wider, political and social agreements still wider to face all these challenges of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.234.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally it is the return of Deputy Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group Together for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.235.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, Members and Members... Three ideas: the first one I think is shared by all those who have spoken here today, which is that these assumptions... – perhaps I had never passed here to the history of the Parliament of Catalonia –, that the same day that we approve of assumptions is evidence that they are part of the past, because they do not answer, they are not conceived and not, in this sense, they are designed to respond to a crisis so difficult that it affects the lives of people like the health, social and economic crisis that we suffer. We have assumptions today, we have assumptions of the year 2020, and we have to thank everyone who makes it possible. In this sense, starting with President Torra, for his sense of country with which he placed the citizenry of Catalonia by any personal and partisan interest, which allowed us to have these assumptions today; Vice President Aragonès and the members of the Government who have thus made it possible, and together the three parliamentary groups that facilitate this approval. But, also, it's obvious that we have reptes – it seems to me that time is not running, Mr. President, at least I..., time is not running, okay? It's the second idea. No, I'll be brief, I won't use it all the time, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.236.0	I can already go looking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.237.0	I won't use it all the time. [[remorse of the voice]] But I would like to say the first idea, that it is obvious that these assumptions do not respond to the current need that we share and that we suffer as a country and as a society. The second idea, which is not the time for adjustments, is the time for compliments, and it is the time for compliments from the Spanish State. It is time to say what is the deficit that the Government of Catalonia can apply to deal with this crisis situation of the coronavirus, it is time to complete the payment of historical debts to the Government of Catalonia, it is time to complete the payment of VAT. And here are some parties that also have some responsibilities because that's what happens, not just from the Government of the Government of Catalonia, but above all from the political will of the parties that are there in front of the State, it's from the Socialist Party and the commons. Because this crisis, just as it paid for it..., the State has paid for the banking crisis, this crisis does not pay for it either for businesses or workers, because it cannot be more demanding with people, with businesses and workers, and less demanding with the Spanish State with its shortcomings. To defend people also means at these times to defend the interests of Catalonia; it means to defend, in this sense, that the fiscal deficit is diminished, that the historical debts are paid and that it is also planted dearly defending the Catalan economy. Because they don't touch any more adjustments, they touch compliments, and it's up to defend the city, because it's the first emergence we'll have to respond to after the health emergency of the coronavirus, because it's obvious that after we talk about the Catalonia of the 21st century, we'll build between all the country of the weekend. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] This crisis is advancing us and accelerating many crises, which are posing..., and many crises that independence had already announced at the time, and now it's obvious. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from Junts to Catalunya also calls for the responsibility we share in order to fight...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.238.0	Thank you, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.239.0	... to an unprecedented situation that I am convinced that among all and all of us there are ways to unscrew. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.240.0	Once the debate is over, the record that the vote will be made later, at the end of the debate of the next item on the agenda, presumably not before the evening nine. [[Draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures to create tax on installations affecting the environment]] [[200-00012/12]] The aim of the agenda is to debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures and the creation of tax on installations affecting the environment. The debate will start with a round of major to minor parliamentary sub-groups and groups, ending with the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, in a single round of fifteen minutes per group and seven minutes and a half per sub-group. So, as you know, the vote on this opinion will end the vote on the opinion on the draft law for 2020. In the first place, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.241.0	Thank you, President; Vice President – I'm sorry. Counselor, deputies, deputies, first of all I would like to express my condolences to the families, friends of people who have died because of the Covid-19 pandemic. I would also like to wish for a speedy recovery and all our support for those affected, especially those who are in ICUs and their families. I would also like to express our thanks for the tireless work of all those who are on the front line, and to all those who, with their daily efforts, take care of the essential tasks. Also a recognition to all Catalans and all Catalans who are acting responsibly and who contribute to staying at home that this situation is vague, little by little, solving. If we don't do the numbers wrong, now seventy-one days ago we wanted to defend the issue here itself to the full set of assumptions and to this accompanying law, but the feeling is that it's an eternity. That day I told him that this bill of law could not be taken forward, because it is not complete the conditions according to which it had been designed, it was expired. The basic macroeconomic square on which it rests is simply unbreakable. Just knowing that the growth forecast on which this law rests is 1.9_per_cent, is enough to understand that the objectives provided for in it will not be satisfied. This bill was due before October 10th of last year. If you were to comply with your obligation right now, we wouldn't be talking about this. It also made them want to complete 2018 in accordance with the assumptions of 2019, which, I remember, were not even able to agree within the same government. And if they have submitted them now it has been for the promise of Mr. Torra to call elections after his approval, summoning that now, seems to be, will not produce even if the assumptions are made. If they want to present an image of good managers, they have not been or are, or probably will be. They had so far taken advantage of the winds of the international economic growth, and now that they have not been fooled. I must remind you that more than five thousand companies have left and have not yet returned, and you have done absolutely nothing to facilitate their return; you have only done as if you were working while you were stalling between yourselves. It's what we have, we know, but we don't resign. We are already used to it, we come from the real world, and there we find ourselves with people like you, not all organizations, but we know how to manage it: with more leadership, with example, looking for synergies and complicity, looking for what unites us and not what separates us; accepting criticisms, assuming mistakes and feeling humble. You make Goethe's sentence: "The only man who doesn't make a mistake is the one who never does anything. This assumption that they want to approve was designed in a radically different context from the current one, and therefore, to approve this assumption and then to go and modify it as decreed by law, we believe that it has no meaning. In a way, the true sense of the government's economic policy is attached to the citizenry, since the real one, which will actually apply, will not be the one to be approved now, but the one that will develop into future and unknown decrees. I've explained a lot of times, the main danger today – the health situation in the band – is uncertainty. People don't know what's going to happen, and approving these assumptions won't bring a thousand milligrams of certainty to the government's economic model; on the contrary, it will increase it. And that means that the investments won't come, that it will increase the weather, that they are closing factories and trades; a disaster. The context – it has been demonstrated – has changed. From the 1,9_percent growth of GDP on which this bill is built, we have gone to forecasts ranging from minus 8 to minus 10_percent of the International Monetary Fund, or from the Bank of Spain to minus 13_per_cent. It is also true that BBVA allows a light lock, and even though it also foresees a descent of the minus 8_per_cent, it thinks that there can be a low-end recovery. The company would have immediately convened a crisis office, an emergency commission to develop a survival plan so that the different departments would develop without a reassignment of the presuppositional parties and set priorities, objectives and means to achieve them. Gathering the responsible to have an idea, at least approximate, of what is the economic situation, which are the forecasts, which are the causes, in order to be able to take the most appropriate economic policy decisions. What have you done? The economic recession is already an obvious fact, the doubt is whether it will be low, in u, in it, double low, or now, as the same Bank of Spain recognizes, in the form of Nike logo, is to say, strong fall and slow recovery. The magnitude, it seems, also agrees that it will be very important. Virtually all forecasts point to a minus 8..., between a minus 8 and a minus 13_per_cent. As it is, we seem to be living in six months the entire fall we saw in two years to the 2008 crisis. It is already talking about thousands of people in the dark, with which this means tension of public spending. Let's go to a scene of more expense and less tickets, just for the functioning of the auto-stabilizers of the welfare state. Now, the natural of the crisis must be accurately diagnosed. I think there is a strong sense of respect: this crisis was originally of offer, or is still of offer, since production has drastically reduced and has affected occupation. We have to think that it is a conjunctural phenomenon, and given that the infrastructure has not been damaged, and the productive capacity is kept intact, acting on the immediate problems of the enterprises – it is to say, the lack of liquidity –, it could gain enough time for the enterprises to return to the activity as soon as possible, trying to produce this quick recovery in the form of low. The main problem lies in our industrial fabric, which is made up of more than 98_percent of small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have any economic means to cope with a stalemate in admissions over a long period of time. For the vast majority of them, a long term is a long one. The issue of industrial minifundism in Catalonia is a problem that we will have to face at some point. Our proposals for respect are known – we have already sent them by writing and we have not heard of them again: providing rapid and zero-cost financing facilities, reducing the tax burden to a minimum, reducing the bureaucracy to get these aids, facilitating the adjustment of the plants through the rapid use of ERTO companies, and more than fifty-three issues to the Law of Presumables, following the advice of the Council, which have not only wanted to admit them to the deadline. Measures that sought to eliminate unnecessary expenses and redirect them to where they are most lacking: sanitation, education, hard work, reversal, knowledge, etc. Prioritising expenditure was able to relocate more than EUR 160 million. Don't push taxes, just prioritize. Citizens believe that the policies that need to be started immediately are those that vaginate directed to the reactivation of the offer. We need to focus on the promotion of new ideas that are directed to sectors that, in a short time, will have to provide unmet social demands, such as the attention to minors, if there is an asymmetric reincorporation to work and school, or specific health demands of the fight against coronavirus or the production of autochthonous health goods or also, for example, proposals for reformulation of the oci. We need to think about the position and put forward alternatives for the future. These and other measures, which we are willing to discuss, are the most effective solution to prevent the initial offer from becoming a demand and unnecessarily extending the outcome of the crisis. Instead of focusing on immediate solutions for workers and businesses, for the industrial and commercial fabric of Catalonia, they are dedicated to defending the approval of assumptions that no longer serve the purpose. They need to be obsolete and you yourselves already say that you will have to redefine them so well when you have to put them to practice. They are still reasonable to do what they have to do, which is to take on the reality as it is and lead the reconstruction of the Catalan economy. Now it's time to restart the production system and that means spending in this sense and public reversal. In your premise we only find expenditure running in under-millionaires to other offices and advisors, offices that do not serve for nothing and subsidies to fill the box to all this competitive economy that has allowed you to grow with you. For you, Mr. Aragones, approving these assumptions has become a personal matter. It's your presuppositions. I won't tell him it's not reasonable for you to want this, it's very human. But it's not what it's about. It is a matter of adopting real useful assumptions for Catalonia and its citizens. And those assumptions aren't. Only Mr. Torra had to admit that these assumptions obviously do not work. His house is a pot of grills, where no one gives the skeleton. I thought this late is important enough... – we already know that there are extraordinary situations, don't we? – but I thought that the assumption is a matter of government and that Mr. Torra would accompany him in a situation as exceptional as the one of this late. But this is already... In these moments of social and economic emergence it is necessary to make an effort to reallocate resources. These – I don't think I need to remind you – are scarce, and therefore it is your and the Government's obligation, to which it belongs, to manage them accurately and prioritize what is really important. And it doesn't seem like that's what you're doing on the assumption that they're bringing us here today. There are increasing parties dedicated to government propaganda, digital control, not the digital economy, TV3 or its pseudo-ambassations. You have rejected a move and without entering into your parliamentary debate our fifty-three items, which relocated all of these expenses superfluous to a fund against the coronavirus, endowed with 165 million euros. Can't you recognize that there are other priorities now? It is not presentable that, while the citizenry hopes that the necessary measures are taken so that salvation and well-being are reasonably assured, you are dedicated to laying sticks to the wheels, that you do not lead, that you drown in the palate and do not get to prove from the first hand what is happening in Catalonia. It is constantly speaking from the government of the great impulse to Catalan sanitation that supposes these assumptions and the truth is that it is not true. The presupposition of 2020 increases the amount allocated to Salut by 10.4 per cent compared to 2017, but what is really clear is that the quantity actually spent on saluting the year 2019, 10,500 million, is higher than that of the presuppositions of 2020 that are now approved, 9,659 million euros. Don't increase the game for Salut, it's replayed in relation to the presuppost executed in 2019. To finish adopting it, you have added that it will require an additional 1,800 million for Sanitat. Where do you think they're going with these assumptions? And in the end the conclusion is that the assumptions of 2020 do not recover in many councils the levels predicted in the details of Mr. Mas of 2010. In short, these assumptions will formalize a series of expenses that do not have a presuppositional support for the ticket band. And not just that, it is that the expenses that are assumed will not be enough to act decisively to reduce the stars of the crisis that we have in the world. That is to say, the assumptions will be born unbalanced and insufficient. And so, the best solution from our point of view is to act quickly and decisively, applying the three recommanables of the anti-crisis stigmas: timely, targeted and temporary. It is to say, at the present time, that you address a concrete objective and on a temporary basis. Implement consensual measures between all parties, so as to prolong the economic situation, starting from a crisis committee and preparing new assumptions. We have opposed these assumptions and we still oppose them not only because of ideological reasons, but also because of technical reasons. The assumptions that we want to answer to a strategy of future based on normalized brands, changes in business models, deep transformation of the market, planning incorporating uncertainty as a permanent variable, managing risk in volatile environments, must facilitate instruments of temporary support of returns to all levels: workers and accumulators, autonomists and entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized. The objective is to keep the productive capabilities out of danger. We'll have to count with a lot of resources to take care of these files. Here our ability to finance is very low given our high level of debt, which we have often repeated to him that it was excessive. We trust to achieve that of Europe, by means of the Government of Spain. We need to protect people and business capabilities. At the same time we must lead the transformation of Catalan business and administration, focusing on the talent of people and on our opening to the world. In this sense, we're giving them a hand. We offer to work together to bring about the economic measures of emergence that they call for, whenever there is loyalty and consent. And also to prepare some assumptions for 2021 that are realistic, that enclose the emergency situation that we have. It has to be good to face the great challenges that we have in front of us. As Winston Churchill said: "Value is what it takes to get up and talk, but it is also what it takes to learn and listen. With regard to the advice of the Guarantee Board, to tell them that the considerations which they had given to the accompanying law gave us the reason, therefore, it was completely justified to present them, whatever they had received was done. We've already told you that taking advantage of this legal ass to fit a whole series of legal changes and changes was to avoid strict parliamentary control and an accurate discussion of many issues. Trying to push the pension to the expressor or creating a money laundering instrument by means of the donation tax are very important and serious elements for having to store them from an omnibus law. It does not make sense, for another band, to approve a regulation of us imposed and/or of the already existing ones, just when, for purely economic logic, it is necessary to take the countermeasures: reduce taxes to increase the disposable income and allow a faster recovery of the economy. Now is it time to push the tax on overnight stays? Now? By the way, the levels of inflation, of which we appreciate our belonging to the European Union, allow it to be put into practical non-orthodox monetary policies, even though if your government has taken advantage of years of economic growth to reduce debt, we would not be in such a vulnerable situation now. Taking advantage of the Council's opinion, we have prepared a follow-up to the recommendations of the Council, in addition to a follow-up to the money collected for the donation levy, which you wanted to escape to the city of Catalonia, and to demand that the taxes to which the Catalans are attached are frozen for two years, in order to lighten the tax charges to which the Catalans are subject. It doesn't seem like it's time to push the inheritance tax just when we're patenting this emergency situation. Do they really think now is the time to push the fiscal pressure? We are clear that we are ahead of a great challenge and that it is only possible to overcome if we are all in the same direction and with the same strengths. From Ciutadans we propose to go a step further and constitute the autonomous forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia. A forum in the case of Parliament, because government and opposition leave the differences on one side and we work coordinated for the fight against Covid-19. We're all going to this ship. And you have to make it clear who we owe the citizen. If we want to get out of this, we'll do all the folding. And if we fuck each other, we fuck each other, too. There are only two alternatives: either we get all folded out or nobody comes out. And your trien. I would like to close by recalling Keynes' phrase that in times of crisis, only imagination is more important than knowledge. I think it takes a lot of knowledge and imagination at these times. We cannot allow idle resources and it is their responsibility to use them effectively. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.242.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of MP Assumpta Escarp, PSC Parliamentary Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.243.0	Good afternoon, Vice President. Members, Members, Vice-Presidents... First of all – and not to reiterate, I think it is important to say so too – to express our thanks, my thanks and that of my group to all those who every day make it possible for us to come out, from the world of salvation, from security, from cleanness, from the food chain and from transport. A thanks also to the servants of the chamber who today have made it possible for this House to develop with all the guarantees of security. It's a record of all those who, when we get out of this mess, will no longer be there, and the scalp to their families. And a hope in the name grows every day from high, some of them well-known and joyful. Look, it's weird to be here today, and I'm telling you, and after I've heard your speech. In a hemisphere with twenty-one Members, measures to prevent the spread of the disease with a global pandemic to which we all refer and which has captured all our social, economic and political forecasts. It's strange to discuss some laws that won't be... that their contents won't be used to address the needs generated or the initiations that caldran. Some laws that, as has been said, were no longer before... will not be now. This crisis has left many things to the discovery, among other things the need to stop yesterday's policy. And what we have now is to address today's policy in front of the Covid-19, but above all to consider tomorrow's policy. A new policy that puts public value, rebuilds it and is based on agreement; saving as many entrepreneurs as possible, the economy and places of work and building an economy that addresses growing inequalities and puts people at the center of politics. I was speaking this morning with Mr. Miquel Iceta on his proposal. The lesson of the crisis is that where our welfare is at risk, it's real. We need to pay much more attention to health risks, environmental risks and social risks. And that means having all the protection mechanisms activated, and that means public sector, that means resources, and that means governments. We need to take more seriously the things we knew could happen, the health risks, but also the climatic risks and inequalities. That is why it is so strange today, first of all, to talk about a law of assumptions and, now, about a law of measures that do not respond to the needs of the present or future. You wanted to start from a _marc, that of the presupposition of 2020, a presupposition prepared with presuppositions to the epidemic. It's his option. We would have preferred to work with a new brand. You have these two laws approved. Let's look from now on. We've heard a lot of good words so far, okay, but will they really put it in those terms, at the end of the broad and necessary agreement? I think they're the questions that are on the table today and that we should answer. Look, you're talking about 3,000 million that we'll have more, but these 3,000 million are already spent. And the law also contemplates taxation measures and more income for a tax we won't have, because we have to derive a lot from that tax, among other things, because it's obvious that things have changed. Therefore, it is difficult to continue discussing, but since we have to discuss the law of measures, we will discuss the law of measures. In any case, we did want to express our agreement to modify some of the taxes, as well as the Catalonian companies in Comú Pode, because this already had an agreement of the year 2016, that it is the taxes on empty habitats, sugary beguds, IRPF's autonomous tram, estates, donations..., and therefore, in these taxes, we would agree. We will not be around what you have come to call green taxation, among other things, in coherence. We said this at the time of the discussion of the Climate Change Law, in the sense that there will be no timely changes, but a green tax law agreed with the sectors involved. It is not worth making changes to the law and taking advantage of the accompanying law. We believe that a global, coherent and ambitious green taxation bet is needed. These days we talk a lot about the health pandemic, we talk a lot about this health crisis, but don't forget that the environmental crisis is still there. As I said earlier, many of these tickets will not be there and, in change, we will have many more structural expenses. You yourself, Vice President, have said that only in Salut expect an extraordinary expenditure of 1,800 million euros. Therefore, there are many things that will have to be modified and, in this case, manifest them as well as my group, if you want and really base your words on facts..., so we will look among all the agreement. And we must mobilize resources, we must mobilise resources to Europe, to the State – you said, and you are right – but we must also increase the debt. It's obvious they're going to be looking for resources. And we will have to modulate, possibly, a gradual increase in tax resources. And we're going to have to come up with a lot of things that so far seem difficult to us, but if we want to strengthen the current social protection system, the current health system, attention to dependency, maturity or improved guaranteed income systems, we're going to have to plant the tickets. And, therefore, this law will not be needed for the time being. This law, it seems to me that the Member who preceded me also gave it to me, is a compendium of legislative amendments. You use the technique of the law of measures to introduce into it all those legislative amendments, even to modify the things that have already been modified for the law of measures through the law of measures, or you have through the law of measures to be able to amend by decree some approved laws. That, the truth is, is that it's not just a poor enough legislative technique, but it shows a very low democratic quality. Basically, because you extend to Parliament the ability to discuss in important areas, and therefore, they listen, I don't tell them, they tell them their readers also in the reports, which is a technically and legislatively deficient law. We have presented various papers, some against these legislative or suppressed amendments, others with much broader concerns. They have rejected many of our ideas which, in our view, improved the text and, perhaps, at last, set better priorities. But it is obvious that both the Law of Presumptions and the Law of Measurements mark political wills that are not coincident with ours. I want to make a point here that I thought would finally approve, but I have seen that no, what is the IRPF's deduction for sponsorship; this statement that now social and cultural sectors are calling for criteria to be able to survive and to be able to sustain themselves. We already introduced it to them in 2017. They're not voting for her. Today I think we've been there, but no, I don't think they'll win it at the end. And, therefore, I believe that today there are certain sectors, especially cultural ones, that will not understand what we are doing. We have introduced some issues that we have been able to deal with, and I want to thank – and I have not done so before – the Member of the Republican Left and putting some of the law, the Member of the Sans, her predisposition and that, in any case, we may, in committee, outside, also incorporate some of our issues into the opinion. For example, what we always claim is that the generality's statements are intended for social housing, or the tax reduced for single-parent families. Important, a subject that, now in perspective, is as if it were a certain premonition: the creation of a commission for the poor child. And we made the proposal coming from very high levels of child poverty, and now we are seeing how, day by day, they grow up and how digital Britain deepens even further in the inequalities of these infants. And now that I'm talking about the digital bretxa, the school and the children, I'd like to ask them to fix what's going on with the tag to the school maid. It was said before the Member of Parliament Romero, not only that the assemblies have had to do much of the work, but that there is now no way, many times, that it is recharged, and, therefore, we have a difficult problem. I believe that creating a commission for the poor child was not creating a carrec; it was a compromise, a political compromise of struggle against a shacra that we carry too much watering time. Other measures spoke of the better, or spoke of the better working conditions in the social sector. Basically a thought in the sense of increasing the sufficiency index of Catalonia and an increase in the modules of the centres of minors and residents of large people to improve, as I said, the working conditions of the social sector. Because the crisis of the coronavirus has put us before the Mirall in some respects, and in that of the residents of great people, believe 'that the image that we see in the Mirall has struck us, but it is that we do not like anyone. And, therefore, it has put in evidence not only a bad management, but that we have a bad model. A focus that has been based more on the competence between councils than on the person in an integral and cross-cutting way. And with a staff working in these centers with poor, poorly paid and mistreated working conditions. And this yes, Vice President, that they all have the face of a woman. And this is a subject that would be worth winning. Also in terms of health and education, there has been a follow-up of measures that we have put in place, and have been incorporated, for the recovery of educational and work conditions. And above all, a theme, which is reiterated on our part, that is the equipping of staff between concerted and public health and social networks. There are some points I want to make, aside from this commission for the poor child. One is the agreement that we have reached on the sign language for the development of the law and to put resources to it; I believe that all groups have rejected Fesoca's demand and, therefore, there is an ample effort. The creation of a contingency fund in education to face the return of the recognised debt. And an important issue, which facilitates and wants to help the presence of women on command lines to local police. It is a matter of, in accordance with the basic principles of public sector calls, that we can make it easier for more women to be on command. It's a matter of equality, but above all it's a woman's look in security, which isn't really there right now. And a theme that allows the continuity of service in health and social service, after the frailty of evil..., well, the law that bore his surname, and that in any case, I have always said that wrongly named "Aragonese law", but that, in any case, the theme allows the service to be maintained in this..., while waiting for the law of concertation. The honourable Member before me commented that they brought the law to the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which makes two assessments. My group has submitted papers, subsequent papers, in the same sense, that is, following the recommendations of the Board of State Guarantees. There is one, which I believe we agree with, because practically all the groups have presented it, which cannot be legitimised in a general and ubiquitous way either the Generality or the Barcelona Assembly to exercise the popular accusation, and therefore these two articles will be deleted. Now, different is what makes donations and bonus donations. And about these there are various interpretations. I believe that the message that we have presented is in the right line with respect to the Council of State Guarantees, but the groups that support the Government, or that understand the Council's considerations, or try to make some interpretations, in our view, very much about what it is and what they understand by general interest. Finally, from our group, as I say, we will vote in favour of some of the articles, but we will vote against the opinion, and we will not do so out of partisanship, as Mrs Budó always likes to say. We'll do it because this is her answer to yesterday, and then we're going against it. Therefore, with consistency, we will also do so today. At the same time that, as I said, we want to reiterate our willingness, from loyalty, cooperation and collaboration, to work on the instruments that allow a broad agreement for reconstruction. They are not moments of confrontation, but of agreement, even though, sometimes, feeling some member of the Government of the Generality, I doubt that they really believe it. And now yes, and I end up with the best wishes for all, the deputies and deputies who are here, the ones who follow us from home and those who have abandoned us already, because this hour does not alienate me, I also wish them all very well. Thank you very much. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.244.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.245.0	Yes, President. I pray that the eight of you will stop my intervention so that you can give the health applause and the solidarity applause to all those people who are on the front line, therefore, fighting against the coronavirus. Well, first of all, I'd like to start my intervention by saying that fair taxation can save lives, that fair and green taxation can save lives. And, in short, it is about taxation that we are debating today in the Tax, Financial and Administrative Measures Act. I will focus our intervention on three axes. The first is a fair and green tax reform that's been years since we needed it. The second is why it is even more felt to approve this fair and green tax reform before the health and economic emergence. And thirdly, an agreement that strengthens the dialogue and solutions before confrontation and conflict. A fair and green tax reform, 560_million euros of us entering the year in a situation of economic normality, if it is possible to speak of economic normality in the current capitalist system. If this tax reform had been in effect for the last two years of Mas and Rajoy's retail trade, we would have had nearly 6,000 million euros to shield our public services, especially public health. Today, in the midst of health and economic emergence, practically unanimously, we see who is protecting and who is responsible for the public, it is the public sector. It is public health, which today we applaud in this chamber, which responds, despite the difficulties; the workers and the social workers, the home care services, the Bombers, the Mossos and the local police. Disappears today the mantra of the right and liberal that managed it privately is more efficient than the public. Jumps through the air the mantra of the most society and less welfare. Today everyone is calling for a stronger public sector. Welcome back. But a stronger public sector wants to say more resources, build a dic against retail and more money. And that's what we do with this green and fair tax reform. In the first place, who else won paid more. Second place, who wins less pays less. And in the third place, which pollutes the most paid. Every time we want to fool ourselves again, they say it's possible to lower taxes and, at the same time, strengthen public health, they're deceiving us. And we would do well to remember that this is one of the lessons of the crisis. And we'll have to remember, because, if they can, they'll do it again. In fact, it's what PP and Citizens are doing today with their reviews: demanding more resources for public health and asking for tax cuts to who else they have, as opposed to paying more. The virus impacts on a society that is unequal, with workers and workers who, despite having work, are poor, and taxation serves above all to redistribute wealth, to fight against inequality and to reduce poverty. This tax reform, for example, makes a person who enters noranta_mil_euros–noranta_mil_euros–, which represents only 1.5_percent of the declarants in Catalonia, 52,000 people, pay more than he paid so far. Basically, a person who earns 120,000 euros a year will pay sixty more euros a month. I think it is absolutely a reasonable effort. I believe that it is completely out of date, with the situation of crisis and economic health emergencies, the debate about what was middle class and is not middle class in Catalonia. And before, for example, situations that we live on an international level: a hospital treatment, for example, against the coronavirus in the United States is $35,000, and there are people who can't afford it; and, unlike, here, our public health protects us. And let us say that it cannot be that our teachers and our teachers cover so little, or that the workers and workers of the residence only earn a thousand euros, or that, for example, we have fewer ICUs per inhabitant than other countries of the European Union. But when we do that, we're talking about taxation, too. Otherwise, we're deceiving the city again. This fair and green tax reform that we are approving today means that, for example, an inheritance of EUR 5_million paid Catalonia EUR 1.2_million. The Ciutadans and PP model is that an inheritance of EUR 5_million pays to the Community of Madrid, or, in this case in Andalusia, less than EUR 20_million. This is the difference between you and us. And this is the difference of his model. Its model is sanitary detailing and tax gifts to the rich. Ours is fighting inequality and shielding public servants. In Catalonia, 30_percent of the population leaves no inheritance, no head, no inheritance, no inheritance. The only heresies held by the popular classes of this country are public school and public sanitation. And defending his heritage is protecting public services, because when a person comes to the ICU doesn't matter, unlike what happens in the United States, how much money he has or who he is. And that's the difference between a strong welfare state or what you defend, which is a strong society with less being. And, ultimately, also a tax reform that speaks of green taxation, so necessary also in the climate emergency situation, with a new tax on installations that affects the environment; 180_million euros that we will charge yes or no from large electrical and telephone companies, that they made, for example, a benefit of 5,000_million euros a year 2019. This is also the difference between you and us. We need a way out of health and economics, but we cannot forget, in this case, the climate. As I said, for example, Greta Thunberg, on Earth Day: we need to react because our planet, our home, is in flames. And finally, on the proposal or the proposal for tax reform, sometimes it was good to compare what we have with what we have with what has sometimes stood above the table. And, for example, the year 2017, the turnkey of the agreement between the CUP, Junts per Catalunya – at that time, Junts per el Si – and Esquerra Republicana with the PDECAT, had as its main fiscal axis the tax on non-productious goods, a tax that, theoretically, taxed the luxury goods to Catalonia. Well, its recap for the year 2017, 2018 and 2019_has been of only 2,1_million euros, that is to say, 700,000_euros per year. We achieve a tax reform of 560_million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.246.0	Deputy Cid, I'm asking you to bet a moment, because the chamber clings to the applause that we usually give at this time in recognizance of the task of health professionals. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you, Congressman, and thank you to all of you. When you want, I can resume your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.247.0	He said that it was good to compare the sunset with that existing, and the year 2017 we had zero entries in estates, zero entries in IRPF, zero entries in green taxation. I think it's good to talk about redistributing the wealth, but it's still better than the Official Gazette of the Generality. The second priority of intervention is..., of our intervention, the second priority was to say that it is why you have felt approved of this tax reform, fair and green, in this context of health and economic emergence. Some groups have found that it is better to withdraw this presumption and also the law of fiscal measures and start again, it is to say, not to have the presumption of year 2020. Seeing the example of the Ciutadans reviews and the PP is clearly an excuse to prevent this tax reform from being put into practice. Postponing approval today of this would still require a much longer period of time to develop the assumptions, would further reduce the Generality's 2020 entries at a time that, as we see, is more necessary than ever. And now that fake news is fashionable, maybe it's fake economy to applaud from the balconies to demand more resources from the toilet and, at times, block more tickets on the premises of the Generality. And it is necessary to approve this fair and green tax reform in order to keep it in full by 2021. Miri, it is obvious that after these assumptions we will need a reconstruction plan with an economic and social rescue plan. And it is obvious that it is better to do so with a tax reform that is fully implemented, that can collect much more resources, year 2020, as our president, Jessica Albiach, has proposed in this case. And the proof that this fair and green tax reform is fundamental is the cabrioles that the PSC does. In the first place, it presents a statement to the totality that they are supposedly in agreement with the tax reform, but not with the text, in this case, of the bill of measures. Today they will vote sixty, sixty articles in favor of the Bill of Measures. Sixty articles include, in short – which is basically almost 50_percent of the law –, including all tax measures, which is the core of the law. They have left one – I think it may be the excuse – which is the tax on large electricity and large telephones, which may be here shaking the roads and then asking that the assumptions are not taken, but, theoretically, they are in favour of the law, in this case, of the other part of the tax reform. I think they don't understand and they don't understand what they're doing, but maybe – say so – the electoral calculation isn't just Mr. Torra's thing, it's also the PSC's thing. The third axis of our intervention, an agreement that reinforces the dialogue and solutions before confrontation and conflict. One might ask how it is possible for a group of eight Members to achieve the major fiscal reform of the past two years and that some members of the government have repeatedly refused to do so in the various parliamentary processes. We believe that the government, or perhaps a part of the government, that is still in place in the electoral strategy of conflict and confrontation, did not believe that we really sought the agreement, that we sought solutions for the Catalans and Catalans day by day, and then it was too late. It is possible that this agreement, not for its content, but to agree with whom we do not share its strategy of total confrontation, has an electoral cost for us, but we know that who wins with this agreement is the majority of citizens, especially of the popular barrels. Catalonia in Comú We can be at the antipodes of this government or of statements like those of the Presidential Councillor or of the deputy Laura Borràs. In a health crisis, in an emergency, criticism, debate, discrepancy are legitimate, I think it enriches us and allows us to find better solutions to do it. It would not have to be legitimate to have the "bang, the political battle and the constant electoral calculus." He didn't just have it all for him not all. The words of Councilwoman Budo think they produce pain and shame, even to a lot of independenceists, and should immediately remove and rectify them. Today, the people who suffer, who suffer, who are distressed demand answers, health solutions also to their economic dramas. People do not want to brag, conflict or confrontation; people want a government that governments for everyone, for the whole country. Catalonia needs, now more than ever, dialogue and solutions in all senses, in all camps, in all axes; but now it also needs, at the economic and social level, to face the reconstruction and the economic and social rescue plan before the constant electoral cycle, the confrontation throughout all aspects; they will have our strength and the will of dialogue and solutions as we have done in this assumption. It's how we understand politics, first people, then party interests. We have demonstrated today that it is possible, that they are not empty words, that we have words – as our President, Jessica Albiach, has said – and that when we propose to agree we come to agreements and improve the day-to-day lives of Catalans and Catalans. Today, they win 'as better, better, and lose 'as worse, better. And, above all, today, they win all those Catalans and Catalans who hold their major heritage in public school and, above all, public sanitation. And it is only through taxation, taxation of high yields, taxation of who else, taxation of large assets, that it is possible to fight against inequality, reduce poverty and redistribute wealth. Only then is it possible to have quality public services, quality sanitation, strong public health and education and a strong public school with a tax base. Whoever says the opposite is deceiving the citizenry, because a fair and green taxation allows a more cohesive and less unequal society. And because a fair and green tax allows and could save even more lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.248.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP-Crida Constituent, it is the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.249.0	Thank you. We wanted to share a thorough reflection with all those and all those that these days are painted, both for their salvation and for their most immediate future. For what it does to control the effects on Covid-19, a very simple message of rationality. Our company has enough scientific knowledge and technical means to be able to give a quick response and end the effects of the Covid-19. What's different is that we have a socio-economic system, capitalism, which is a burden to be able to give this quick answer. When a system puts business benefits ahead of salvation, it passes what we are living these days. And also, for all those people who are painted for their presence and above all for their future, from an economic point of view and material stability, the days that there are alternatives, that no one wants them to believe that the political measures that will be effective in the proper months are the only alternative. We have another alternative, and we also place it, to say how it goes because it's the big fortunes, the banks, the multi-million-dollar companies that pay for this crisis. If they are not these subjects, no one doubts that they are the workers and the workers. On the law of companionship, if we were already absolutely against the generation of 2020, which seems to us to be absolutely irrational now; it did not feel that, with the reality that changed the last seven weeks, they are planting the same law on us. We gave them to us six weeks ago: "Remove the law, get it back and talk about it, but it seems that they did not come from the government and who gives them the support to do this – as at least – prospecting to see alternatives. Nor would it seem that they want to take advantage of those elements that different groups – we, some of us – have made to the accompanying law and that they could be an alternative from now on to the need of our people. Certainly, the withdrawal of assumptions is not only required by us and different parliamentary groups; they are also planted by a whole series of social movements and combat trade unionism, with a lot of implementation in teaching – majority, indeed –, with a lot of implementation in the public sector and entities linked to the guaranteed income of citizens, the Platform in Defense of Public Servants and many other entities that are asking them to withdraw to have a content that does not give an answer. And concrete questions that we raise as a concrete alternative to this accompanying law. First of all, to ensure that all health resources are under public management, not under public intervention, which we still don't know what it means, but managed. Minimum entrances for all Catalans and all Catalans. It's not possible to see a reality of self-employment from 20 to 30 percent, and when these benefits end or for whom you don't have the benefit that we're not thinking about how we give the alternative. Guarantee of habitating to everyone. It can't be that those who have been doing business for decades with housing still keeping their benefits and, above all, putting up with the accompaniments. We are very clear that we do not have any competence in labour law, but, look, if we are independent, among many other things, we are still, of course, independent – today we have not talked about this in this Parliament – it is because we also want to have a regulation that can, from here, from Catalonia, give alternatives to the rights of workers and workers and activity..., and of job stability. And why those who were going to reform the State have already shown us that neither repealing the counter-reform of work nor repealing the law or any other real progressive alternative. Therefore, we, with what we count is a part of the Labour Inspectorate, put it to work because there is a reality for which it is an alternative to job stability. Starting point, that's the big problem with this measurement bill. So, look, the big problem is that you don't have a real willingness to increase tickets. For a great deal of effort to justify the tax reform that they have made, in the end what it means – and we will set an example – is that a person who pays EUR 110,000 and what it means will only pay EUR 25,000 more and that this year, with the government's own data, we will only have a recapitulation of more than 173_million_i_mig. Does anyone think that at the present time, at the present stage, with 173_millions_i_mig we have an alternative for what the crisis resulting from the Covid-19 entails? The answer is known to everyone in this country and in this room. They announced – yes – yesterday, some members of the government, who went with a shoc plan, that they would explain to us how they would do this shoc plan, the one they were announcing, if it is not increasing tribute to big companies with benefits, to the bank or to big fortunes. Please, give us an answer. From the rest of the content of what this accompanying law is going to be, so, look, even some concrete questions that are not not positive for the current circumstance, but that are contrarias. We'd have to see what you're up to in relation to being able to sanction workers, repartitioning in terms of prescription, going on three years, or disrupting tourism with new tourist accommodation figures. We could go ahead and make a criticism of them, but we also want to make proposals that are our reviews. But before we make them the proposal, we want to give them another thought. Mirin, we are socialists, which means that our ideas are not compatible with the social relations that make up capitalism. But what we are proposing, we are anti-capitalists, but the proposals we are making are not to end these with capitalism, but because capitalism does not end with us. What can we vote on today and approve in this Parliament? They could vote, all of you, that those and those – those of the CUP – that cover more than sixty thousand euros pay more, and even more those that cover more than ninety thousand dollars and thus have 1,000 million more entries. Also, what could they approve of today? CUP Essence. Points of a decent wage, because all workers and workers, and even all subcontracts and subcontracts, have a minimum wage guarantee of 1,239 euros. Also what could they vote – and does it seem like they're voting against it? So look, that the workers and the workers who saw them withdraw a 5-per-cent of their salary in 2010 – certainly, many workers and workers who provide health services these days through concerts and agreements – can recover them. It's a curious situation. Today, on the eve of the evening, there have been many Members and Members – not only here, but at home – who have applauded the health workers. So, in a minute's time, they will vote against these same health care providers being able to recover 5_percent of their wages that they were redistributed in 2010. We could also approve 500 million more for guaranteed citizenship income. Structural foundations also to reverse privatizations, breakdowns in educational services or right to housing or training in the matter of equality, but they do not seem to do so. We, however, still insist on more proposals: to manage all health resources in a public way, to transform guaranteed income into universal income, to guarantee housing for everyone, and to put up with accompaniments. You propose not only for now, but also for the future, of the twelve that we have launched. And we want to end not only by involving the Government or the forces of the Government, together with political forces at this stage of the conflict or at these four concrete measures that we wanted to implement in our intervention, but also at the conjunction of the Catalan society. The time that comes will be either of struggle or of infusing our conditions; therefore, we are in a position to fight. And the last idea in relation to tomorrow, tomorrow, is that it's April 25th, one of our national days, that of Valencia. We always say: "Our north is the south. And now, more than ever, the virus is the system; let's fight it with the popular unit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.250.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.251.0	Thank you, President – no Government –, deputies and deputies, the Bill of Measures commented on them in a brief intervention in the reply to the debate on the Bill of Presumptives, apart from the entries, these assumptions contemplate an increment of 4,174_million euros from the financing model, and also an increment of 172_million euros, for the year 2020, fruit of the increase of taxes – I do not know if I want the merit of Mr Cid, so we give the merit to Mr Cid – therefore, fruit of the increase of taxes of Podes. But, I've told you before, these forecasts won't complement; they won't complement because they're girls on an estimate of a growth in the '1,9_per_cent economy, and what we have ahead is a decline in the economy from 8 to 13_per_cent, which is a very different thing. And, therefore, if taxes are not imposed, it will hardly be possible to supplement the input forecasts that have been made. And, therefore, the situation, the health crisis has radically changed the scenario of the assumptions, but also the Bill of Measures that was presented two months ago. And it gives me the impression that they continue to oblivion – and we must say again and reiterate – that it is very good to redistribute the wealth. We also agree that wealth must be redistributed, but it is essential to make it rich. And, according to fiscal policies, what they do is not create wealth, but it's create poverty. Therefore, I believe that we should be oriented towards one sense and not to another. And then here we start with the rule of taxes that you increase with this Bill of Measures: the tax on empty housing, where, of course, in the statement of reasons of the Law, they say: "Let us apply bonuses to large housings that are destined for social logging, and, in reality, then, in the articulate, what they do is reduce the bonuses that they already have for social housing, that is, penalize those that are intended for social use. The tax on sugary drinks will increase again, not for health reasons – we have debated it enough – only with objective only recaptatoris. The new tax on electricity and telecommunications, "those who have more, who pay more, I don't know what... So that has a whole set of problems, doesn't it? This tax compromises economic activities and, therefore, compromises jobs. This tax will not be paid by electricity or telecommunications; it will be paid by consumers, who are the workers. Yes, we will pay consumers on the electricity bill – which is a reasonable price, we know –, we will pay with the electricity bill and we will pay with the telecommunications bills. Therefore, there will be an increase in prices, too, of electricity and telecommunications bills, but, more importantly, it will damage the depopulation, because it will be paid, for example, for electricity transport poles or for telephone network transport poles and this, is needed more? In the most unpopulated areas. They will pay, pay more and, in this way, you will help to promote depopulation, rather than repopulation. Keep going. IRPF, let's push the tax back to that of more than ninety-thousand, I don't know what..., and let's put back the yields of less than thirty-thousand euros that – I insist – is 80_percent of Catalan taxpayers, have yields of less than thirty-thousand euros, which are the ones that pay more than all of Spain. Impost of estates. Increase the types, lower the bonuses. And the truth, with this health crisis in the middle, in the middle of this health crisis, with 9,200 people dead, do you really think it's time to push the types of inheritance tax? Now, it's not a thought, they don't push taxes on all Catalans; no, not all of them. There's not a couple of them down: theirs. Literally, yours. Who are they going down to? Ah! , to the beneficiaries of the box – as it says? – the resistance box. For these we do improve the donation tax. Ah! , push the taxes to all; lower them only to yours. Listen to me, I've finally left the tourist tax. Increase the type..., a trip to Barcelona – certainly, a trip disconnected from the tourist promotion, as if at this time this tourist promotion was not necessary. Well, and, again, I repeat: at this point, the level of activity of tourism-based economic activities, at this point, is zero: zero. Do you know what are the only hotels that are open at this time in Catalonia? Do you know what the only hotels are open? Those who have allocated their facilities to health services. Missatge: pam! , we're pushing the tourist state tax. Listen to me, we don't share this willingness to increase taxes and less to increase that tax. Counselor, I have heard you say something that I share with you and that you have with me some time, that I have planted, and today you have planted it. I'm sure there's matisos, I'm sure there's matisos. He said it this morning and he repeated it this late, a short while ago, in this very farish place. You said: "We need measures to ensure money for workers, families and businesses. So we absolutely agree. We absolutely agree, but what you're doing today is the opposite; absolutely the opposite. Allow me to say it, if we agree to this? : fiscal breach. We are able to give up certain tax issues in this emergency situation. Is it possible for the government, too, to give up its fiscal planning that they are making with this Bill of Measures? Give up these increments, temporarily abolishing – and if they don't do it now, they'll have to do it by two months – temporarily abolishing the tax on stays in tourist establishments. Don't you see what's on them? That they don't see what's falling on all the folds? The only way we have to get out of it – economically speaking, healthily is another – but the only way we have economically speaking to get out of this situation is by the people, not by obscuring the butxaques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.252.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Congresswoman Raquel Sans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.253.0	Thank you, President, Vice President. I would like to begin this intervention with the work done by all the technicians and advisors of our group and, in particular, by Jaume Martorell, without which the work we do here would be practically impossible. Vice-President, we are here after a long way with the assumptions discussed and to approve the law of measures that allow them; a way that up to its end, almost forty days later, because of the irresponsibility of Citizens, forty days without resources that the Government had predicted with these assumptions and that today they are of vital importance. Some assumptions that – as has been said and repeated – will have to be refocused to give response to the needs of the humane crisis that we are living in. The 29th generation that Vice-President Aragonès was presenting in this Parliament is still far from complete. Three months have passed since this presentation, a delay that allows us to get a clear idea of which are the rhythms of a presuppositional and of the disarray that I would have to start dealing with some new assumptions, as some parliamentary groups claim. Only parliamentary processing could take us three more months and, if we add the necessary paperwork to the government, we're talking about, like at least, half a year, when what comes up, so they're resources here and now. We can't wait for six months for a political party wear that justifies expanding the assumptions that this country needs. We need to speed up the Generality's ability to mobilize all the tools available today. And there's only one thing they put at us is to postpone these assumptions until October. We should not have wanted to face the social emergencies of 2020 with assumptions of 2017. If they were already insufficient in a context of normality, in a context of social emergence they put the government's economic capacity to respond to the needs of a pandemic that has, of course, shaken the system and that will certainly force us to rethink the economic and social model on which our society is founded. We're talking about assumptions that are now of emergence and you, from the main group to the opposition, put it through. Fortunately, however, today we are putting an end to this obstructionism and will approve some assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2020. Presumables that, as has already been recalled by my companies, allow the Generality's spending capacity to be increased by €3,000_million; €3,000_million that would be essential to be able to respond to the needs generated after this crisis. Some assumptions that also mark the path we have to follow to get out - in, the path of great consensus and solidarity. Both the assumptions as well as the Bill of Measures that we will now vote on have been worked for an extensive coalition that went beyond the government, and who is not, is, either because he has a model of society in the antipodes of this settlement, or because he has prioritized other interests. Well legitimate, of course, but we understand that the current moment also demands opposition no longer to stand on the side of the country's government, but to do so on the side of the citizenry, especially on the side of the most vulnerable. Here we are few and hit by the health emergency that we have been facing for weeks, with more uncertainty than we did not answer for the aftermath of this crisis. But from the Republican Left, we have one thing clear: the failed receptions of 2008 are not the ones that will solve the new problems of 2020. The only viable answer is to strengthen and modernise our welfare state so as not to leave anyone behind; this is our priority and with this law of measures the Government seeks to generate the necessary resources to maintain a welfare state that has been closed in order to be able to dispose of ICU beds, so as not to collaps the health system, which has been key in managing the monetary targets that have spread out in replacement of the food beaks, or in order to be able to respond to the emergence that is living in the residents of the great people. A welfare state that will also be key to the debt and that we will have to strengthen for when we can give answers to those who have lost their jobs, those who will have to close the business, those who will not return any income or who will see minutes, in a very worrying way, their resources, those who have lost loved ones. It had cost a lot, too, to let the decade of austerity lie, the wrong bet of some governments to face an economic crisis with the reduction of income and the reduction of spending. This meant a direct impact on the pillars of this welfare state when the city needed it the most. Now, after a lot of effort, we will approve the assumptions that recover the expenditure levels expected in 2010 without recovering the deficit of 2010. If we're just hanging out from the generality's work, we could say that we're out of time in fat cows so we can spend when the leaner ones arrive. And we have done so, not only do they deny our welfare state, but generate us rights for our time, such as guaranteed citizenship income. With these assumptions and this law of measures, the Generality has put its finances in order to assume this cost that will be high, that will be very high. Only in a way of example, now a few days ago, Vice President Aragonès announced that, almost immediately, it will be necessary to mobilise the first 1,000_million euros through a line of loans under the guarantee of the Catalan Institute of Finance. So, what comes first is resources, we need resources, and this bill of measures is set to generate those resources, and it does it progressively, so it pays the most. And with three points: reform of the inheritance and donation tax, reform of the IRPF, creation of us environmental taxes. I mean, pay more who's got more, who's got more, who's got more, who's got more, who's got more, who's got more, who's got more, who's got more. Because this is the fiscal policy we defend from the Republican Left. Ras and short: that pays more than you have, a maximum that is still more necessary to apply in times of crisis as it is today. In the context that we are living with public representatives it is necessary to demand, if possible, even more responsibility and more public ethics, for which it is unacceptable to train like Ciutadans to ask the government for more investment in health, education, social affairs, agriculture, culture, and also criticise the fiscal policy that proposes this law of measures and that, in pre-crisis figures, it previews to collect 543_million euros per year. How do you pay for all these investments? Look, one side might come to claim from the government of the state the resources that surround Catalonia, that is, the money that we pay Catalans and Catalans and that they don't come back. We, this, believe me, do it actively and passively, but I reveal the surprise: these moneys do not arrive. If it were for you, then we wouldn't have to claim one thing or do the other. So, say'mcom'? We need resources for people and, therefore, we also need to make a clear bet on fair, progressive and green taxation. And they don't make demagogic or rhetorical empty with the "syringuitos" racqueted disk. Three_of_each_four euros, that is to say, three_quarters of this premise is destined for salvation, in the first term; for social matters and education. And the PSC, so, we also have to say, the paper they played didn't like us very much. It happened months ago that you would do better and that the tax reform of the Generalitat was not enough left-wing, that it was not very progressive. And when they have the opportunity to contribute, so they haven't presented a single message that you can increase the Generality's entries. Moreover, they intend to reduce them with an item that aims to introduce bonuses to the IRPF for donations that are in agreement with the Spanish sponsorship law. That is to say, a modification that could mean reducing the Generality's admissions by 33_million_i_mig euros. At a time of greatest need, in the full emergence of the Covid-19, the government cannot give up this money, which would be left to the butxaques of the richest. We have to tell you, it seems to us to be a more own proposal of the bourgeoisie of the 19th century than of a socialist of the 21st century. Members and Members, the moment demands seriousness and truth for us, and this compromise with a public debate of honesty also implies recognizing that if we are only attacked by the Government of Catalonia, we could say that the work has been done to mobilize resources now, but we also have to acknowledge that we are under the rules of deficit and expenditure of the Spanish State, rules which, unlike the European institutions, the Government of the State has not yet suspected. And, even more, the generality is having a hard time accessing the debt markets. Difficult, above all, for the financing structure of the Spanish State. It is normal for an investor to return at the time of investing in an administration with skills and responsibility for health, education, social services, but 80_percent of their income depends on beasts of the State that are managed with arbitrariness and incompliments. Actually, it doesn't seem like a good deal. The numbers speak for themselves: in the last decade, while the State has seen its entries increase by 83_per_cent, those of the autonomous communities have only increased by 18_per_cent. The ability to generate Generalitat tickets is, therefore, limited. To make - in an idea, the law of measures that we will approve today, as I said, you plan to recap, or to recap, 453_million euros per year, but only with the cost overrun of the pandemic in the matter of salvation it is estimated that it could involve an expenditure of more than 1,800_million euros. For the time being, the measures of the State have taken account of the Generality, with the retaliation of 55_percent of the active policies of occupation, and also at future cost, advancing money from future beasts. Go on, the government of the state has not entered anything you're not expecting, but more quickly all the contrary. When we talk about fiscal policy, about infra-financing, we talk about this, about the government's real capacity to respond to the needs of Catalonia's citizens. Therefore, it is a good time to remind those formations that govern the State that it is necessary to increase the Generality's entrance capacity. The companies and companies of the PSC and of the commons, now that they have responsibilities of the government in Madrid, are at their fingertips to make this underfunding possible. They have to move the file and they have to do it quickly because this requirement in the State is vital. We would say that it is of extreme urgency for the market debt and also for the benefit of the European liquidity mechanisms, that is to increase them, certainly, because they are insufficient, but they must profit and redistribute between the territories. Of course, taxation is key in the law accompanying assumptions, but the cost of the law of measures goes much further. It also serves us to make an inn every day of the legislative structure of the Administration. Thus, this law of measures also includes and structures the Generality's commitments to refinance education from zero to three years in the long run of own years, of own exercises, or to strengthen the role of the public bank of the ICF, as Vice-President Aragonès, a public bank, not a political bank, claims. One inn a day where we have always sought consensus where possible, which is why we have given measures to combat the emergence in the field of housing, defining better and respecting the concept of great affections. We have also reached a great deal of consensus on how to promote the promotion of police employment offers with a gender perspective – before Mrs Escarp spoke to us – or agreeing to the creation of a commission for children, vital, which must be used to put the children's needs at the heart of the public policies of the Government of the Generality. Today, however, we are here forty days later than I would have played and, therefore, we cannot fail to make a reference to the opinion of the Guarantee Board which called for Ciutadans. An opinion that unanimously – unanimously – is in favour of the government in the assumptions, and practically its totality is also in measures. For this reason, and bearing in mind the imperative need to adopt this law of measures, and aware of the fineness of the Spanish judicial system, we have submitted submissions in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of State Guarantees. But I can't be told, that public administrations can't act to defend civil and political rights, while parties like Vox camp freely to limit them, say much more of the shortcomings of the current legal order and its defenders than of the political opportunity to present these statements. And here we would like to profit from solidarity with the deputy of Podemos, of the Madrid Assembly, Isa Serra, sentenced to prison for defending the right to housing. That no one is wrong: the authoritarianism of the state's judicial institutions is a danger to democracy. In short, the law of measures illustrates Esquerra's bet for a progressive and green taxation, illustrates Esquerra's bet for freedom and republicanism, for an empowered citizenry, to undertake its own vital project, free of public and private economic and social oppressions, as expressed by the first mayor of the State, the Republican Nativity Yarza, when he said that his wish was to make Catalonia a free, worshipful and bitter people of that social justice that we all desire. Today we have presented our proposal to do so: broad fronts, beyond politics, also with social and economic agents. It is a matter of reaching a country agreement so as not to leave anyone behind, and this is only achieved with equality, progress and social justice. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.254.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is now, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the deputy Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.255.0	Thank you, President, Vice President, Members of Parliament. It seems to me that they are the last interventions of a long day. People, health professionals, social workers, who are now in the trench facing this pandemic have been told again and again. Together with them, the people of the security services, etcetera, etcetera, who are also there. But as thanks is not one of those that is spent, nothing goes on to repeat them and to say and give these thanks again. So, in this sense, first of all I'd like to start here. Also accompany those families who are suffering because of the situation that some family members have lost, or those who are struggling to overcome this disease and who are struggling to get out of this pandemic and this situation. Two general considerations, and after some questions already more concrete than the detail of what would be the law owning measures that we are now commenting on and discussing. Both general considerations. It seems to me that the last Member, the Member of the Republican Left, and the Member, too, of the commons has also referred to it – it is logical, we are supporting these laws of assumptions and measures – they have highlighted something that other groups, quite rightly, have foetally opposed, which is whether or not to have these assumptions and to have these measures. So, yes, it is necessary to have these measures, this law of measures, it is necessary to have these assumptions. Why should we have these assumptions and these measures, even though it is in certain circumstances that it is certain that they have changed the scenario in which they were thinking and generated themselves? Why? Because we consider that they are assumptions that are thought of with entries that could hardly be considered..., the Member of Parliament, Rodriguez, now in fact, and said that they cannot be made, but as they are now able to account for these entries because they are thought of with 2019 entries, which 2020, frankly, we cannot do, and therefore the 2021 assumptions will already see how they can come to stand, in some way. Therefore, if we have this accounting opportunity to put in about 3,000 more_million for growth, apart from also assuming tax increases, then it is something we can't give up, certainly. And it's true that the screenplay has changed, but there are resources that allow us to adapt these new entries and these new assumptions to the new scene. Who are they? Presuppositional modifications that may be there. Therefore, it is essential that there may be these assumptions, it is essential that there may be this law of measures, even though the screenplay has changed. Certainly, it has changed, but they are more necessary than ever, and therefore we welcome the fact that these assumptions may be there. According to the general view, which, in any case, will allow me later, with some of the comments, say. They are assumptions that suppose a pact, a pact between three political formations, and two that we are present in the government. And this pact of the three political formations are of different accents and nuances. Some have wanted to insist especially on these differences, we believe that there are these differences, but neither can I insist on it nor sneak into these differences in such a manifest way. They're supposed to be pacts, and like it's a presumption and a law of pact measures, which means there's disposals on everyone's side. They are not our assumptions or our laws of measures that we would want – in any case we would already make it to the hundred – but we congratulate ourselves, why? Because we believe that the pact and agreement in this sense is more about the common good, that it does not sit and settle in its own ideological positions. That said, say these two more general considerations, already allow me to enter a little more into what would be the detail of the different fiscal considerations that presuppose this law of measures and some others that may be there. The first is that the law of measures has to deal with a number of entries by the Generality, which must give response to a hundred_percent of the needs of the population, but that, in change, its capacity to recapitulate is not of the cent_per_cent, not of the cent_per_cent of which it recapitulates, but well limited and much more modest as much as the Generality can recapitulate in relation to the responses of the needs of the citizenry that it can give. So, is there a difference between what you receive and what you need to cover, and the difference you see? It has to come from other institutions, that in this case it is the Government of the State, that it is that recapitulates this important bulk of the wealth that is generated here. Therefore, we have a first actor that we cannot fail to forget that it is this government of the State, that will have to take responsibility. It seems to me that the vice president said that in the same way that we demand the transfer of the European Union by the State, we also ask and do not generate debt, that is, that this is not converted into debt. Therefore, this is the first consideration that we would like to highlight. The second, Mr Rodriguez also mentioned it. We agree – we agree –, we want to distribute rich, of course we want to distribute rich, but to distribute rich first you have to generate it. If you're scanning, scanning the wealth and spoils absolutely, I don't know what we'll distribute, but well, in any case, we need to set up policies that are truly rich creation. It seems to us that this morning Congressman Lucas heard it for a moment and said that we cannot weaken the country's product fabric. I am pleased that they say these things and that we are also concerned not only with distributing, but also with enhancing the country's product fabric, because this is important. But it's not just about the importance of the creation of wealth, but there's one thing – and in this sense it seems to me that it's important – that we generate a wealth, but we can't enjoy it or distribute it, because there's another instancy, that in this case it's the Government of the State, which is left with a part of that wealth and doesn't allow it to manage us. Therefore, it is not a problem of confrontation between sovereignism and... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's not a confrontational problem, it's just that, precisely, sovereignism, what it allows is to distribute a wealth that you've generated, that you've generated, for example, huh? – after we have already entered the deficit – but, for example, with the third additional provision of the Statute that is incomplete, with the financing of the Law of Dependency..., the issue of residences has been raised several times. One of the problems – one of the problems, one, I'm not saying it's not anymore – one of the problems is the issue of the Law of Dependency financing, huh? , which is thought of in one way, and financed in another way, and distributed very poorly of the other. This is all due from a wealth that could be distributed and not distributed. Third, the tax deficit. All in all, it seems to us that here too the Socialist Group, the deputy Alicia Romero, I also felt it, that there is under-financing – under-financing, etcetera. Well, this infra-financing in part – in part – goes for resources that we generate, in part goes for resources that we generate and that we cannot manage, because in the form of a fiscal deficit, of money that goes to the State and does not return, and there are no smaller amounts, the more strict, the more so..., 10,000_millions series, the more generous are 16,000_millions, we can make a cap with this amount of money. Someone also said that at this time, only at the sanitary level, we generated a drill of 1,800_million. It's 10 – between 10 and 16, huh? – the 1,000_million that go and don't come back. So, it's one of these problems. Celebrate – celebrate – in quarter place, the abbey of taxes to those who least enter. Surely this is a question of distributive policy, huh? It cannot be that those who enter less have some fiscal charges that penalize them as it is penalized in the case of Catalonia and, therefore, lower this tax base to which they enter less is one of the things that we congratulate ourselves on. Another of the tickets that could be there, the theme of successions. In this sense, we are pleased, from the Juntes for Catalonia, that the inheritance tax has been exempt in the case of the spouses, because there would be no more injustice than a peas on living, which, moreover, you have in the name of the two, you have to pay when the other person with whom you agree, that it is your peas, I mean, which is a heavy enough – enough, enough – big – and therefore we celebrate that you have been able to exempt it. On the other hand, it is difficult for us to have managed, in this case, that the tax on estates also boosted small businesses in their transmission of the trade. And less – and less, and let's hope that in this, at the level of modifications, we can intervene there – and less at a time like the present, in which the complexity of small and medium-sized enterprises, and of enterprises that are the majority of Catalan enterprises, must suffer a type of heaviness as an imposition of successions, which punishes them considerably. The new economy, if we are to talk about a new economy, is true that we are at a time of inflection. "Crisis, in fact, means this, it's a word that has its origin in the medical world, it's that moment when the disease touches the foundations and begins to recover, but you still can't say you're recovered, because you're still among the symptoms of the disease. So, "crisis we should think, want it to be like this, like a point on which up at the end and a certain recovery is already beginning. We don't think we're doing well at this time, but we're still at a time of collapse, of symptoms of collapse, but if there's a crisis, it's true that there's a recovery and it's going to point somewhere. To point out somewhere, that it is a place of some economy in our horizons, and a new way of thinking, an economy of the hand of digitization, also in this we feel favored, and in this law of measures is retrospect a green economy. It's very important that we continue to succeed in achieving an economy that I thought I would punish, or somehow penalize what pollutes, huh? , and that, in change, is plantagin alternatives that allow a respect to the natural much better. It's also hard for us, in this law of measures, to have failed..., but we have already said that it is a question of pact and it is a question of agreement of different groups, to have succeeded that those debts of the State – with the additional third, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera –, like those that we can account for, to be able to put them as an accounting part of what you can spend, because it is a debt that some third tea, and, in turn, we can't incorporate, at this point, but it would be one of the things..., huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It would be one of the things that would be good to account for, because even though it is a form of entrance, even though I count as a debt, in this sense, therefore, we would consider it to be. I, to end – to end – two things. They are presuppositions, they are laws of essential measures, we are very pleased that we can get them out of hand, that we do not have a pact, that we are sure that it is better because there is no definitive or absolute reason for it, and that, therefore, in the transfers, therefore, we are sure that it is agreed and there is where it benefits, but that there are some presuppositions and some laws of measures that we demand that they follow, we know that they will have to be modified to adapt to the circumstances and we are convinced that the Government of the Generality is at its best to the parliamentary groups that we support and the parliamentary groups that support these presuppositions are at its best, because these changes are less likely to be done with the greatest agreement, at the very least. And lastly, I think that getting to approve these assumptions, to approve these laws of measures, through a vote and a chamber like we have, in which the telematic vote also participates and opens at this time, is a good way to do it, and it is a good way to make memories and mark a sign, a sign of modernity of our institution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.256.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now we'll be five minutes away and we'll start voting. The record that will be two blocks of votes followed: first, assumptions; and then, I read of measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-04-24-5101.257.0	All right. Let's start voting. [[Project of the Law of Presuppositions of the Government of Catalonia for 2020 (continuation)]] [[200-00011/12]] In the first place, we will vote for the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2020. I'll explain to you how we're going to order them, even though the parliamentary groups have the conveniently prepared voting scripts. In any case, the announcement that, in the first place, we will vote for the compromises. Secondly, we would vote, and in a single vote, the particular votes of the text of the joint. Thirdly, we shall vote on the reserved items in the joint text. In fourth place, private votes and reserved expenditure statements. In five places, we will vote on the text of the bill's opinion. And finally, we'll vote on the state of spending. Let us therefore begin to vote on the compromise proposals. Let's start with the first transactional. The vote begins. This item was approved by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions; that is, unanimously. Let's now vote for number two. The vote begins. This item was also approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is to say, unanimously. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This item was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is to say, also unanimously. Let's now vote for number four. The vote begins. It was adopted by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. And now we're going to vote on number five. The vote begins. It has been approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is, unanimous. Let us now proceed to vote on the particular votes in the joint text. As you know, the particular votes are intended to return the original text presented and discarded the text of the opinion. Consequently, if a particular vote is adopted, that is to say, that the original text submitted has been revised, the separate votes which will ultimately be taken in accordance with the text of the opinion may mean that they will only refer to the part not affected by the approved private votes. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. So, let's vote on the first of the private votes, which make reference... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A single vote, of course. Let's start this vote. This particular vote was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Let's move on to the reserved elements of the articulated text. Let's start with package number 1, which starts with item number 6 and ends with item number 1258, this first block. [[Pause.]] Let us, therefore, proceed to vote, now, as we say, on the reserved items of the joint text. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting number two, package number two. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 69 against and 61 abstentions. Let's go now and vote for the 62nd item. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 82 against and 44 abstentions. We're voting now for the cluster number four. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting on the fifth package. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 44 votes to 65, with 25 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 7. The vote begins. It was rejected by vote in favour, 130 against and 4 abstentions. And we're voting now for the panel that goes from 34 to 1170. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This package of papers... have been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 122 against and 8 abstentions. And now we're voting on the eighth package, which goes from 27th to 128th. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The one that goes from Emena number 27 to 1228. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This package was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 65 against and 12 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 1225. The vote begins. In this case there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. We will then vote, and if this tie is produced, we will vote in the end to open a new period of telematic voting. Okay? [[Pause.]] So let's start voting for the next time. The vote begins. There's been a new draw. Therefore, we reserve it to see in the end, to vote on those issues in which it has produced ties. It's the Emena 1225. Let us now vote on the 8th and 24th exams. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 53 votes to 81, with no abstentions. Let's now vote for the papers starting at number 4 and ending at 1269. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 57 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting for item number 9. The vote begins. The item number 9_has been rejected by 36 votes in favour, 98 against and no abstentions. We are voting now for the group of items ranging from number 10 to 1246. The vote begins. This package has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. We're voting for the 1203 Emena now. The vote begins. The item 1203_was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 65 against and 44 abstentions. We are now voting on the package of items ranging from 38 to 1196. The vote begins. This package was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 105 against and 8 abstentions. And we are voting now on items 12, 18 and 304. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And now we vote on the papers from 53 to 1199. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 4 votes to 105, with 25 abstentions. And now we're going to vote for the 65th. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 94 against and 36 abstentions. Let's go now and vote for the 40th. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 4 votes to 86, with 44 abstentions. We're voting 1205 now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 33 votes to 101, with no abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 275. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. We're voting for Emena 276 now. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 29 votes to 69, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now for exams 1 and 3. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 21 votes to 69, with 44 abstentions. Let's now vote for the 277. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 105 against and no abstentions. Let's vote now on the number two puzzle. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. We now vote on the group of items incorporating the item 61, 278, 1039 and 1222. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. Therefore, effectively, they have been rejected. Let's move on to cluster number five. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 29 votes to 69, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote on the package of issues that incorporates 66, 1264 and 1265. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting on the issue number 32. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 105 against and 17 abstentions. And now we vote on number 46. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 86 against and 36 abstentions. Let's now vote on the package of items that go from 49 to 1211. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 57 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. And now we vote on the package of items that go from 58 to 1273. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 21 votes to 69, with 44 abstentions. We're voting for Emena number 17. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 40 votes to 65, with 29 abstentions. And now we vote on the package of items that goes from 155 and 1270. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 82, with 12 abstentions. And now we are voting 282 and 1038. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 69 against and 53 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena number 52. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 40 votes to 86, with 8 abstentions. We're voting 1207 now. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 36 votes to 69, with 29 abstentions. And now we vote on the package of issues that goes from 1069 to 1266. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 86, with 8 abstentions. And now let's vote 1179 and 1263. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. We're voting 435 now. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 101 against and 8 abstentions. And we are voting now for items 1234, 1235 and 1236. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 82, with 12 abstentions. We are now voting on the items from 1238 to 1254. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 44 votes to 82, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting for the 1262 Emena. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 44 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. [[Pause.]] Let us now proceed to vote on the private votes of the expenditure state. Yeah? We therefore change from a block of votes and start with the first, which goes from private votes number 1 to 24. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. These particular votes were rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And we are voting on private votes 18 and 23. The vote begins. These particular votes were rejected by vote in favour, 70 against and 64 abstentions. Let's now move to the reserved items of the expenditure state, starting with the first block, which goes from the items starting at number 23 to 656. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And we are voting now for items 7, 10, 16 and 389. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. We are voting now for the exams that go from 1 to 657. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 57 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. And we are voting now on the agenda from 12 to 628. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 86, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now for the exams that go from 25 to 653. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now from 53 to 674. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by vote in favour, 126 against and 8 abstentions. And now we vote on number 11. The vote begins. Number 11_has been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 122 votes against and 8 abstentions. We are voting now for items 8, 13 and 531. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. And now we vote at 527. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. We are now voting for items 6 and 9. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting for the item number 14. The vote begins. It was rejected by four votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting on item 15. The vote begins. The item number 15 was rejected by 4 votes in favour, 94 against and 36 abstentions. We now vote for number 63. In this debate there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. So, let's go back to voting for the emena. There's been a draw. So we'll get back to voting in the end, too. We're voting now for the 1000th Emena. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 86 against and 36 abstentions. We now vote on the exams ranging from the 18th to the 635th. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. And now we're voting for the 301 issue. The vote begins. In this debate there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. Go back to voting. Second vote. The vote begins. It reproduces the empate. Therefore, we will vote for it at the end again. Let's go now and vote for the 34th Emena. The vote begins. This was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 74 against and no abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 660. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 105 against and 8 abstentions. And we are now voting on items 419 and 486. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 21 votes to 65, with 48 abstentions. And we are now voting on the items from 52 to 508. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 4 votes to 86, with 44 abstentions. And now we're voting the 55th. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 36 votes to 69, with 29 abstentions. And now we're voting on the exams that go from 521 to 634. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 65, with 29 abstentions. And we are now voting on items 21 to 535. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 53 votes to 69, with 12 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena number 36. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 65 against and 57 abstentions. Let's now vote on the exams that go from 60 to 467. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. We now vote on the 533 and 534 items. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 53 votes to 65, with 16 abstentions. And we now vote on the reviews from 342 to 569. The vote begins. There was a tie in these papers: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. So let's go back to a second vote. The vote begins. In this second vote, 50 votes in favour, 70 against and 4 abstentions were rejected. We're voting now for the 451. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 40 votes to 90, with 4 abstentions. And now we are voting on items 81 and 530. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 44 votes to 65, with 25 abstentions. And now we're voting for Emena 336. The item 336_was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. And we're voting now at 108. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 17 votes in favour, 73 against and 44 abstentions. And we're voting now at 180. This item was rejected by 21 votes to 69, with 44 abstentions. And we're voting now at 118. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. [[Long break.]] All right. So let's go back to voting for the papers in which there was a tie. We'll take the third vote. In the first place, we vote, of the items reserved for the text articulated, the question 1225. Let's start the vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 1225. This item has been rejected by 28 votes in favour... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So let's go back to... repeat the vote. Listening well: the emena is 1225–1225–, which is reserved for the articulated text–1225. Go back to voting. There's been a new draw. Therefore, the emena declines; it is rejected. Let's now vote on the following item in which there was a tie in the vote, which is the reserved item in the 63rd expense state. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Voting 13, Mr. Cid, was 63. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Of the reserved items in the expenditure state, we vote on item number 63, which corresponds to the block, the vote, number 13. Yeah? Okay? [[Pause.]] Yeah? All of them? [[Pause.]] So let's vote. The vote begins. He was defeated; he won the yes: 69 votes in favour, 65 against, no abstentions. It is therefore approved. We now vote on number 301. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Block 16, column number 301– block 16. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. In this case, the emperor has reproduced himself. Therefore, the emena was rejected. Let us now move on to the next block of votes, which corresponds to the text of the opinion. [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] We shall vote separately on those articles in the text of the opinion which have been requested. At this point, the reminders that the final votes respect the opinion are always in reference to the part that has not been submissive to private statements and votes. Yeah? [[Pause.]] We shall begin by voting on Rule 16.5, the first vote. The vote begins. This article was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. We now vote on Rule 16.6, which corresponds to the second vote. The vote begins. This article was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And we are voting now on voting No 3, which corresponds to Rule 26.1.e. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. I now vote on Rule 26.3. The vote begins. This article was approved by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. We now vote on Rule 39.7. The vote begins. It was approved by 86 votes to 12, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote on 40.6. The vote begins. It was rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And we are voting now on vote No 7, which corresponds to Rule 45.1c. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to 4, with no abstentions. I now vote on Rule 48.1b. The vote begins. It was approved by 105 votes to 8, with 21 abstentions. And we now vote on Rule 48, except for the right letter from 'Barcelona and paragraph 1. The vote begins. It was approved by 109 votes to four, with 21 abstentions. We now vote on the third additional provision. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We are voting now on the twenty-and-a-half additional provision. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on the twenty-and-nine additional provision. The vote begins. The twenty-and-nine additional provision was adopted by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is, unanimously. And we are now voting on the thirty-year additional provision. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65. And we now vote on the thirty-first additional provision. The vote begins. It was adopted by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the text. The vote begins. The rest of the text was adopted by 65 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now for the state of spending. And, first of all, we vote on the modifications introduced by the Economic and Historical Commission that include high and low to the budget section of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families. Voting number one. The vote begins. It was adopted by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. And now we're voting on vote number two. The vote begins. It has also been unanimously approved; that is to say, 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we are voting now on vote No 3, which corresponds to the changes made by the committee that involve high and low levels of the budget section of the Department of Culture that come from the old 475. The vote begins. It was adopted by 105 votes to four, with 25 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 134 votes to none, with no abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting number six. The vote begins. It has also been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions; that is, unanimously. And now we're going to vote on number 8. The vote begins. This item was adopted by 105 votes to 25, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. This item was adopted by 113 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. And now we vote on number 10. The vote begins. Number 10_has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We are voting now on vote number 12, which corresponds to the modifications introduced by the committee that include high and low levels that refer to the Salvation Service of Catalonia. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And we are voting now on vote number 13, which corresponds to the rest of the spending state of the bill. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The remainder of the expenditure state of the draft law was approved by 65 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. [[Greetings. Long break.]] Well, we're still voting. [[Draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures to create tax on installations affecting the environment (continuation)]] [[200-00012/12]] In this case, those relating to the draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures and the creation of tax on installations affecting the environment. I'll also explain the voting order. First of all, we shall vote on the individual votes; secondly, we shall vote on the reserved items, and, first of all, on the reserved items 24 and 34, and, secondly, on the remaining reserved items; thirdly, we shall vote on the compromise items; fourthly, we shall vote on the items subsequent to the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees; fively, we shall vote on the technical and linguistic items, and, finally, we shall vote on the text of the opinion. We shall begin the vote on the individual votes. We vote first, which corresponds to private votes Nos. 1 and 2. The vote begins. They were rejected by vote in favour, 134 against and no abstention. And now we're voting private votes 3, 4 and 5. The vote begins. These particular votes were rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on the reserved items. As I said, we will vote first on the items reserved for separate correspondents at number 24 and 34, eh? So, let's vote first the second point of the item number 24, shall we? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 2nd, he forgave; the 2nd point of the Emena number 24. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. And now we vote on point 2.b, of Barcelona, of the item number 24. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.c of the item number 24. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now on the 2.d point of the item number 24. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now on the second point of the item number 24. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. Now we're voting on Emena number 24, the rest of Emena number 24, which we haven't voted on. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting on point 1 of item number 34. The vote begins. It was rejected by 48 votes to 86, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 4 of Emen number 34. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The quarter point of the Emena number 34. This item was approved by 69 votes in favour, 2 against and 72 abstentions. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Let's now vote on the rest of the 34th. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Vote – yes? – the rest of the Emena number 34. [[Pause.]] Okay. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the reserved items. And, in the first place, we voted for the 1359. The vote begins. It was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 105 against and 4 abstentions. We're voting now for the second package of papers. The vote begins. The second package was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 90 against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on the third package of issues. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 105, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting the fourth package now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And we vote now... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, all right. We're voting now for the 1360. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Five. Block 5, it was 1360. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. This item was rejected by 21 votes to 68, with 44 abstentions. Now we're voting for package number six... go, vote number six, which corresponds to item 56. The vote begins. It was rejected by 17 votes in favour, 109 against and 8 abstentions. And now we vote on the set of issues, ranging from 1261 to 1314. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 82 against and 48 abstentions. And now we vote on package 8, which goes from items 130 to 195. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 84 against and 14 abstentions. And now we vote on package 9, which are the items that go from 2nd to 1296. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 8 votes to 82, with 44 abstentions. And now we're voting the drawing vote, which corresponds to the 1361 coin. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 61 votes to 69, with 4 abstentions. And now we are voting on voting No 11, which are points 3, 5 and 10. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 105 against and 25 abstentions. And we vote in vote number 12, which is 57. The vote begins. It was rejected by 17 votes to 69, with 48 abstentions. We are voting now on vote No 13, which is the items from 132 to 1327. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 65, with 29 abstentions. And now we're voting for the 1362 Emena. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 44, with 17 abstentions. And we will now vote on the 58th and 59th exams. The vote begins. They were rejected by 17 votes in favour, 73 against and 44 abstentions. And we now vote on the reviews from 159 to 1338. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 90 against and 8 abstentions. And we are voting now for items 6, 13 and 21. The vote begins. They were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 105 against and 17 abstentions. And now we're voting 60, 100 and 126. The vote begins. They were rejected by 17 votes in favour, 69 against and 48 abstentions. We now vote on the exams that go from 134 to 1269. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 17 abstentions. And now we are voting on items 7 and 32. The vote begins. They were rejected by 29 votes in favour, 105 against and no abstentions. And we now vote on the reviews from 135 to 1287. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Block 21. They were rejected by 40 votes in favour, 93 against and no abstentions. And now we vote on Block 22, which is Exhibits 43 and 86. The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And now we vote on item 8, which corresponds to block 23. The vote begins. They were rejected by 8 votes in favour, 118 against and 8 abstentions. And now we vote on Block 24, which are the items that go from 9 to 29. The vote begins. They were rejected by 4 votes in favour, 122 against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on Block 25, which corresponds to Emena 1368. The vote begins. It was rejected by 8 votes to 86, with 40 abstentions. And now we vote on Block 26, which goes from Emena 42 to 1333. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 25 votes to 65, with 44 abstentions. And we now vote on the items from the 18th to the 1369th, which correspond to block 27. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. These items have been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 86 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting now for Block 28, with the number 11. The vote begins. It was rejected by 16 votes to 82, with 36 abstentions. And we now vote on number 29, which corresponds to items 66 and 74. The vote begins. They were rejected by 21 votes in favour, 105 against and 8 abstentions. And now we move on to Block 30, which are the items that go from 142 to 208. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. And we now vote on Block 31, from 1273 to 1315. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 65 against and 65 abstentions. And now we are voting on block 32, which goes from 69 to 1357. The vote begins. They were rejected by 21 votes in favour, 65 against and 48 abstentions. And now we are voting on Block 33, with reports ranging from 15 to 127. The vote begins. They were rejected by 21 votes in favour, 69 against and 44 abstentions. We are now voting for Block 34, with reports from 97 to 1329. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes in favour, 69 against and 8 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 35, with the 70s. The vote begins. It was rejected by 17 votes to 105, with 12 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 36, with the 1374. The vote begins. It was rejected by 25 votes to 69, with 40 abstentions. Now we're voting for block 37, with the exams going from 33 to 1375. The vote begins. They were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 69 against and 53 abstentions. We're voting for Block 38 now, with Emena number 17. The vote begins. It was rejected by four votes in favour, 118 against and 12 abstentions. We're voting for Block 39 now, with 45 and 73 papers. The vote begins. With this motion there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. Go ahead, then, and vote a few times. The vote begins. There's been a tie again. Therefore, we will vote for it at the end. Now we're voting for Block 40, with the exams going from 19th to 168th. The vote begins. They rejected each other by 57 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting on Block 41, the papers that start at 23 and end at 587. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 61 votes to 65, with 8 abstentions. And now we are voting on Block 42, with the reviews going from 77 to 189. The vote begins. They were rejected by 53 votes in favour, 69 against and 12 abstentions. And now we're voting on Block 43, with reviews going from 78 to 197. The vote begins. They were rejected by 53 votes in favour, 73 against and 8 abstentions. We are now voting for Block 44, with the items from 1283 to 1351. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 69 against and 61 abstentions. And now we're voting on 45, with the exams going from 25 to 1335. The vote begins. They were rejected by 44 votes in favour, 82 against and 8 abstentions. And we are now voting on Block 46 of the 1284 and 1304 reports. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 94 against and 36 abstentions. And now we're voting on Block 47, with reviews going from 80 to 125. The vote begins. They were rejected by 53 votes in favour, 69 against and 12 abstentions. And now we vote on Block 48, from 157 to 212. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 98 against and no abstentions. And we're voting now for Block 49, with reviews going from 164 to 1339. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 50, with Emena 87. The vote begins. It was rejected by 20 votes to 65, with 49 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 51, with the 89. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 101, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting on Block 52, with the papers going from 50 to 198. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. And now we are voting on Block 53, with the items ranging from 165 to 1242. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 65, with 29 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 54, with Emena 37. The vote begins. It was rejected by 4 votes to 86, with 44 abstentions. And now we're voting on Block 55, with reviews ranging from 166 to 200. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 73 against and 25 abstentions. And now we are voting on Block 56, with reviews ranging from 94 to 109. The vote begins. They were rejected by 29 votes to 69, with 36 abstentions. And now we are voting on Block 57, with the items going from 1299 to 1356. The vote begins. They were rejected by 21 votes in favour, 69 against and 44 abstentions. Let's now vote on block 58, with the exams going from 1300 to 1302. The vote begins. They were rejected by 8 votes in favour, 65 against and 61 abstentions. And now we're voting for block 59, with 44. The vote begins. It was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 101 against and 8 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 60, with the 177. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 86, with 8 abstentions. We're voting on 61 now, with the exams going from 178 to 183. The vote begins. These statements were rejected by 40 votes to 82, with 12 abstentions. And now we move on to Block 62, with the papers that start in 1310 and go until 1358. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 86 against and 44 abstentions. And we're going to vote for block 63, with item number 51. The vote begins. It was rejected by 4 votes to 69, with 61 abstentions. And now we're moving to block 64, 180 and 201. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes to 86, with 12 abstentions. And now we're voting for block 65, with items 181 and 199. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 69 against and 29 abstentions. And now we're voting block number 66, with 54. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting for block 67, with the item number 116. The vote begins. In this block there was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. We therefore proceed to vote again. The vote begins. He's keeping the impat. We shall vote again a third time at the end. We're voting for block 68 now, with 122. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 101, with 12 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 69, with the 204. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 94, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting on Block 70, with 404 and 1239. The vote begins. It was rejected by 44 votes to 65, with 25 abstentions. And now we're voting for the 1236. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 53 votes to 69, with 12 abstentions. We're voting for Block 72 now, with Emena 1238. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 82, with 12 abstentions. And now we're voting for Emena 1240, Block 73. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 65, with 33 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 74, with the 1241. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 82, with 16 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 75, with the 1366. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the compromise items. Vote, yeah? , the first block, with transactional emena 1. Put your vote on. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 40, with 21 abstentions. And we're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the discussions following the opinion of the Council for Statutory Guarantees. And we vote on the first draft. The vote begins. It was rejected by 17 votes in favour, 101 against and 16 abstentions. And we're voting number two now. The vote begins. There was a tie: 65 votes in favour, 65 against and 4 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 3... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We have to repeat the vote, as there has certainly been a tie. I'm going back to voting. The vote begins. He's keeping the impat. Therefore, we will vote in the end. We're voting now for Emena number three. The vote begins. There's also been a mistletoe again. So, let's do the second vote. The vote begins. There's been a tie again. So we'll get back to voting later. We now vote on item 1, block 4, presented by the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. And we vote on number two. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 57, with 12 abstentions. And now we are voting on item 1, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. I now vote on item 1, presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. He refused by 40 votes to 65, with 29 abstentions. And now we are voting for number 2, item 2, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, which is block number 8. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And we vote for bloc 9, with item number 3, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. It rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And now we vote on item 1, presented for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes to one, with four abstentions. And we are voting now on block 11, with item number 1, presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 65, with 29 abstentions. And we now vote on item 2, tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And now we are voting on block 13, which is item number 3, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And we are now voting on technical and linguistic issues. We jointly vote on legislative technical issues 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins. They were approved by 73 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. And now we vote on the text of the... We have to vote on the papers in which there was a tie – before voting on the opinion – which corresponded, first, first, to the 116, which was block 67. Sorry, no. First, block 39, report 45 and 73. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Let's get to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Is everything clear? [[Pause.]] Block 39, exams 45 i 73– yes? – from the first ballot box. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] From the reserved exams, huh? From the voting guide, page 10. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. So we vote for this block 39. The vote begins. He's producing a tie again. Therefore, do not approve the emena, it is rejected. And let's move, now, to 67, which corresponds to item 116 and which corresponds to page 15 of the guide. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. In the production of the impat again, the emena is rejected. I of the following points to the opinion of the Council of Guarantees Statutes is voted number 2. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. He's keeping the impat. Therefore, it is rejected. And jig number three. The vote begins. It's also kept the impat. Therefore, the emena is rejected. Let us now proceed to the vote on the text of the opinion. In the first place, we vote for the first block of articles from the 7th to the transitory provisions of the Vuitena. Yeah? The first block. [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The first block [[Funnel veils]] – page 20, text of the opinion, Member – has been approved by 90 votes in favour, 8 against and 36 abstentions. We're voting for the second block now – yes? – from Article 25(1) and (2) to Article 133(1), (3), (4) and (5). Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins – block number three, huh? It was approved by 73 votes to 25, with 36 abstentions. And we're voting now on 4. The vote begins. It was approved by 73 votes to 61, with no abstentions. And now we vote on Block 5, the articles that go from the 3rd to the ninth transitional provision. The vote begins. It was approved by 90 votes to 44, with no abstentions. We're voting now for block number six. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting block number seven. The vote begins. It was approved by 126 votes to 8, with no abstentions. And we are now voting on Block 8, which corresponds to Rule 87a. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on Block 10. The vote begins. It was approved by 113 votes to 21, with 21 abstentions. And we vote for block number 11. The vote begins. It was approved by 113 votes to 21, with 21 abstentions. And now we're voting for Block 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 73 votes to 8, with 53 abstentions. And now we're voting on block 13. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on 14. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes to 36, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on block number 15. The vote begins. Block 15 was approved by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we vote for block number 16. The vote begins. It was approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions. And we're voting now on 17. The vote begins. It was approved by 90 votes to 40, with 4 abstentions. And finally, we are voting on Block 18, which corresponds to the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. It was approved by 65 votes to 61, with 8 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Members of Parliament. There are no more points of the order of the day. And in any case, in the end, let me publicly gratify the work they do, which they have done especially today, all the servants of the chamber. They make us feel very proud. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] All right. So with this thank you to the workers and the workers of the house we finish the session. The session's up. Thank you.
