ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. I nail them to vagrant occupying their respectful scons. [[Pause.]] Thank you. Let's resume the session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting the order of the day, allow me to communicate that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately, the past 28 of generation died murdered to Sant Joan Despi the fourth victim for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] In addition, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the establishment of the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies for the collection of migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, since the beginning of the year 2020 there have been seventy-one people dead or missing in the Mediterranean. On the other hand, I am sure, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules, that the deputy Maria Assumption Laïlla, with a long-running low motion, has delegated her vote to the deputy Antoni Castellà, of the Republican Parliamentary Group. And that, for another group, Congresswoman Núria Picas, with a reason for surgical intervention, has also delegated his vote, in this case to the president of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, Mr Sergi Sabrià. I would also like to welcome the new Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alba Metge – welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia – and the new Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Ferran Mascarell – and also welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia, Member of Parliament. We're still on the order of the day. [[Procedure for the lodging of an action for unconstitutionality against Royal Decree No 14/2019 of 31 October 2019 approving urgent measures for reasons of public security in the field of digital administration, public procurement and telecommunications]] [[212-00001/12]] The first point to substance is the new point incorporated in this order of the day, which is the Procedure for the interposition of an unconstitutional appeal against the Royal Decree of October 31st, law 14/2019, for which urgent measures are adopted for reasons of public security in the field of digital administration, contracting of the public sector and telecommunications. This debate will be conducted in accordance with Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure. However, according to the Board of Spokespersons, the speaking time was agreed that it was five minutes for each parliamentary group and subgroup. As this proposal has been submitted for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republic, we will first proceed to a turn of intervention from these two groups to present the proposal. It has the word, therefore, in the first place and on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.2.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament... We have put forward this proposal before what is popularly known as the 'digital decree'. A digital decree that seeks nothing but to continue restricting digital freedoms in our country. Moreover, to restrict opportunities and skills at the technological level, of technological development of the different autonomy. In this case, the motivation is very clear, the same decree already explains it: steps must be taken to prevent the digital republic. It's obvious that before a situation like this, we can't keep our arms open. And so, since the first moment, the same government has already exposed, before unconstitutionality, therefore, the impossibility that this decree can be applied. In fact, this decree was approved in a council of ministers two weeks before the elections; of some elections that were November 10, 2019 and some elections where it was evident that the Socialist Party was seeking to mark profile, to mark profile against independence. Some elections where the Socialist Party wanted to present itself as the guarantor that what had happened to Catalonia would never happen again. And the way he found a pit, the way he found to show himself as the guarantor of unionism was precisely with this decree, on 14/2019. He got the support of PP and Ciutadans at the time when, taking advantage of the Permanent Congressional Congress of Deputies, he approved it. In this case, there was a abstention on the part of Podemos and, logically, the independent parties opposed us, together with other political forces such as GNP and also Compromised. This is an uplifting issue, and it's uplifting because they took advantage of a transition situation to finally approve this decree. Therefore, they will not go through the proper processing in the Congress of Deputies. And this, before a measure which, in any case, in the same decree is justified – in its presentation of motius – as an emergency and extraordinary measure..., therefore, they cannot be attached to Article 86.1 of the Spanish Constitution. They cannot be joined, because these measures are not justified in the same decree. In fact, it is not a decree that respects the very Statute of Catalonia, as also stated in the opinion of the Board of State Guarantees. It's a new threat, but it's a new threat not just for our country, not just for Catalonia, but it's a threat to all communities that want to develop skills at the technological level. In fact, so far, all these skills have developed without any type of problem – without any type of problem. Restricting or prohibiting the use of shared registry technology, blockchain or forcing the electronic DNI to follow the only way to sign digitally or digitally accredit are inadmissible restrictions. They are restrictions that we, with Parliament in... can neither tolerate nor allow. Therefore, before the sovereignty that we must exercise, at the parliamentary level; before the sovereignty that we must exercise, as the country, as the territories, what we must do is to present from this Parliament also this recourse for unconstitutionality. It is not justified by the fact that this measure is extraordinary, nor urgent. It is not justified that this measure is taken before the needs to protect digital rights. In fact, this measure, if we look at detention, runs counter to the main European directives which precisely seek to empower citizens in the protection of their own rights. And this is what has also been done, since the same government in Catalonia, empowering citizens with their own digital rights. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.4.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies, counselors, counselors. This first point refers to the interposition of an unconstitutionality appeal instituted for the Parliament of Catalonia. Deputy Albert referred to the political context in which this royal decree was pushed. And I'll make reference – I think it's close today – to the most legal issues. As referenced, it was approved in a council of ministers, it was approved for the Permanent Chamber. We discussed it here in Parliament in an inquiry, which we discussed and discussed the different parliamentary groups – here in Parliament. It is a law that affects the technological environment and its progress in Catalonia, but not only in Catalonia. It is a royal decree that has been criticized by many entities related to the technological field, for their violation of rights and fundamental freedoms, because it allows intercepting communications without court order. Therefore, it is a royal decree law, which does not only violate the Spanish Constitution, it also violates the Statute, and it also violates international law. For all this, the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia presented itself to the elections to defend the institutions of Catalonia, to defend the rights and freedoms and, therefore, we understand that it is of consistency to submit this unconstitutionality appeal. Because President Pedro Sánchez said that this decree was used to curb the digital republic and that it is the rights and freedoms, the progress, the innovation and the advent in Catalonia of a sector as important as the technological sector. From the most judicial point of view, we have requested the precept report to the Council of Statutory Guarantees, and the conclusion of the Council of Statutory Guarantees is clear, and it is that, of the new articles of the royal decree, eight are unconstitutional. So we understand that... For example, it says that this royal decree does not meet the regulatory quality requirements that should be observed by law that could produce interference in the exercise of public rights and freedoms. And here I want to remind you that in my first intervention I called for a legal analysis that was done by an ex..., a professor of Dret Administratiu, activist of the Socialist Party, who was very critical with the legislative technique and with the competent invasion of this decree. And besides, therefore, it establishes that its articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7, as well as the different transitional and additional provisions..., which do not contemplate, do not preserve article 86.1 of the Constitution, the requirements of extraordinary and urgent need. Therefore, we, as guarantors of the institutions, as guarantors of the rights and freedoms, as guarantors of the progress of this country, what we do is to interpose this recourse of unconstitutionality. And in this sense, therefore, politics is this, pact. And I think – and I think it's also worth saying – we are happy, we are happy, so we are happy, that both the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can adhere to this defense of the rights and freedoms and the institutions of Catalonia..., so that the Candidature of Popular Unity also adds to it. And in any case what I'm asking is where the Socialist Party is, which, if you say it also protects and guarantees the Statute of Autonomy, today we find it missing. Still doesn't make us weird anymore because it's gonna be normal in the last few years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.5.0	Then, to fix his position has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.6.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning to you all. We are faced with a new act of separatist victimism using, in this case, the institution of this Parliament, even legal loopholes to defend a political position. After months of announcing the creation of a digital republic, squandering resources in the creation of parallel digital identities, embezzlement of public resources from the CTTI, endangering our personal data, they are now surprised because the Government of Spain has intended to react with the issuance of this decree; a decree that we have already said is insufficient, that we gave it support by sense of state, but that we believe it is indeed an electoral decree; a decree that intended to act against the digital threats that threatened – worth redundancy – national security; a decree that – as I commented – did not mention the Administration of the Generalitat nor mentioned Catalonia, and you were alluded to. Indeed, they were alluded to because their digital republic project is a threat to the security of Catalans, and all their digital developments are also a threat to the Catalan pocket. The political strategy of separatism was clear – even you mentioned it –, you came here with a motion in which you, without any kind of report, already decided on the unconstitutionality of this decree. And what happens when independence has a strategy? Well, all the gear around it is activated. So, we saw as the syndic – who has to wake up this year I know because this year the final of the Champions is played further; then I think he must show himself more servile to separatism – calls for a press conference, the same day that a research by cohecho is initiated against him, not to give explanations, no, to say that he has acted ex officio issuing a report that coincides with the theories, precisely, that you bring here today. Occasionally, the report coincides with what you were defending politically. But it is that, moreover, we did not at any time see the syndic pronounce itself ex officio or talk about unconstitutionality during the year 2017, when the biggest blows to the Constitution took place in this Parliament. And you hold this report of the syndic as if it were law, and you bring it here to this Parliament. And they also wield the resolution of the Guarantee Board, that same body that you completely ignored, that warned them of all the illegalities that they were going to commit in 2017, because they are now politically interested. And, in a more show of how you legally intoxicate public debate, you speak of the unconstitutionality of the whole decree, when only some points that affect more in form than in substance the decree itself are spoken of. You even talk about permanent parliamentary approval, and the same report says that this does not pose any problems, which is a valid mechanism. You have become very legalistic today and come to court, but we see how you constantly disobey the resolutions of those very judicial institutions. But, look, said all this, dismantled your theory, dismantled your demagogy, we honestly want to congratulate you today because you embrace the Constitution, because you join democratic Spain and because you resort to judicial proceedings to pursue your rights and guarantees. Today we feel like the liberals of Cadiz when the absolutists followed that Constitution that they once defended, and we tell them we are happy to see how you play that on your way together – and I am the first – along the constitutional path. But know that today, based on their own expressions, they are judicializing politics. What happens, that when you believe that something is not fair, that some right is violated, you can go to the Constitutional Court, but the others don't, right? You can be quiet. We're not going to call them either fairies or oppressors. You have the freedom to resort to the instances you want, but apply the story when others use the same routes you bring here today. And, finally, beyond the decree of the resource, we believe that beyond these electoral decrees we must apply the Constitution in order to stop its digital coup. And we have said this repeatedly in this Parliament. Because this decree, as you have even mentioned, we have no confidence that it will apply. It is a decree of the Sánchez government in campaign, in the same campaign that said it was going to attract Puigdemont and then what we see is that it lowers the crime of sedition; in the same campaign that said it was going to ban illegal referendums and now we see how it deals consultations with Republican Left. We fear that, in this, too, Sanchez has deceived the Catalans. We will continue in front of his digital coup, we will be the guarantee of constitutionalism in Catalonia. And about the sense of vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.7.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.8.0	...understanding that what you do today is a use from this Parliament, because you as a government have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.9.0	Congressman, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.10.0	... authority to be able to present this resource – I finish, president – our vote will be against, because we understand that we do not steal their constitutional rights, but not be accomplices to their propaganda strategy either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.11.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Pol Gibert has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.12.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Today we repeat a debate that they had in advance, let's say, differently, with a young lady carrying Mrs. Geis, if I don't recall badly, on the subject of the digital decree, right? And then the apocalypse that this decree would represent was announced. Marxarian companies, the innovation in Catalonia would be over... that didn't happen. We have a few weeks of perspective, and this, all that's been announced, isn't happening today. Today we want to celebrate a fact that should be normal in this Parliament. We already know that normality in this Parliament is not its natural state. Here we are more than a few days of history, of days... of hard times. But today we start this whole with an exception. Today the groups that gave support to the Government bring a proposal to bring an appeal to the Constitutional Court. It is, if not, an appeal against a decree of the Government of the State that they consider to be competent or that does not meet some requirements. And it's worth it here to hang on for a while. Because filing an appeal against a decree is absolutely normal in a country with different levels of governance, with different emissions acting. It is almost inevitable that scoqui legislative production between conflicts between administrations. This happens to countries with Germany or with the United States and nothing happens. Today's novelty is the acceptance of the government and the parties that give it the support that the solution goes through to recognize the standards of the game and to make them serve not to disobey, not to accumulate requirements to the TC and take photos for Instagram. No, no, Accepting the autonomic mark, as they have done with the assumptions, and serving the procedures established when a decree or law does not please you is walking towards normality. And we celebrate. Perhaps the abhorred but necessary normality: to defend the Statue, the Council of State Guarantees, which once seemed a utopia to some, today is its main weapon. And I think it's worth putting it back in this debate. But going into the matter, last week we had the opportunity to listen to Councilman Puignero explaining the assumptions of his advice, and in his presentation he devoted a few minutes to explaining and highlighting the increase in the demands he had for cybersecurity and to avoiding the damage that could generate these threats. From this argument is derived the increase of the premise of the Catalan Cybersecurity Agency, in the line of equipping itself with resources to defend itself before these new threats. An increase in assumptions that is given to many bodies in charge of this fight from the world. The basic difference between the rest of the world and us is that here we have the wolf watching the sheep. Here we have a counselor who says publicly that while the republic is not physically possible, we will make it digital. A counselor who wants to protect the generality from cyberattacks, but also wants to protect it from opposition. A consultant who inflates the SITC's presupposition while refusing to audit its functioning. Still very transparent. You have doubts about a decree today, they are not the only ones, other governments have already asked to speak about the decree and how it can be improved. In fact, the pact with Podemos and PNV collected the compromise to review this decree. And you can make use of the bilateral commission, as the Basque government will, which has already announced; a negotiating body to address discrepancies between different governments, as did the recovery of extra payments, and which worked. If the government and the parties that support it have doubts today about the guarantees they give, this is the mark where they can raise the doubts that we have. Now, this decree, its foundation, is necessary, and I'm very afraid that you want it, the one that bothers them the most, is the foundation of regulation, which few question. An initiative that seeks to guarantee public security, especially in the processing of citizens' personal data, in the relations between different administrations. It is obvious that it is necessary to protect personal data in the digital and global world, the same advisor recognized it in committee. And not only between administrations, but also between citizens and public administrations, especially when these last ones can collect, process and store personal data for a public function and not for other questions, as in the case we have seen in Catalonia. All of us here are digital data, just like the thousands of citizens we represent, and I am convinced that none of us want these data to be arbitrarily used by a public administration. Moreover, as established by the European authorities, the decree establishes the obligation to relocate to Europe, within a period of six months, servers located outside the Union or named digital paradises, which contain sensitive information referring to the citizen, following the census, following the flag, following fiscal or health data. What you're looking for is to secure a safe space for sensitive data and possibly bother them. Not being able to have servers see where, without any kind of control, and in administrations that make them serve for their own interest. All in all, our group will abstain. We welcome the Government's channelling its demands for the intended lives and hope that the bilateral commission can address the better of the decree. That's right, we're still defending that a decree like this is more than necessary, especially in a country like ours.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word of Deputy David Cid. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.14.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Today we are discussing the need to submit an appeal to the Royal Decree of urgent measures in public security in the field of digital administration. From our parliamentary group, on various occasions we have stated that this digital decree – also known, as is the case before, the digital decree – forms part of a previous era, based on confrontation and not on a new stage of dialogue and solutions that this new decade needs, both in Catalonia and at the level of the State. In fact, it is a decree that violates rights and freedoms, not only in Catalonia, but in the conjunction of the State, as does the law bite. In fact, the agreement between Unidad Podemos and the PSOE also recedes the repeal of the law bites. We see that, despite this, disobedience or micro-disobedience does not come, in this case, to the law bites for what it does to the Government of Catalonia, which applies, and in a strong way, the law bites, for example, in this case, to PAH activists, this same week. [[Greetings.]] Basically, the decree that it does, and for which we wanted to reject it, is that it allows to cut communications, and in this case also the networks, without judicial control prescribed by public reason. We, in the validation of the decree at the level of the Congress, are going to abstain because basically we are going to give up, in this case, the compromise that is arranged through draft law and, therefore, would have to be able to modify in three fundamental aspects, which I will now refer to. We would also do well to ensure that the assembly of Catalan forces in Madrid uses the parliamentary process and also our ability to determine the majorities of the Congress to defend self-government and also the rights and freedoms of the assembly of citizens of the Spanish State. The main changes that we agreed on were: to reintroduce immediate judicial control into any administrative act that may affect rights and fundamental freedoms; the second, to avoid that it may be applied to assumptions when they affect, in this case, the violation of fundamental rights; and the third is to respect basically the decision-making capacity of the autonomous communities that have jurisdiction over them. We also want to refer to the conclusions of the Statutory Guarantee Board. And we celebrate that some make reference to it. And it would be good for all of us, from now on, to find a stage in which we have done what we have wanted – or have done what they have wanted – with the Council of State Guarantees and use it for which it serves, that is, to use the Council of State Guarantees in this case to determine these competing conflicts and, obviously, whether or not the texts adjust to the right, in this case, constitutional and statutory. We also understand, in this case, the conclusions of the Council of State Guarantees, which basically states that the decree does not meet the requirement of extraordinary and urgent..., therefore, or continue, the need does not justify in this case the requirement of extraordinary and urgent according to the same Spanish Constitution; secondly, that it violates Article 159 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia; the third, that it violates the principle of free movement of data provided for in European regulations, and the fourth, that it violates Article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution, which in particular finds that it can guarantee and complement regulatory quality in laws that may affect fundamental rights. Therefore, we understand that it is coherent, depending on our position, to give support to the appeal that is being made and, as an ugly reference, also to defend the self-government of Catalonia. I want to end up with a thought. I think it's good news that the independent parties understand two things. The first, to defend the self-government of Catalonia, because, in short, it seemed that the self-government of Catalonia was not for nothing and that, in any case, the Statute of Catalonia was paper mullat. We are pleased that, therefore, in this case, they tend to defend the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. And then, they do so through mechanisms that provide, in this case, for both the Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. It is to say, in short, that it is necessary to defend self-government and it is possible to do it well and legally. And I think that's very helpful to open this new stage of dialogue and resolve that we're claiming. What we also find to be missing is that this element of normality and that it also happened in other times – I want to remember that at the time of the Government of the Left in Catalonia it was a normality, in this case, to present resources before the State, despite the fact that the Government could be of the same political color –..., I would also like all those forces that claim and defend the self-government of Catalonia, also to do so with their facts and, therefore, also when a decree invades the competences of the Generality of Catalonia, therefore, in this case also the Socialist Party presented the appeal before the Government of the State. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.15.0	Thank you, Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.16.0	Good morning, all of you. One of the classic elements to be able to confirm that there is a repressive intensification of the states is when norms are adopted that do not intend to give a general answer, do not intend to give an answer in a general mark, but what they intend to do is to establish a concrete answer for a given situation; and that is what this royal decree means. And not because we say it, but for a band, because the president of the Spanish government said it, at that moment in office, during the electoral campaign, which he literally said: "to put an end to the independence of the digital republic; so he presented or made the announcement of this royal decree. But we also want to make another statement. It's not just about what someone can say in the campaign, but what the preamble or motivating statement of this royal decree says. Because he wanted to settle for some intervention that didn't refer to Catalonia. So look, we read the total content of what we're discussing here, and what the preamble says exactly is: "Recent and difficult events outside of the Spanish territory have filled in the need to change the existing legislative framework in order to cope with the situation. These facts call for an immediate response to prevent such successes from occurring, with the establishment of a preventable _framework for this purpose. We may not consider ourselves part of the Spanish State, but we understand that in this Parliament there are many political forces who do understand that we are part of the Spanish territory, and therefore that someone who explains to us whose part of the Spanish territory is referring to this preamble or this display of motius. We also want to say that what we are most concerned about is that, even though it is intended to justify the attack or go looking for the digital republic, what it means is basically to nullify phonenal rights. Because, beyond the generality of Catalonia, it is possible to have servers outside the Spanish State – like the rest of the administration, of course; we also need to remember – that what really wants to pursue is something else. If not, the proof is, from the date of this royal decree until now, what was the concrete action that the Spanish government has taken if there was so much danger in relation to the Catalan digital republic: cap. And he didn't do it because what he wanted to build, actually, is a reality of rock doctrine: to seek an enemy – in this case, the enemy was Catalan independence – to justify that there must be a breakdown of the fundamental rights, as has been done in so many moments of the history of the past years; a violation of the rights collected by the Spanish State; and that, moreover, attacks the rights of access to information and communications and freedom of expression. The royal decree expressly states that "the assumption for the general administration of the State of direct management or the intervention of networks and electronic communications services may be agreed upon, and then justifies it when affecting public order, public security and national security. When it is not able to weigh the violation or collision with other fundamental rights, it is always, absolutely always, in repressive laws, justified on the basis of public order and national security. And this can be done – and we want to highlight this issue – without a court order, without a prior hearing and simply with the initiator of an administrative sanction procedure. Please read the text of Article 6.5 of the Law Decree. When a state – and for us this is fundamental – limits fundamental rights without democratic guarantees, preventively and without weighing upon fundamental rights, before which we find ourselves is of an absolutely authoritative action. Years ago – and many and many of us will remember this – we authorized the posting of little at the door and an entry to the home without judicial authorization, and now we have the posting of little through the control of the networks. That's what this decree means. And on the concrete issue we are discussing today, whether or not we make constitutional appeals, look, we need to convey that we have had many doubts: whether we are holding on to forbearance or in favour of it. We are always in favour of delivering all the battles, as well as the legal battle, but we want to make two reflections. Anyhow, in the Constitutional Court there were lawyers, even good lawyers, and even guarantees of fundamental rights, beyond the claus back to what the status quo meant. Today we have the 155 with tugs and fists like the majority of the Constitutional Court. And, therefore, we have many doubts that there we find no positive response. And one second reflection: if someone, going to the Constitutional Court, raised it as a strategy or a tactic to go to other higher judicial institutions, we said that it was easier to expect a concrete action, to make a legal claim, to raise preliminary questions to go to the Court of Justice of the European Union in the discussion of, in fact, whether directives and regulations were being violated, and, on the basis of that, to build a more effective defence. I, lastly, it is possible that if there is this reality, too, of regulatory change in a future on the norm, the Constitutional Court [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] So that you don't work, you're aware that there's been a loss of objections...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.17.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.18.0	...and, therefore, as some and some of us already know much about how the Constitutional Court works, we do not expect. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.20.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... 1,600 _ milligrams of victimism and cynicism; this is the proposal that you bring here today. And I'll explain why. Because it is Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya who are now proposing to go to the Constitutional against a real decree issued by the Government of Sánchez, it is precisely this Government – this Government – that organized an illegal referendum on October 1, that used the collaboration of the CTTI, according to judicial documents, that used Catalan websites and data on those websites domiciled in digital paradises, which also happened to be used by the lords of the Tsunami Democràtic and that even the Consell of the Republic of Mr Puigdemont also used those pages, who now misses that real decree. It is precisely this Government, which has left millions of data on Catalans hanging in the cloud – DNI, homes... –, who now says that, go on, that this decree, therefore, will leave Catalans unprotected in terms of their digital rights. And it is precisely this Government that, with that history and with the context in which this royal decree was dictated, and also producing the riots on the streets organized by the lords of the Democratic Tsunami against a ruling issued by a democratic court – Supreme Court – which decides to announce, therefore, a new regulation that will be the basis of the Catalan digital republic. And they miss each other. I mean, you want to create a separate digital DNI, you want to place servers outside the European sphere, in digital paradises, as I said, you want to promote a blockchain, and you are surprised that the government reacts despite being in office. For, listen, the paradox is that precisely that government, which has now finally been invested thanks to Esquerra Republicana, is now asking for an appeal of unconstitutionality against this royal decree. Look, you've used two enabling budgets: one, an opinion from the Board of Statutory Guarantees – which, although we don't share it, we obviously respect – and then the syndic, right? , the syndic of Greuges, who has long since ceased to be the commissioner of defence of the people to become the perfect political commissioner of defense of the Government. And why do I say that? I say this because he simply acts ex officio, makes it rough and fast, as every time this government needs it, as he did also, because, with the report of 155, he did also with the report of 1-O, he did also with the judgment of the Supreme Court, he did also with the provisional prison of Junqueras and company, he did also when he dedicated himself to blaming all Spaniards for the evils of the waiting lists of Catalan healing... And, therefore, what do you want me to tell them? We are not going to follow in any way the criteria set by a political commissioner at his service, who is also being investigated for corruption and who has the expired mandate. And even though we have been today... we already had suspicions that Mrs. Calvo was using this royal decree for electoral purposes. In fact, I believe that several political groups have said this, and not necessarily those who support this royal decree. But today we have had the observation, because listening to the representative of the PSC agree with his abstention to resort to this royal decree that his own government issued seems to us to be the greatest demonstration that that was a simple pose, a kind of pre-election posture of the Sánchez government, which does not surprise us because it is based on what is sustained. And, therefore, are we going to change our sense of state, as the PSC and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party do, depending on who supports us in our government? No, no, State sense is not a thing that appears one day and disappears another according to partisan interests; it is maintained for the general interest. And we are not going to enable, justify or support this resource, because that would be the obvious proof that the sense of state is a matter of political opportunism. And for us it's a matter of conviction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. They know the Members and Members that we are going to take a single vote on the appeal: "Yes, it is in favour of bringing the appeal; "no, against. Let us then proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The unconstitutionality appeal was approved by 74 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. [[Ask the Government about actions to combat the digital decree of the Spanish Government]] [[310-00286/12]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. Since, as the parliamentary groups know, the very honourable president of the Generality will not be able to be present at the control session, we will proceed directly to the questions to the Government. The first question to answer for the Government is about actions to combat the digital decree of the Spanish Government, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Geli. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.22.0	Good morning, Counselor Puignero. We did not finish talking, but a few days ago we asked about the Royal Decree-Law on Digital Security, better known for everyone with the controversial name of "digital decree", and that the Government of Spain approved on a nocturnal basis the day of elections to the Spanish Courts, and also not fulfilling the request for an extraordinary and urgent need to agree with the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees. This action by the Government of Spain violates fundamental rights, which affect freedom of expression, communication and also freedom of information. Not only that, but it also puts our personal intimacy in danger, violates the right to information and leaves thousands of millions of personal data behind without the user being able to do anything at all. The connection between the PSOE, Ciutadans and PP allows to close websites, to set an example, without there being a court order, whenever this is considered by the government. And no one's freaking out about it, which is exactly what makes countries like Xina. Experts and associations in Internet users' rights have already been shown against them from the very first moment. By far the Spanish Government uses its propaganda instruments to try to convince us that we live in full democracy. And we could add that, effectively, we live in a democracy full of political censorship, with prisoners and exiled politicians, with economic censorship, with the fiscal deficit and with digital censorship with the decree. The State, with this decree, regains its powers related to the public order that reminds us of the Franco era; and no, ladies and gentlemen, do not exaggerate. Let's not exaggerate either if we say that we could call it the bite decree. For Juntes per Catalunya it is vitally important to put back into the sights that all citizens believe in the application of this decree. And that's why we want to insist and find out where this issue is. We want to know what will be the position of the council and what actions will last in the long run, from digital policies, to safeguard not only the rights of the independenceists, as some think, but the rights of all and all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, has the word Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.24.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. First of all, I would like to thank them for the vote and, from the presentation of this unconstitutionality appeal against this digital decree, I would like to announce that, in this sense too, the Government of Catalonia, yesterday, formalized the presentation of the unconstitutionality appeal that the Government approved some weeks ago, based on the report of the Board of Guarantees Statutes, where clearly all its articles are declared or fan of unconstitutionality. Miri, do you remember how this whole thing started? This is not in an electoral campaign, with an emergency decree, made of urgency by a functioning government, which seems absolutely irresponsible to us, and with a clear objective. It is said by the same President Sánchez in the press wheel before the presentation of this decree: "To put an end to the digital republic. This government didn't say, President Sánchez said. It turns out that, a digital republic that they say doesn't exist, they want to ban it. But now, since the first day, we have warned that this decree violates fundamental rights. We have also warned you to push European directives and also to prevent or invade the powers, in this case, of the Statute of Autonomy. And we don't say it; obviously, we say it, but we also say it, the Basque Government says it, the Basque Parliament says it, the Spanish entities say it, the State Guarantee Board says it, the Greuge Union says it, but you say it yourself. I now refer, for example, to the representative of the People's Party. His group, to the Permanent Chamber, the Member who defended the position of the People's Party, said in text that this decree was "indecent of unconstitutionality, but that they voted for the State. So, listen. Listen, we, our receipt against this decree, what is it? So a card of digital rights and rights. Against the decree, Digital Bill of Rights and Deures. That's what the boy government is about, and that's why we're going to push this initiative more hard, and so, listen, don't expect us to do it. Self-reporting, self-reporting, and repealing this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.25.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the accident balance of 2019]] [[310-00287/12]] The next question is about the accident balance of 2019 and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Aurora Madaula. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, security is one of the assets of well-being. Without security, it has not prospered. Every day, a lot of Catalonian workers spend a lot of time on the road, amassing hours of trajectories and fatigue. And it is for this reason that we must guarantee the safety of our citizens in these displacements. The left-handedness of our paths is one of the realities that worries us and that we need to reshape if we want to ensure the well-being. From the beginning of 2017 we have noticed that road accidents have increased. In concrete terms, the year 2016 ended with a balance of dead victims on the road of 231 victims, the number that was exceeded, the year 2017, for the 248 dead victims that there was, a 7.4_per_cent more. In 2018 the number of mortal victims was even higher, 256, a 7_per_cent higher than the previous year. The first quarter of the year 2018, the trend did not change, it was already especially negative and the mortality to the reels increased by 70_per_cent compared to the first quarter of the previous year, which forced the government to set aside a containment plan to deal with the situation. Despite the fact that in general terms the left-handedness has been reduced compared to 2010, the balance of victims is no less and is given in fact that it will not complete the target of reducing fatalities of the 50_per_cent that the European Union had marked for the period 2010-2020. However, this fact is unfortunately common to most European Union countries, for which the Commission has proposed a further reduction of 50_per_cent for the period 2020-2030. Republican-inspired policies must be effective and must ensure the safety of all citizens in all spheres. That is why I ask you, counselor, if you can explain to us, before all these circumstances that I have told you for the previous year, who was the evolution of mortality on the road in 2019 and where will concentrate the efforts to the Department of Interior, in the matter of left-handedness, in view of the year 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.28.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. MP, as you said, in the year 2018, in the first quarter, we had an increase of about 70_percent of mortality to the reels and, therefore, the containment plan was cleared. A containment plan that led us to that year 2018 the tank with a major deu_per_cent mortality, therefore, of 70 dropped to 10, which is insufficient at all. But in the year 2019, the containment plan was maintained with new strategies and it has been reduced, it has not increased, but it has reduced the deaths to long-distance lives by an 11_percent. So, it's good news, even though we still have 171 dead people, 171 dead victims to the Catalan roads. Here we arrive, basically, diverting the heavy vehicles of the N-340 and the 240 to the National-II, making a separation of senses to the C-55 and making exhaustive controls of speed, drugs, alcoholemia and distractions. The causes of this mortality of the year 2019 pass through the excess of speed and distractions, mostly, and also through a rush that we are finding in the consumption of alcohol and drugs in drivers accidentally. The most affected collections of this year 2019 would be talking about 38.6_percent of the fatal victims of the year 2019 being part of what the vulnerable collection is about. We'd be talking about motorcycles, cyclists and travellers. Therefore, there are concrete strategies for these vulnerable collections. It also means an increase of 43 per cent in deaths in the case of the 60-year-old majors, our great people. So, too, I call a strategy determined for them. And also positively value the reduction of 46.5_percent mortality in the thirty-five to forty-four years range. The objectives for this year 2020 are to reduce the presence of alcohol and drugs to the drivers, to lower the accident to the majors of sixty-five years, to strengthen the safety in motorists, to pursue the excess of speed, to pursue also the elements of use of the belt as passive security, which we find to be that there are drivers who do not use it; to lose... Well, to end with the National Pact that together with the Department of Territories we are moving forward, the National Pact for Safe and Sustainable Mobility and to pursue, obviously, the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.29.0	Counselor, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.30.0	Oh, the distractions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.31.0	The next question is about the effects of Brexit on the product texture. [[Ask the Government about the effects of Brexit on product texture]] [[310-00291/12]] And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Ferran Roquer. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.32.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Consellera Chacón, the 31st generation, last week, made the release of the Regne Unit of the European Union effective. Needless to say, it is one of the facts of the international economy that can most affect the Catalan economy in the fields of business, university, research or tourism. The Catalan economy is a strong internationalised economy, especially since 2008, when domestic demand fell. Catalan companies were looking for out-of-markets. Some data: since 2009, Catalan exports have grown by 72.8_per_cent; 2019_was the new year in which export records were struck; the United Kingdom is Catalonia's fifth trading partner and the 3,926_millions exported in 2018 to the United Kingdom account for 5.5_per_cent of total Catalan exports; automotive, food and drink are the main exports. In the field of tourism, the United Kingdom represents the eleven_per_cent of visitors and the new_per_cent of expenses. Also in the academic field, relations with the United Kingdom are strong: mobility programmes and research programmes and projects with European funding. More than three hundred _ fifty angled students are enrolled every year in Catalan universities and about four hundred come temporarily to study. More than seven hundred Catalan students are studying at angular universities. England is the main partner of Catalonia in collaboration with projects with European co-financing; six hundred and fifteen students, without going further, have been in the Horizon 2020 project. We do not know how the relations between the European Union and England will end, but meanwhile: what work has he done and is continuing to do his department in the follow-up of Brexit? How are Catalan companies helping to ensure that we do not suffer effects on the productive economy? Have you studied how Brexit can impact the decision making of British tourists? Or where is academic and research collaboration now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, has the word "Consellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", the lady Maria Àngels Chacón. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.34.0	Thank you, President. Member, so far beyond the different stages of the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union, we have been working from the Department through three channels, which is the Office of Action in London, the delegation of the Catalan Tourist Agency to the United Kingdom, the consulate of the United Kingdom and, after that, the Brexit window, which we opened last March. You said there are three levels. Certainly, this window has already had more than eight hundred queries. He said so. There are three levels in which Brexit can be affected, a Brexit without any agreement, and it is in the field of commercial relations, in the field of tourism and in the field of academic and research relations and collaborations. For what it does to commercial relations, effectively, more than 3,300 companies export to the United Kingdom and what it does, through this Brexit window, therefore, answer all the questions related to logistics, mobility, taxation, customs, etc. Therefore, we believe that we are helping these more than eight hundred consultations. If there was no trade agreement, an impact on the Catalan economy in the next five years could be about €2,000_million. Therefore, we dedicate a lot and a lot of effort to this Brexit window. For what it does to tourism, you commented: effectively, the United Kingdom is the second of the markets issued by tourists and what we obviously do is work questions related, for example, to what will happen with healthcare services, with fears such as roaming, with dreams, etc. We are monitoring more than 2,800 international operators, specifically for the United Kingdom, and while we are trying to minimize the capture of the contract – this year we do not foresee any significant reduction – we are trying to diversify what is the international market share for which it does to the tourism emitters. And in the field of research, it is true, these more than three hundred angled students enrolled annually here in Catalonia, there are some seven hundred who have international stays at the Regne Unit, but the most important, the most relevant is also to consider that this Horizon 2020 partnership that Catalonia has with the Regne Unit will disappear. For our European programmes we will have to look for alternatives. And that's where we're focusing research activity. Therefore, conscious, busy, concerned but mostly busy to give answers to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.35.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.36.0	...this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.37.0	Thank you very much. [[Asks the Government about the measures envisaged in the field of safety and occupational safety for the petrochemical complex of Tarragona]] [[310-00281/12]] The next question is about the measures envisaged in the matter of safety and health at work for the petrochemical complex of Tarragona, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republic, Mrs Raquel Sans. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.38.0	Thank you, President. To begin, send on behalf of the Republican Group a strong hug to the very honorable President. Good morning, Counselor. Óscar Atance Rovira, forty years old, see Constantí, Iqoxe worker. Óscar Saladié, fifty-two years old, responsible for Iqoxe plant. Sergio Millán, fifty-nine years old, saw Torreforta; he had no connection with the company and at the time of the explosion was within his home, three miles from the plant where the explosion occurred. They are the three fatal victims of the accident that occurred on the 14th after the explosion of a ethyl oxide tank at the chemical company Iqoxe. Remember that the accident also produced seven more injuries than different considerations. Our deepest condolences and call upon the families of mortal victims. This serious accident, which has cost the lives of three people and has put thousands of others at risk, is a situation that can be addressed from all the prisms, from the protocols of emergencies – because the sirens did not sound – going through industrial security until they reached the conditions of job security of the working people. We play a lot of games here and there from Camp Tarragona. Actually, as you've seen, we're playing it all. That is why all parliamentary groups have granted the creation of an indispensable study committee to address chemical safety, personal safety, work and, of course, environmental health. From the point of view of the administrations, another of the actions that will be prompted from the government, and in concrete terms from the Department of Work, is that it has already been announced that they will be presented as a popular accusation in this case to the open cause in the courts of Tarragona. The objective, we understand, is to determine whether the circumstances surrounding the accident violated the rights of the workers concerned. In parallel, we know that it is also continuing to advance by the constitution of the commission of safety and occupational safety of the petrochemical complex of Tarragona, also driven by the Department of Treball. Taking into account the import of the chemical industry to Camp Tarragona – it is the economically most important sector, which directly and indirectly occupies eleven_ thousand people–, we would like to know more about the planned steps from its department in the field of health and job security in the case of Iqoxe and also chemical companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question has the word the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.40.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, look, I want to start very clearly: no work is worth a human life. What happened to Tarragona Camp with the Iqoxe explosion is a drama. And, in this sense, explain very clearly that this department will go all the way to knowing who the causes of this accident have been, and also the most important: who are the responsibilities surrounding this accident that caused the death of two workers of the enterprise and of one who was not even a worker of the enterprise. The department is working in three lines. We've already set it up, explained it last week: we've been like the prosecution. Why? Because it is our responsibility to know whether, around the judicial investigation, it is considered that failure in the areas of labour rights, security and labour safety is the cause of these lost human lives. And there are people because we need to keep all the information and because it is our responsibility to know all the information and defend the application of labor rights, and especially in health and safety. According to the item, we opened a table..., the same week I went down to Tarragona, I met with the unions and with the petrochemical complex employer, and we opened a table of social dialogue, to review all measures in health and risk prevention. Already, from that moment on, we've made two finds, apart from what I did myself. We need to be able to agree on how we review all health and risk prevention systems. Third aspect: the Labour Inspectorate is in operation. And it's acting to know the causes; it's going to be a long and complex investigation. We have activated the specialists of the Labour Inspectorate in explosions. But, most importantly, a few inspections know what has happened can carry very heavy penalties and can carry criminal consequences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.41.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.42.0	The defense of the workers and the workers first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.43.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the complex reptes of certain sectors of the page]] [[310-00290/12]] On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, he asked the question about the complex reptes of certain sectors of the page by Mrs Montserrat Fornells. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.44.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. I would not want to start my intervention without transmitting the support of the Republic Group to those affected by the temporary Gloria. I take this opportunity to thank you, Counselor, for having been once more, during these days, on the coast of the territory, and especially with those affected areas, such as the Tordera area, Lower Ter and especially the people of the Ebre Delta. We know that your department will continue to be working to restore the effects of the primary sector, as well as the different policies aimed at protecting the Ebre Delta. Counselor Jordà, as you know, the sweet fruit sector has seen a complicated force situation that carries paint over the last few years and that can reverse. Yesterday, to the Committee on Agriculture, the Platform in Defense of Fruit Dolça, integrated by pages, entrepreneurs, trade unions and municipal representatives, came to explain the situation that the sector is experiencing and to make us arrive at the different demands that would be needed to address it. It is very worrying the liquidations under the cost prices that the producers of sweet fruit are receiving, twenty cents per kilo paid for, with a production cost of forty cents per kilo. Some of the requests are, for example, to guarantee fair prices for producers or to make campaigns of awareness of the promotion of sweet fruit, since, unfortunately, there is a decrease in the consumption of sweet fruit to Catalan lar..., as well as requests for help or fiscal measures. The fresh fruit sector is a strategic sector for the Catalan agri-food economy, and especially for the Lands of Lleida, and is one of the pillars of its internationalisation. Catalonia has about fifty thousand hectares of fruit plantations, 82 per cent to Lleida, and it is the area of the State that most produces, about 900,000 tonnes. In addition, Catalonia exports 80 % of the fruit to foreign markets. This is a problem that asks everyone, not just in the agricultural sector, but in our entire country, because it is key and important to hold people back from the territory and to stop the problem of depopulation that our pages and our pages can earn a decent living with the work they do. We know, she advises, that her department has done its dues and that they do not all depend on her department, but that it is more complex, it is a question that asks us all, everywhere. For all the talk, Counselor, from our group we would like to ask him: what actions did the government have to finish in relation to the crisis of the price of sweet fruit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question you have the word Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.46.0	I don't know if'msent..., yeah. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mrs Fornells. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. I fully subscribe and type in what you have shown us. In any case, let's say that, for what it does to sweet fruit, this department has already started a plan by the year 2017 that is known as the Action Plan of sweet fruit, with a sequence of actions. These actions are asking everyone. It is a plan that has obviously been done in conjunction with the same sector, and all the actions that depend on the department are girls, and there is something left to do in the sector, such as, basically, to improve its self-organisation, to make economic circumscriptions effective, which is a very important issue, or, for example, to publish standard extensions. But that said, the problem of sweet fruit is, as you know, a structural problem, it's a conjunctural problem, it's a problem that goes from far away. In fact, you go from the Russian vet, you also go because we carry a pair of very painful campaigns, and the solution will be slow and not easy. In fact, it will be complex and even more so if, in this case, the European Union does not take over the money market and acts in a legislative way to balance the possibilities of negotiation between producers. Plus, as you know, we're talking about the sweet fruit, which is the fruit of pinyol, which is the most perishable vegetable production and, more importantly, the most vulnerable, but still so are we, and we do all those imaginative and urgent actions, huh? And I'm also referring to the withdrawal plan that we were going to make the year pass with 10_million euros and that we were going to pay with good funds, but, still, we add to all those extraordinary ideas or measures that the mayors of the area also demand, because, in the fund, they have all our support. I personally will meet there on the 18th. You think that the mayors are, without a doubt, those who represent the territory and, ultimately, those who go for their future, is to say that we will obviously be at their side and look for those solutions that ultimately address equity in the whole value chain, because in the end, as you said, that's what matters, that pages and pages can make a good living. And he said that, a point for Gloria. We are pleased to have approved yesterday, the Government, these 11_million euros of the contingency fund in order to be able to give a first response, not only in these three areas that you pointed out, but throughout the country, basically with two types of help. One that goes directly to the governing communities, and another that goes directly to the producers, to return the productive capacity to the same pages. We're not after...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.47.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.48.0	...and we're applying it with the utmost diligence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.49.0	The next question is about the circumstances of the accident to the company Chemical Industries of Ethylene Oxide – Iqoxe – Tarragona and the actions of the Department of Interior. [[Ask the Government about the circumstances of the accident to the company Chemical Industries of Ethylene Oxide (Iqoxe) in Tarragona and the actions of the Department of Interior]] [[310-00289/12]] Formulate the question, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.50.0	Good morning, all of you. Good morning, Counselor. There has already been talk of the accident of the 14th generation of Iqoxe, an accident that ended with the death of two workers, of one day, with enormous material damage and multiple victims. From our point of view, this explosion manifested a difficult lack of coordination between the enterprise, the emergency services, the political leaders and the people, and we understand that this leads to possible errors in the application of protocols. Counselor, what happened? Did something fail? You, as head of public safety and emergency, what is the value that it makes of the contradictions that were donated at the time? Why didn't the sirens sound, and why is it now that people are confined and that they could be reassured? Where does the concept of "preventive confinement" come from?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.51.0	To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.52.0	Thank you, President. Before this question, the first thing I want to do is to regret, obviously, the three people who caused the death, the three victims, as well as the injuries that resulted from this exhibition. Secondly, tell him that we are in a judicial investigation and, therefore, a lot of the information that we can deal with right now, so he is now in the hands of a judicial investigation and, therefore, perhaps we cannot work it deeply. Thirdly, you know that we have put forward a commission that respects this here in Parliament and, therefore, all the information that we can work more deeply in this committee, and therefore I think it is good. Fourth, a thank you to all the professionals who worked there. The professionals of the security system and emergencies, follow Bombers, follow SEM, follow Mossos d'Esquadra, follow Civil Protection. So much in the case that we spent that week as we spent the following week: both before the accident of petrochemicals and Gloria. In fact, in the twenty-four hours of that explosion, these professionals, these people in the wake of the emergencies of this country, neutralized the emergence and, therefore, lowered it, controlled it, did not have the episode shut down, but they controlled the emergence, and this proved, therefore, that you spoke of discoordination, but that in a given moment the coordination made it effective that in the twenty-four hours the process was controlled. Then, too, announce to him, as you already know, that precisely what he went through there, so the president announced that we would make a follow-up table. It has affected several departments. Today the Department of Work has explained it, but also the Department of Enterprise, the Department of Territories and the Department of Interior we are working intensely there. And the third – and before I went to the question that I could do – tell him that in just one week we already had the proposals for measures to improve the whole system that, at a given time, was written and that went, at some given time, to fail – yes, it is true – especially because of the lack of information that we had, the lack of information that the emergence service had, in order to be able to act with greater certitude and with greater certainty.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.53.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.54.0	Thank you for your answer, but it did not materialize, and I would like to ask them: what do you mean by preventive confinement? What's with the concept? I'm not talking to him about the twenty-four hours or the week after. I'm telling you, the Emergence Teams didn't know for more than an hour whether the air that the people were breathing after the explosion was toxic or not. I'm telling you that his response generates even more insecurity for the people, that he saw a situation of violation and possible damage to his health; not only the workers of the companies, but also the emergencies workers, like all the people he saw there, who are very much. This accident can't be understood as a dramatic issue exclusively, as was proposed by the advisor of Treball, but we must understand that it is the consequence of a system that socializes the lost, socializes the pain and privatizes the benefits. As the mayor of Tarragona said at the time, he said: "Petrochemicals for the good and the bad. We do not want this model, and therefore any committee, any table, any space must have clear who are the urgent and immediate measures to be put on the table. And one of them is to put up with the impunity of the companies of this great petrochemical complex, the second largest in all of Europe. Longer-term questions than structure and also debate and resolve: what is the economic development model of Camp Tarragona before these situations? And we end up asking him again: What failed? It's obvious, public and noticing that some issue has failed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.56.0	We're also taking this opportunity to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.57.0	...time is running out. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.58.0	Thank you. As I have three questions of respect, I suppose I am going to answer the three questions, but from the outset I tell you that the department will propose to the territory to pull forward the unique security plan and chemical emergencies of Tarragona; get out of what we have now from Catalonia to singularize with Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.59.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the orphanage in the framework of social services]] [[310-00283/12]] The next question is about the orphanage in the framework of the social services, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Naomi of the Street. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.60.0	Counsel, since the adoption of the Children's Rights and Opportunities Act, the various governments of the Generalitat have made a restrictive interpretation of the law, and the sad reality is that they are staying with the orphan pensions of children under their guardianship. And unlike other autonomous communities, they are not returned when they turn eighteen. In the budgets you have just presented, you have budgeted as income your forecast to stay with 2,400,000_euros of orphan's pensions to allocate those to service expenses. And, I repeat, it is money that will not be returned to them later. Staying with the pensions of orphaned children is something that has affected the opposition during legislatures. I don't think I need to say why, because the fact is defined by itself. Are you going to rectify and return orphan pensions to those children when they stop being cared for by you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.61.0	To answer the question you have the word the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, the Lord El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.62.0	Thank you, President. There are 233 children and adolescents currently in Catalonia who have a certificate of guardianship, an orphan's benefit. A 25_per_cent are in foster care in the alien family, a 35_per_cent are in extended family and a 40_per_cent are in institutional care. We are aware of this anomaly in our system. We are aware that in 2015 the same Greuges Synod placed the need to be able to change this. We are working in a decree that allows us to change this situation, regulate what is the integration of orphan's pensions into the private property of the minor under guardianship, and also work well in what way as a property administrator and in what way, once loses custody, we return to this lesser accumulated property, except for some lives that may be for criminal or administrative elements that the minor has. From here we're on the way to the decree. It's a small amount, it's 233, but these 233 are guys and guys with names and surnames, of whom we want to solve this aspect, and we'll solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.63.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.64.0	Counselor, indeed, his Government's policies are an anomaly. It is EUR 2.4 million, only in 2020, that you will stay and that you will not return these minors when they are eighteen years old. If we throw away decades ago, there are many millions of euros that have been stolen from these children. And, look, staying with the pensions of orphaned children violates the dignity of these children, the principle of equality, the values of the Spanish Constitution which give legitimacy to the unimpedibility of human dignity. This bad practice involves those minors who have lost their parents and have no family members a co-op of a service that is free for all others. And it is also discriminatory, not only because it involves the co-payment of a free service, but also because the children who do have parents, live or not in Spain, do not receive any pension; the rest of the children are not charged the costs of their guardianship. And it is no longer a question of me addressing higher standards, such as the Spanish Constitution, but it is morally reprehensible. Is this how the Generalitat protects children? , staying with your orphan's pensions? Of course your government has us used to all kinds of scandals, but here they are crossing all boundaries. And, look, from Citizens I announce that today – today – we are going to register a law to prevent you from continuing to put your hand in the pensions of the orphaned minors you have under your guardianship, so that no government in the future can do that again and, of course, also so that you will be returned to the last cent of all those whose orphaned pensions have been looted during all these years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.65.0	Congresswoman, time's up... [[Greetings.]] Thank you. To answer again, you have the word to the counselor. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.66.0	What you don't have is you don't know how administration works. What you don't have is you don't know that we are making a change or, if not, the Court of Auditors will hold you responsible for functioning from a law that is DOIA Law, which marks in its scope that this is to be done; that is why we will amend it by decree. What you don't have to rule is that when you're ruled, there's no difference... Because I also remind you: we have an anomaly, and so much; the Catalan system and the Basque system are the only two protection systems for minors who think of when they are divided years, who have help to post-tutelates, who do not leave children and children abandoned. And you haven't made any changes as far as they're concerned because parents and mothers don't leave children and children when they've been living together for years, and the Administration doesn't. Only Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.67.0	His time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.68.0	...and the Basque Country. Think about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.69.0	Thank you. [[Ask the government about the fact that the petrochemical complex in Tarragona was set up.]] [[310-00284/12]] The next question is about the events that took place in the petrochemical complex of Tarragona, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.70.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I want to begin expressing the condol and the scalp to the families of the mortal victims of the Iqoxe reactor explosion by the late 14th of January; rest in peace. I also want to have a record for the wounded, one of whom is extremely cremated and very hard; we hope and wish that he is recovered as soon as possible and that he can return with his family, which we also wish for the rest of the wounded. Finally, I want to express my solidarity, that of my parliamentary group and, of course, that of all the members of this Parliament with all the victims, and also with the lives of the Canon, Tarragona and Vila-seca, whether they have been directly affected by the consequences of this explosion as well as not. Tarragona, especially the barrels of Bonavista, Campclar and Torreforta, as do the Canonja, Vila-seca, the Morell, the People of Mafumet and good part of the metropolitan area, look straight at the petrochemical polygons. And you know that there are many citizens who, especially after accidents as heavy as this, look at them. It is always concerned about the quality of the air, but it is very concerned about the chemical risk of accidents such as that of the 14th generation. Because we are talking about one of the main sources of wealth, yes, but also about an industry that is not alien to risk and that needs good practices and security measures, I would say extraordinary, compared to other low-risk industries. The citizens of the metropolitan area of Tarragona are alarmed, they are very concerned. Tarragons are asking for security and we want answers. Security is the responsibility of the government and the same industry. The answers must be given by the Generality, the Government and this Parliament. It has been said that Parliament will soon create a specific committee, but the government has to explain the causes of the explosion, if they took place in time and formed the inspection tasks, so that the sirens did not sound when enough after the explosion was ordered the confinement, the possible dysfunctions of the External Emergence Plate of the chemical sector of Catalonia, the future of Iqoxe and of the industrial workplaces. But you also have to listen and support all victims and those affected by the severe consequences of the explosion. It's urgent and necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.71.0	Congressman... [[Greetings.]] Thank you. To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.72.0	Thank you, President. I don't think I'm going to have another session again in which you're so in agreement with you, am I? We may find that we disagree, but this summary he has made is what the government is doing and what it will do in the next few weeks. In fact, the fact that I myself should be in Tarragona is that the enlargement of the days of this plenary, of the celebration of this plenary, prevents me from being in Tarragona this afternoon and, therefore, we will have to delay it to the following week, if it is true that we have not been able to go as fast as we would have liked, basically because the Department of Interior has faced a new emergence the following week or at the end of a few days from which it passed to Tarragona; so let us say that we have not been so agile at the time of contact with the territory. Yes, it is true that the Vice-Advisor of the Presidency has been in constant contact with them since the President asked for this cross-cutting table; the Counselor of Welfare has explained it, there has been – the Counselor of Treball – the Counselor of Territori has also been, the Counselor of Enterprise has also been, and I am expected to be the proper hours or the proper days. With regard to one of the questions asked by the Parliamentary Group of the CUP, right? "What failed? I said to the principle: the lack of information failed, we don't have the information about what was going on there. Why? For a series of malfunctions at the time to communicate on the part of the company what had happened and what was at that time, therefore, consuming or what was cremating, right? So, from here on out, so we have to take action so this doesn't happen again. One of the measures that we will certainly propose – no, what we will propose – will be to detect, for example, the automatic detection by sensors of this quality of the area, and that we do not have to send personnel, professionals, public workers to the focus of the origin to know what is happening at that time, right? Therefore, there are elements in which we will try to advance. But the most objective we had from the first moment was to collect the information, to know what was going on there. Because once you have this information, you can work with the confirmation that the steps you are taking are the right ones. One of the questions I was asking, "What does pre-emptive confinement mean? ...Well, before an element... that you don't know how oxygen is there, you're making a preventive confinement. When it's activated, until the alarms are ringing, it's a while past, that this time it's the time for the bombers to tell us that there's been no danger in the air. So, it's deactivated to touch the sirens. And that's what happens to us over those minutes, that time and those hours. All the way, we'll talk about it in the committee...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.73.0	Counselor, thank you. [[Ask the Government about measures to protect the Ebre Delta]] [[310-00292/12]] The next question is about the measures to protect the Ebre Delta, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera, Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.74.0	It's not the first time we've said this government rules late and poorly, and in the matter of climate emergency I'm no exception. Temporal Gloria has posed two central problems in this government: the historical abandonment of the lands of the Jews and the abandonment during a decade of policies of mitigation and adaptation to the climate change. 2005 saw the creation of the Commission for the Sustainability of the Lands of the Ebre, attended by the Generality, the Government of the State, the local councils and joints of the territory and the scientific community, the ecological entities and the economic actors. Fifteen years ago, a plural commission where there were all the actors with only one objective: to avoid the ecological degradation of the Ebro Delta, to avoid precisely arriving where we are today. This commission has been abandoned for the government for years, against scientific evidence, against those who called for government involvement to preserve the Delta, against the need to build a brave agenda against climate change. I will ask you two simple questions: how do you value your government's action in protecting the Ebre Delta? , and if it seems irresponsible to him to have abandoned this committee for sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.75.0	To answer the question you have the word to the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.76.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members... Mr. MP, the truth is that his intervention is hard for us, because he was expecting another type of reflection, because you are talking to me about a committee of sustainability that actually exists, but that precisely was the territory that he demanded that we could leave the band so that we could define them themselves, from an integrated consensus table for the seven municipalities of the Delta: Deltabre, Sant Jaume d'Enveja, the Ampolla, Camarles, the Village, Amposta and Ràpita, and the two communities of regents, which prepare a whole set of actions that help to better deal with the Delta. And also because in its obvious intervention one thing is of the essence, that is that the great part of responsibility for the action to the Delta is the responsibility of the Government of the State through the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation and through the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, both for which it refers to the adaptation of the coast as for which it refers to the management of the river water, both of the complete ecological as of the treatment of the sediments retained today to the embassements of Flix, Riba-roja and Mequinensa, systematically incomplete European directives. The Government of the State systematically fails to complete European water management directives and what the Delta Consensus Table proposes, which are these measures, at its number 1 point, puts precisely all that is the management of river sediments. Therefore, I would ask you, more than the government is doing, which does, and very much does, help us, you who are now the Government of the State, to the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Hydrographic Confederation of the Ebro complement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.77.0	To ask again, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.78.0	I remind you that the territory through the District Council of Lower Ebre has asked you to react to this commission, because the Delta problem is not only a problem of civil engineering or of Regents, it is also an ecological problem. It will not be solved only by public works, but by assuming the ecological dimension of the problem. It's time to rethink the tiny cabdals, the transfer of Tarragona and the arrival of sediments to the Delta. We demand that self-criticism, yes, but also that you build a compromise in the future and the involvement of all administrations, as well as the Government of the State, that we also demand it. There are urgent measures to be taken, but above all I must stop setting up climate peaks to promote and boost courageous policies. We've lost a decade. What we are asking you today is that while they are government, they assume the responsibility of not wasting more time in the country and assuming that they need to lead courageous policies to preserve the Delta and fight against climate change. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.79.0	To answer again, you have the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.80.0	Thank you very much. We are government and while this legislature lasts we will act. We will act on that which has consented, technical consensus, starting, I insist, from the consensus table. For example, with actions around guard roads, bombing stations or sectorization; things that ask us from the territory, from the consensus table. And we will also act with demand, with demand from the State. We were not pleased, for example, that the president of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation passed down to the consensus table while diverdres passed approved in document, which is a « provisional outline of important issues..., is a curious nomenclature, but, in short, it is a new phase of hydrological planning, which in its file number 9 denies the regression of the Delta and hinders very much the proper management of ecological cabals and sediments. We were pleased that the president of the Hydrographic Confederation said when she was sitting there: "We approved this and you have to do some research.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.81.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.82.0	Help us make statements, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.83.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the pre-explosion response to the installations of the company Chemical Industries of Ethylene Oxide (Iqoxe) of the 14th generation of 2020]] [[310-00280/12]] The next question is about the response given before the explosion of the installations of the company Iqoxe, of the 14 generation of 2020, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, the deputy Mr Carles Castillo. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.84.0	Good morning, everybody. On the accident of the 14th to Iqoxe company, in Tarragona, we have the major petrochemical complex of southern Europe, regret the three dead and wounded and send the scalp and support to their families and friends. To thank his work, to all the people of the emergency services. And this time, especially at the communication media, in general, but above all to congratulate the local radio and television media, which covered the information with an extraordinary human work and against wind and tide of the same Department of Interior, as the Collège de Journalistes de Catalunya carried out, which complained of having been second in the reception of the information, obtaining the relevant paper that these local communication media do in case of emergence. I must tell you very clearly, counselor, that the management of communication and emergence in the moments following the explosion did not rise. We will try to know what exactly happened; there have already been various problems of job types and possible responsibilities on the part of the company. We have to go to the end on this line, but it does not have to be used to park important questions. None, and above all the windows and windows that have their houses to play petrochemicals, that they directly noticed the expansive and the sound, and that they see after the explosion a flaming of colors, understand that the sirens enabled for cases of emergence and risk, that many times they have proved themselves in simulations, that they intend to be pedagogy all the way – to the schools, through the triptychs of the local councils – that they signify and must involve confinement..., no one understands that they do not function alerting to a possible risk. It's very simple, counselor. Sound the sirens: confinement. Contained, sirens sound. And the people understood it. That's why they didn't understand anything at all the other day. It was said by social networks that it is pre-contained. "We had no information," the counselor said. When you don't have all the data, wait? Error, hard mistake counselor. Act. Even put in the worst: send the cavalry and you'll get it down. If there are doubts, while there is the least risk of dangerous substances: confinement. And, therefore, counselor, alert with sirens. Without entering the machine gun that went off over the edge or the absolute lack of protection, chewing or small candy for the Mossos or for the ambulance workers and, even more, that the thing could have been a lot, a lot, a lot harder. Answer – very concrete question, counselor, and do not hide in other stories, that the responsible one was you – : why did not the sirens activate? Because this created even more alarm and feeling of abandonment. What if they had to activate them, counselor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.85.0	To answer the word, the Inner Counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.86.0	Thank you, President. There was no way for – I explained it. Maybe you think I am, that I have a red button on my back, that when the press sounds the sirens. The advisor does not press the sirens or decide. This is part of professional criteria that make the decision, and from there they become active or not. But it's not that the counselor has a button there, red, that plays and then sounds. No, man, don't fuck! Don't fuck, man. [[Widow's remorse.]] That there should be a debate about the use of sirens, yes, totally agree. And it's one of the proposals we're carrying for Tarragona. We have to have a debate, because in the same way that it was decided that in the plan it was used in a conservative way, perhaps the strategy has to be changed. But this will not be decided by the councillor, this the councillor wants to talk to the territory; he wants to talk to the mayors, he wants to talk to the associations of the past, he wants to talk to the workers of the enterprises, he wants to talk to the same companies. And we want to have a debate process, how to activate and when and why. We want to do it. Why? Because as written, sirens were not to be activated. From here, we have a debate and the territory has to say its own. And that's why the first we do – the first we do – will be to return to the Plaseqta, to the unique plate of Tarragona, not to the unique plate of Catalonia, but to the unique plate of Tarragona. That someone decided to take 'l'– someone decided to take 'l'. Someone. Not us. We will return to the unique plan of Tarragona. Why? So why Tarragona's petrochemistry has a singularity, a specificity that must be worked with it, both in the past and in the case of emergencies, both in the management of human resources, and in the management of enterprises as well as in the management of emergencies. Therefore, we will return to the singularity of Tarragona. The people of Tarragona must have more information. Mayors must have more up-to-date and timely information, because they are also civil protection authorities, and they can also press the siren button or not, they can decide, because they are also competent in this. But they must have all this information, they, the companies, the workers, the associations of the city... All this we will bring in in the proposals we bring to Tarragona – all this we carry. We also carry these preventative detectors, which we want to install, or which we want to install there. Therefore, there is a series of measures that we will propose that is set aside, six measures concretely, in the future: the notice, the Cell Broadcast also. The Spanish State is waiting for 2022 to force Europe to launch an emergence service. Well, let's not wait any longer, let's act now, let the government of the Spanish state do the rules now. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.87.0	Thank you, Counselor. After the control session, and before passing to the next point, I propose the alteration of the order of the day. Given that we have advanced the schedule of the plenary, and according to the request made for the government, I propose, we say, that the inquiry to the government on the protection of minors to the schools, which was scheduled as 14th of the order of the day, can be substantiated today just before the middle break, therefore, from here to a station. It was an inquiry that was scheduled for tomorrow. Both the questioner and the counselor agree to make this advance, and therefore I propose to the Plenary that this alteration of the order of the day may be approved by consent. Is that it? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Okay. [[Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the consequences of the temporary Gloria]] [[401-00025/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the reading of the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the consequences of temporary Gloria. To make the reading of this statement, I pass the word to the second secretary, Mr. David Pérez, who will make the reading of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.88.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the consequences of the temporary Gloria. The Parliament of Catalonia, in front of the recent helpers of the temporal Gloria, who have affected a good part of Catalonia, from Empordà to the Lands of the Ebre passing all over the coast and land endin, expresses its condolences to the relatives of the victims and its solidarity with the people, with the assemblies and other institutions of the territory affected and damaged by these helpers. The Catalonian Parliament recognises the professionalism of all public servants and of all those who, individually or together, have worked together and continue to work in the normalization recovery tasks. The Catalonian Parliament expresses its commitment to the recovery of the territory and to the fulfilment of the actions necessary to mitigate the immediate effects of these aided actions on the lives of people, natural and property assets and the fabric of production, and also in the adoption of effective and urgent measures against climate change. Palau del Parlament, February 5, 2020. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.89.0	Thank you, secretaries. [[Proposed law amending Law 14/2017, guaranteed income of citizens]] [[202-00063/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the proposal for processing, directly and in one-on-one reading before the plenary, on the proposed law amending Law 14/2017, on guaranteed income for citizens. In accordance with Article 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Union Candidate - Crida Constituent called for the processing of a single reading before the plenary of the legislative initiative. According to the criteria laid down for the Bureau, a first debate and vote are required because the Plenary agrees, if they are to be heard, the processing of the bill's proposal for the single reading procedure. The debate must revolve around the enabling assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure and of the general value of the text, opportunity, principles and criteria that inform the proposal, following the rules of the debate to the totality. In this first debate, and in agreement with the Board of Spokesmen, parliamentary groups and sub-groups will have a five-minute turn each. First of all, the four proposed parliamentary groups, the first of which, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, have the word. It has the word, in its name, the deputy Mrs Naomi of the Street. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.90.0	Good morning, everyone. Today we bring to debate a proposal to amend the law which complied with article 24.3 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which states that persons or families who are in a situation of poverty have the right to access a guaranteed income of citizenship that guarantees them the minimums for a dignified life. Until it was passed in 2017, the law that made this right a reality, in Catalonia we had had other benefits aimed at this group, but none with the scope and rights that this law intended. Their approval was a ray of hope for those citizens who were going through the worst, and from Citizens we bet on this law, because we understood that it was the last safety net for people who have no income and that it also put in their hands the necessary tools to reinsert themselves socially and work. Moreover, it was not only a social advance, but also an administrative one, because it introduced positive administrative silence, which meant that citizens were not going to be trapped in the eternal wait, because if the Administration did not respond within a certain time, the benefit was automatically accepted. More than two years after its adoption, what we find is that the Government has not presented the regulation of the law – first they blamed 155, but, of course, that in 2020 no longer hangs – neither does it comply with the positive administrative silence, interprets the law restrictively and denies the provision unjustifiably. Article 7 of the Act states that those who do not have income or income equal to or greater than the sufficiency income index of Catalonia may have access to the benefit. The government's misinterpretation of this article implies that the benefit is being denied to families without any income who have received a small financial aid from a family member at a given time, for example, to fill the refrigerator, to pay for the house or to buy diapers. As rapporteur of the law that I was, I affirm that this interpretation made by the Government does not conform to the law that we agreed among all groups, and, given the lack of self-criticism and sensitivity of the Government, a government unable to recognize and assume that the management of this benefit is not the right one and is being applied restrictively, my parliamentary group has signed, together with three other groups, this proposed law which seeks to clarify this article so that the Government cannot interpret it in a restrictive way, leaving out persons who do meet the requirements for receiving the benefit. On the other hand, the Government's refusal to generalize the benefit with part-time income causes the following to occur. The law states that the situation of insufficient income and resources must be given for at least six months immediately prior to the submission of the application and should continue to be given as long as the benefit is processed. This implies that if a citizen is called to do, for example, an extra job one weekend at a restaurant or a small job within those six months, then he loses the right to the benefit, which can only lead to two things: one, that the person takes the job, because it can help him in the future to call him back to work, but this will lead him to lose the right to the benefit; or, the second, that access to that job is discouraged for fear of losing the benefit. From Citizens, we believe that the generalization of guaranteed income with income from work would solve much of this problem. But, as you know, it is a law that we present four very different parliamentary groups, but that we have something in common, and that is that we want this benefit to be a useful tool for citizens. And for that we have come to a consensus measure of reducing those six months of famine to two. Thus, a person who has been able to work for a few hours in August will not be penalized if he requests the benefit in October. The opposition must control the government and criticize what does not do well, but my way of understanding politics... I believe that the right way to do the opposition is to provide solutions and not just stay in the criticism, because this is the easiest but perhaps not the most effective. And today what we bring are real solutions to real problems. And I believe that my job or debt is to denounce the government's inaction and mismanagement of this benefit. But my debt is also with those citizens who are currently having a hard time, and it includes helping those citizens who expect us to provide solutions to avoid inequality. And it's a debt to that one of four Catalan children who are currently living below the poverty line. And that is why I ask the groups that support the Government to vote in favour of this law, and among all of us, let us ensure that a family is not excluded from receiving this benefit because a family member has given them a few euros to buy diapers or obtained work for a few hours. And I think it'll be good news that we can all get it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congressman Raúl Moreno, the PSC Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.92.0	Thank you, President. Ladies, ladies and gentlemen, councillors, councillors, this is the second change in the guaranteed income of citizens we make by the way of the single reading. On the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, October 2018, we made a modification that allowed people without reading or victims of male violence and all those who are in a permanent social-type residential appeal to access guaranteed citizenship income. The generation of 2020 we have made..., and now, the February of 2020, in fact another modification, of the law, the one we bring today to debate, with three fundamental objectives: first, that the people who demand guaranteed income pass from believing that they have not had enough tickets during the previous six-months to request the benefit at only two months; the proportion of the benefits they are making in a paid _ sun, but that you are thinking to be effective for a whole year, and that it is not denied the benefit to those people who receive a punctual economic help from first or second-degree family members to pay, for example, the logger or the consumptions. The text put into the debate, in fact, will be, as I say, a little different from the proposal that we will finally vote on. We wanted to work because this change is done with as much consent as possible. To do this, we have had two meetings with the entities forming the Government Commission for the Guaranteed Income of Citizenship and also with the Commission for the Promotion. We were pleased to have a third meeting with the governing committee, but the insistence of the groups submitting this proposal was still impossible. I'll quickly go in and defend the three points of the modification. About months to credit tickets: from six to two_months. At these times, between the six-months that have to pass without having higher than guaranteed income than the neighborhood and the four-months of middle for the performance, a person had to pass up to two-months without tickets and, moreover, have the luck of giving it to him. During these months in which one had to prove his economic insufficiency, the Government drew back the guaranteed income to people who had worked for fifteen days, for example, or who had paid 645_euros in one month. It's for cases like these that we make this first six-to-two change. No such change has been made if the Government has communicated to the managers and managers the compatibility of these quantities, or even if Article 7.3 could have been used. But, of course, as we are three years old and half without regulations, so the performance is denied. I'm prorating benefits. As we pass from the six-months..., from the six to the two-months, it could be given the case that during these two-months the person applying for a benefit – to help him/her, from child to child – in a payment, but that they are services that are thought up throughout the year. And, therefore, as a higher income, it could also deny the guaranteed income of citizenship. And what it does is that these benefits that have an annual character can be prorated for a whole year. And finally, the concept of liberality. The guaranteed income of citizenship is configured as the last social protection network; in theory, why practicality, therefore, we have seen that it is quite different, right? These situations can be..., in these situations it is normal for a father, a mother, a brother, to help you pay the logger or mortgage, the light, the gas, etc. And it's all right with this line and with these cases that we don't think the law has to account for these tickets when they come from first and second-degree family members and they don't get over the import of guaranteed citizenship income twice. On this point my group has made different proposals to end by agreeing to one that I do not know if it is the best, but that is what we consider most appropriate. We also asked the government to make some proposals on how to control and manage this type of payments and we have not rejected any response. Therefore, we consider that, in the same way that the affidavit is a commonly used element for social services, this can also be extended to the SOC and that those entries made to account with the name of the family member can be supported by an affidavit from the plaintiff. These are some of the elements that they brought, just a few months ago, political formations as different as the PSC, common and the CUP to pose..., to propose this law reform; some elements also detected by the promoter commission at its time. That the parliamentary groups must resort to modification by way of the single reading, therefore, after three years and a half of not having regularity, is surely the objective data that certifies the lack of will to make the guaranteed income of citizens a real policy of rendering that assures a few minimums of a life worthy as marked by our State of autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of Deputy Marta Ribas, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.94.0	Good morning. This proposal stems from the shared concern, as already explained, of four opposition groups from multiple complaints and clues gathered from problems in the implementation of the Law of guaranteed citizenship income. Both vulnerable people affected by the counselling points, social workers, social entities found various elements of dysfunction, many of them, possible to be resolved with a regulation or with a change of political will of government income managers, but some required changes in the law. A key to this proposal: the reduction of time to show lack of entry. The current law obliges you to demonstrate that you have experienced with less vital minimum entries required during at least six months. This term is too long for people who find themselves in this situation of vulnerability. At the same time, one of the causes of dubious denials of performance requests was responsible for and is responsible for restrictive interpretations of the lack of entry; for example, denying the request for public social emergency assistance or help from family members or friends to survive. Then, a person must live – or rather soon survive – with less than six-hundred euros a month for at least six months in order to be able to demand guaranteed citizenship income and which is penalized for having rejected public social emergency aid or help from family members or friends during that time to survive. Surviving in these circumstances, therefore, involves having to resort very likely to some type of aid. And this cannot be penalized at the time of the guaranteed income of citizenship. It's not that we've been waiting for the law and the papers that we're here to defend this change. For these two reasons – to avoid these practical and persistent practices in denying certain guaranteed returns, but also to reduce the time you have to prove that you have had as few entries as you can access guaranteed income – we agreed with these three parliamentary groups and a parliamentary subgroup, as diverse as Ciutadans, PSC, the CUP or ourselves, to sign this bill together. The text of the proposal, however technically simple, has given a lot of debate, and that is why we have actually given it to the plenary – it has been explained before – months in which we have been meeting with the entities of the Government Commission for Guaranteed Income, with the same Commission for Guaranteed Income, in which we have been conducting legal consultations, in order to try to avoid, from a band, side effects in this modification that we would not want; to make it viable, this modification, and obviously to try to maintain that consensus on what the guaranteed income was approved and with which we believe that a modification of this law should be made. I want to put in value that this debate, during these months, has allowed to clearly improve many of the elements that we initially raised in this text. And that's what I hope we'll formalize with papers during this plenary to end up approving you said a text that you gave back to the initial pretensions of those that we pushed this law: to reduce to two_months the time of lack of entry and avoid the bad practice that certain entries that you may have to survive during those months are penalizing you, but at the same time make it viable and without unwanted side effects. And I hope that there are signs of consensus and that no one has any temperaments before possible..., futures – sure – Catalan elections [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Avia, to conduct electoralism with a theme like this. Therefore, what we are proposing to the House is to initiate a single reading debate to make these small but significant modifications to a law that forged consensus, that created rights and that we modify to correct and improve without losing that consensus with which we created it. I'm done. The increase of the severe material deprivation, or still, of the poverty of solemnity, in our country, from 5 per cent of the population of Catalonia to 6 and a half per cent must be overcome, must be a priority to eradicate, and, therefore, this must be done, counselor, with a full and more restrictive application of the Law of guaranteed citizenship income. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.96.0	The law of guaranteed citizenship income is surely one of the most progressive regulations of the approvals to the Parliament of Catalonia that kept its vigor. We, at the time of his approval, said that perhaps, therefore, we needed to move further, but he undoubtedly gave the necessary answer – and should continue to give the answer – to a good part of the families of this country who find themselves in a poor situation. We should also remember – and we should never forget – who is the origin of the guaranteed income of citizenship. It's not a parliamentary group. It's not the government's performance. It is the performance of the commission that promotes popular legislative initiative and everything that social movements mean in the legislative initiative of this guaranteed income. The potential that this could have, since its entry into force on September 15, 2017, has become – and we say so with all strength – a good part of the hopelessness of the last months, already practically the last years, for a model of management that for us is the neoliberal paradigm of how a performance is managed. For a band, the request for a positive managed silence, which should mean, if the Administration does not give an answer, immediately the approval of the performance, is abused of the request for new data in the dispatch processing, precisely when the deadline for the resolution is over, because those who request it cannot give an effective response and the performance is turned down, are communicated without or only explaining the causes of the denial, generating absolute defencelessness, and, at the end of the day, they also do not inform themselves in good time about the processing situation of the dispatch, and obviously we are not in any case referring to the workers and the workers who manage the performance, and at the end of the day, they are the ones who are supporting the output processing situation, and obviously we are not in any case referring to the workers and the workers who are managing the performance. We would also like to recall, and in political terms, that even before the existence of the current government, this parliamentary subgroup, between generation and March 2018, took political initiative in shaping the government to remind the groups that in the end they formed this as they were managing the performance. We insisted very much on the need to give alternatives, we insisted very much on concrete proposals that this group made, but we did not find the necessary answers. Also, after that, we have found at different times in this Chamber motions for resolutions that want to address the issue, which makes it clear that something does not work when we have permanent discussions on guaranteed citizenship income, and an earlier modification to the present one that we are discussing in this House. In an exercise also of responsibility for this subgroup with four deputies, we asked the Department of Work for preparatory work, notes or deletions on the rules. The answer given to us by the Department of Work was that not and not that we were placed at a meeting to explain to us we don't know very well what. We're still waiting for the meeting. We're already telling them that we don't need it anymore, because out of CTESC, not because we've given it to the Department of Work, we have a copy of this rule. But obviously, therefore, it also means how to reduce or attempt to reduce some parliamentary sub-group. Before all this we did not want to do an exercise to launch the napkin. We tried to do an exercise of alternatives for which many and many of the applicants for this service were patenting. And we have done so through the good work that continues to be carried out by the Commission for the Guaranteed Income of Citizenship, conveying its concerns to us, studying for more than six months which could be the alternatives, and they are the ones that we plant in this Ple. To give a basic answer to two essential questions: for one band, reduce the time or period in consideration for what makes at the entrances at the time to value the economic reality, going from the current to the second, and, for another band, also see this possibility of compatibility between the performance and certain aids. For the concrete modification that we are planting and above all for the urgency that always means the poor, we have obviously considered that the processing should be urgent and unique reading, which is how we are planting this processing. And we want to end with two questions. The first is that we think that unfortunately it will not be the last time we talk about guaranteed citizenship income in this legislature, and perhaps there is a lot left of it. And we have said in other interventions, always, that we have done on this matter. It won't be the last time. And let's try to explain why it won't be the last time. Mirin, transfer of the regulation to CTESC. The CTESC, for one band, is giving us six general observations and four observations in the articulation of this rule. So, too, that the government does the self-criticism to understand that there is something that is not working.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.97.0	Thank you. Thank you, Congressman. Then, and in order to position themselves, the rest of the groups intervene. I, in the first place, for the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.98.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, councillors, councillors, you know from time to time that the law of guaranteed citizenship income has been processed that it is not a solution to our enthusiasm, nor much less, is it? We understand... we understand and understand that you certainly entertain attention to what we consider to be more priority, that it is the creation of jobs, and therefore the consideration of work as a better social policy. Notwithstanding this, it is certain that it is necessary to address the reality of many, of the masses of people and families who are left without entrances and, therefore, remain in a situation of vulnerability that requires action by the administrations, the joint administration, in order to facilitate these people and families who can emerge from this situation. And from this point of view, the guaranteed income of citizenship is the tool that this Parliament considered most appropriate to try to address this situation and do so as a right subject rather than as a care act. They are, without any doubt, many of the particularities that arise from the application of the Law of guaranteed citizenship income and that in the same law it is expected that the answer will be found in the elaboration of the regulation by the Government of the Generality. However, insofar as this regulation has not yet arrived today, there are, of course, certain situations which need to be addressed with a certain urgency, and therefore this is the second proposal for a law amending the guaranteed income of citizens which was raised by the single reading procedure. The proposal we have today on the side of the table includes two elements: a first is to reduce the time without admissions of the person who asks to access the guaranteed income of citizenship from sis_mesos to two_mesos, from one band, but also from another band, not to consider how to enter certain emergency aids that may be covered in this period of time or help from relatives, phonentally economic aids of family members, that also fall between this period, that have been the arguments used by the Generality in order to deny access to the guaranteed income of citizenship to a significant number of people who have wanted to ask for it. This is the processing debate for a single reading of this bill's proposal. We'll give it support. Let us leave for the debate of the content, for the debate of the content that we will have in properity during this same Ple, some deeper reflection on this question. But now, at first, we will give support to your unique reading process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.99.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Rut Ribas, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.100.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor... very good morning to all and to all. Last September the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans, Socialists and Units to Advance, the CUP and Catalonia in Comú can say in press that they would jointly present a proposal of law to modify some article of the guaranteed income of citizens, and they already let us know that they would try to do it using this way, the way of the single reading. We do not believe that it is the most appropriate way, and from the Republican Group we believe that a measure such as this would be more appropriate to follow the process of a proposal of law, with its weight and final vote, and we also believe that doing so would have taken sufficient time and thus avoid and generate a change in today's time without having been able to do the debate. The Law 14/2017 was approved on July 2017 and came into operation on the same September of that same year, replacing the one that was until then the minimum income of insertion; a complex process and with the involvement of many actors and agents. And it was Constellera Bassa who filed the lawsuit for the ILP, listened to all the shares and devoted all efforts to make the creation of guaranteed citizenship income real. We came from a time of detail and Constellera Bassa created a right. With approval, the door opened to a great adventure to improve the lives of the most vulnerable people in the country and also expanded the range of people who could demand the new income. Therefore, it is converted into a non-basic benefit, but it is much more extensive. We all know that the guaranteed income from citizenship is deployed with a transitional period until 2020. And yesterday was remembered by Councillor El Homrani in the appearance of the assumptions of the department that is close to coordinating, that this April ends the implementation process, as the same law marks. Since the Group of the Republic we agree that we need to study the way in which all people who are in a situation of vulnerability or few resources have not been excluded from the service, but we do not share the way in which they do it for one reading, because, before this end, we need to be able to make a debate that is substantive, a debate with enough time so that it can come out well. But at times, we accept the single reading, because we have a few weeks talking to unions, employers, third sector, and trying to reach an agreement. And we also accept the single reading because we have reached an agreement in the framework of the various modifications linked to the assumptions of 2020 between the commons and the Republican Left. And, in the end and in the end, we will not deceive ourselves: this no longer has a unique way of reading. That's why we celebrated having been able to reverse this kind of processing. And also note that the government has always been willing to talk to us. In fact, we could come to an agreement and celebrate that we could also find consensus. And it is that the essence of guaranteed income is that it was thought and shared, as has already been said, by many agents of society, and it was all political groups in the room of the moment, the unions, the entities and the citizenry that participated in it. And from here came the will to advance to a better way that guarantees the life worthy of the most vulnerable people. But, despite all this, it's hard for us to find this change in the law through one reading, because we think that we need to put in place that there's a commission, that comes out of the same law, that it's all different and representative, that it makes the annual reports and that it also makes the assessment of the shippers that are there. But when we have a social issue and this complexity we need a serious and in-depth debate, assess its impact and make part of the social fabric that gave place to the law in its moment. But, as I said to the principle, from the Republican Group we want to be on the side of people, and, in order to move forward and address better resources, we also believe that some changes are being made. And, since some parliamentary groups have wanted to open the door, we do not want to let this opportunity seal slip away and seek to allocate better resources to the citizenry. So let's hope, then, that we finally take all the compromise folds and forget about some arguments that go around how it applies and how it manages. And if today, during this plenary, we propose between everyone and everyone changing the law, it is because you have points of better, not because the department does not apply it or is not doing the proper management. And before I'm done, I'd also like to thank all that we've had so far with these early negotiations that we've had so that we can reach a possible agreement today, that we hope it's real; an agreement that we believe will allow us to move forward and that's above all an agreement that's what it's about to be at people's side. Therefore, we too, from here, hope to find the consensus among all the groups in the chamber and that this is real the divender, when we make the final vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, it is the turn of MP Saloua El Garbhi, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.102.0	Hello, very good day, vice president, counselor, deputies, deputies, guests, workers and workers. To begin with, we insist, like Juntes per Catalunya, that we must not forget that guaranteed citizenship income is a priority issue for us and that, in fact, it was the most important social measure of the government of the President and current MEP Carles Puigdemont. First of all, we think we need a modification of the law on guaranteed citizenship income. But we need to think about going further, and instead of doing every once in a while brushstrokes separately, we might have to think of a comprehensive and profound reform, because there are many problems and legislative shortcomings that are still unresolved. And in this way we confirm our willingness to change the law to improve it. Because it's a better law, yes, it's a better law, contrary to when you want to use the guaranteed income of citizenship to make demagogic, to focus criticism on the application and manage it, when the subject of management and application are necessary elements for a good discipline of functioning. But it's not the main problem or the biggest problem, even though everything is better, it also managed it, also before the self-criticism that we could do. We have to do the work of the changes together, leaving partyism, sectarianism and weakly constructive criticisms about implementation and management, so that we can concentrate all folds on correcting the legislative imperfections that have been produced. Yes, it is necessary a correction of the legislative imperfections that were produced. Because to fight against inequalities, social injustice and precariousness, among all, put the person and his dignity at the center. Names so we act in favor of our citizenship. With regard to the Proposal for a law amending Article 7(b) of Law 14/2017 of 20 July 2017 on guaranteed income for citizens, it is proposed that it be treated and voted by single reading procedure. The position of our group, Together for Catalonia..., we consider that the procedure may not be appropriate for a modification of a law that is characterized by high complexity and this social fall. I must also remember that it is the second amendment in this legislature that was made with the single reading, as has already been said. Moreover, we consider that the text submitted does not apply, because it has inconsistencies and technical shortcomings that make it impossible to apply it to practice. And, as we are a group that seeks consensus and unity and we have a built-in spirit, our intention is to propose contingencies, which we hope will make possible the application of the proposals they intend to carry out. But, despite this and even though there is a different division according to the reasons explained, our position on this reading procedure is based on a vote in favour. Yes, with a vote in favour, because guaranteed citizenship income is a social justice issue and it's a tool that seeks to cover the basic needs of any vulnerable citizen, and changes will help improve access for people who are excluded from guaranteed citizenship income. And that is why we have valued neither voting against it nor abstaining. Regardless of the critics he is a fan, we must recognize that today the guaranteed income of citizens already has more than 124,000 beneficiaries and beneficiaries, a 16_per_cent more than September 2017 and more than twice the old RMI two years after its laying in march. And, thanks to the guidance and training service, more than five thousand families have agreed to a work contract, the main objective of guaranteed citizenship income. In relation to the assumptions also of 2020, there is an increase of EUR 125_million, which will certainly not be enough, but it is an important basis for strengthening labour market integration and social inclusion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.103.0	We called for a vote. Meanwhile, I do know that in the proposed change I have also forgotten to include the modification of item 11 of the order of the day, as a result of the change that was approved earlier by consent, is to say that the inquiry to the Government on the situation of young people, concerning this item 11 that we give of the order of the day, would be substantial following the 13-difference point in the morning, huh? As far as the change we made before, to pass the inquiry to this middle, is also moving the timing of the dives in the line we have commented, it is to say that point 11 would be substance you did not say late, but you divested in the morning. In any case, we will distribute a new sequence of the plenary to the parliamentary groups, so that they are not on the case. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let us, therefore, proceed to the vote on the single reading of the proposed amendment law of the Law 14/2017. The vote on the single reading begins. The single reading procedure was approved unanimously, i.e. 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Given the result of the vote, therefore, it will be dealt with for a single reading. The deadline for submission of so many issues to the whole as well as issues to the joint will end tomorrow at 12 noon, and once this deadline has been completed it will last until the same plenary session tomorrow at the plenary session when the issues to the whole and the joint are discussed in the same act, with a common turn of two minutes for parliamentary groups and sub-groups. This debate, you said, you said; no, it will substantiate to sell in the morning, the debate of the papers to the totality and to the joint is will make to sell in the morning and the deadline to present them, to present these papers, you have said to the twelve midday. [[Decree-Law No 17/2019 of 23 December 2019 on urgent measures to improve access to housing]] [[203-00025/12]] Let's now move to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 17/2019, of 23 December, of urgent measures to improve access to housing. According to Article 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability will intervene in the first place to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. So, when you want, counselor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.104.0	Good morning to all, President, Councillors – Vice President, in fact – Members, Members. We present today the validation before this chamber of the Decree Law 17/2019, of 23 December – we approved the government a few weeks ago–, a decree that we have named « urgent measures to improve access to housing. The country cannot wait for the time involved in a process of drafting an ordinary law to deal with the following five issues; in certain aspects it is necessary to proceed to this process, to this procedure, to an emergency law decree, and to be able to validate it here in Parliament. Then I will also mention, how we would like to develop this way of working so that we can have more robust housing legislation. They know that this decree has its history, that in fact this decree passed the year before we approved it, the government approved it, but after we withdrew it from the order of the plenary day in which it should have been validated. And we did it because at that time, so we found that we did not have enough consent, enough consent to approve it. I also said, and I do not want to stop saying it in this faristol today, that we believe that we could have found consensus in dealing with it as a bill but that certainly as a result of legitimate electoral interests, so that situation we had to leave for a better occasion, which is this. Indeed, from then until now the Government, through the Secretary of Housing, the Secretary of the Urban Agenda and Territories, of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, and also of the Catalan Institute of the Sun, of the technical structure that works the housing policies of the Government of the Generalitat, has been working tirelessly with parties, with institutions and associations so as to be able to present a new decree and to be able to validate it here, in the Catalan chamber. I'd like to draw some of the main features of the decree. I can't help but make a little history, a little history recently, for which it precisely makes habitation. The escalating economic crisis of the years 2008-2009 meant a profound rethinking of many housing policies; of many policies in general, however, housing was one of the harms. The phenomen derived from the crisis, such as the rise of the Atur, the loss of power acquired by many people and families in our country, created many more difficulties to be able not only to access, but to maintain the habitation, and, therefore, multiplied by many denunciations; the drama of denunciations, which exceeded 88,000 in Catalonia between 2013 and 2018. During all these years we have had to allocate from the Government of the Generality – and we have done so with much collaboration with, legally, entities, local administrations – we have had to allocate a lot of public resources, aid and benefits to avoid habitat loss. It was EUR 50_million in 2012, but now, 2018, we have already reached the xifra of EUR 130_million, direct aid to pay, therefore, housing maintenance benefits to people and families. They have also been years since we have, therefore, spent, invested resources and efforts to reallocate people and families who had lost their habitation because of the impossibility of paying the mortgage or the lodger – so, first pay, after reallocate – they have, in the end, gone to what has been called the housing emergency, huh? , one of the emergencies that the country sees, by the way, I insist, of the performance and destination of the total practice of the available social housing park – of the available – to the attention of the emergence: people and families who had lost the habitat. This problem has remained – it has remained, still has – and will remain. These are the forecasts that we make from the Department of Lands and Sustainability, where we believe it will be kept at least to a minimum, despite the better of the economic context, which is also evident; a better of the economic context that brought us to the top of a 10.45_per_cent in 2019, when we arrived at 20_per_cent. Despite this improvement in the economic context, we believe that the problem is not so much just the one we have, but that it will remain as it is at the very end. And, therefore, the risk of social exclusion persists in important sections of the citizenry, which have difficulties in getting out of the crisis or where the crisis brought them; in the case of young people, for example, who suffer from the precariousness of the labour market, serious difficulties in emancipating themselves and accessing the housing market. And to sum up, we have a structural shortage of public resources, especially in housing. Lack of public resources has significantly impacted on the promotion of protected habitat, for example. We're no longer talking about helping people and families, helping them with services, but helping them or the toughest policies, helping them with the totxo, as I sometimes call them, public promotion or helping to promote private protected housing. On the other hand, the lack of public resources has led to a decrease in the number of jobs in the construction and finance sectors, which has also led to a reduction in the number of jobs available to those looking for housing, who still have major difficulties in accessing finance. Therefore, it is not only the promotion sector but also the finance sector. And we have a historical delay in the consolidation of the logger market – I am referring to the logger not only the eligible one, but also the logger of the free market – we have, like the country, a historical delay in the consolidation of this market as a socially prestigious option, as a powerful option. This also contributed to this scener who is now describing them. So, we agree, we can agree, that the reptes are large and require firm responses, transversal responses that affect the multiple areas that interact in the matter of habitat. Habitat policies are of great complexity. I sometimes use a phrase that says: in the reception of housing policies there are many ingredients; there is only one, for me, above all, that is the increase in the park of suitable housing, but we have to keep everything else – we have to keep everything else – and we have to keep it, effectively, with different things. Our response from the Government pretends to be that, firm and cross-cutting, urgent, before the emergence. And in part it is this decree of the law, this decree of the law which we approved at the end of December and which today we carry, if the chamber considers it, to its validation. We want to give thanks – I have done so before, much above all, but – I want to give the thanks explicitly to the parliamentary groups of the PSC and the commons – especially with them we have worked on the content of this decree – to entities that have managed to speak and debate with the government to make a decree law – I want to thank their presence today, too, here in plenary session – that we believe it gives response, not total, but a firm and cross-cutting response to the needs that the Catalan society demands. Thank you for participating, I insist, in a tool that we have built among all, that we have improved among all respect for the initial proposal, not only that which we approved on your day but also that which we initially presented in this process. This decree law, therefore, for the Government of the Generality is essential; essential because the country has the objective of renewing in a consensual manner also this legislative framework of which it spoke before it; the legislative framework that refers to the right to housing as a concept – it is a law that already stands at fifteen years of life. And also renew the National Habitat Pact, which must be approved for the completion of the previous pact. We need to keep working on these two instruments. We are all aware – and at the same time, at the presentation of the premises of the Department of Territory and Sustainability, in the joint appearance before the Commission of Territories and the Commission of Sustainability, many of you have already listened to this reflection, we have devoted much of the presentation of the premises to talking about housing – that we need to have legislation that merges the multitude of tools that we have had in these last years, also the fruit of circumstances, of the situation that we have been living in as the country. A reference to a law that is already fifteen years old, the Law of the Right to Housing, but here we can add to Decree 1/15, which allowed us to start a political line, a very powerful line of political action, and which I always try to put in value, which is buying for money and retracting. Many have not yet arrived; we since the year 2015 are buying by lot and retraction, it is a capacity to increase the fast and effective park. Or anything that makes reference to the Law of the tax of empty habitations. Here too there are many people who have not arrived; we, like the Government, have arrived, and we receive money that we dedicate exclusively to housing policies. Or the 24/15, popular initiative, which was, therefore, in fi, in perill by virtue of the recourse to the Constitutional, but among all we were able to save. Previously, also with that law that we did, the 4/16, which intended to give up a few concepts of the 24/15 and save them, but, finally, in the negotiation with the current government of the State – vaja, the current one, not the previous one – in order to be able, therefore, to overcome that appeal that was lodged by the government before the previous one before the Constitutional one. And now this decree. Therefore, a whole set of tools, from the law to all these decrees, that would be up to date. It would be a good idea to bring housing legislation up to date in a more effective and modern way. And that's why – and I am moving on to a petition that I will also reiterate at the end of my intervention – we do not consider that this decree that we have today to validate is to be processed as a bill of law, because it would be a very partial view of housing policies. It would be safe, too, legitimate to fessimize it, huh? , and the chamber considers it. If we did a review of this decree as the bill of law surely we'd still finish it more – that's to finish... –, we'd improve it more, huh? But anyway, we don't think he's the one who's playing right now. We believe that what is at stake is to validate and give full effect to this decree, and then begin a debate that merges, I repeat, the multitude of scattered, able to each one in itself, but dispersed, that we have in the matter of habitation. They ask, therefore, as to the Government that... in any case, to the question whether this decree is to be treated as the bill, the position of the Government is that it is not so, for the answer I have already advanced, because we need to renew the legislation with a complete, not partial, view. I'm going into the matter. The most important of this decree is that it is intended to respond adequately to the urgent needs we have and to enter a new phase in the management of the problems arising from the impact that the crisis has had on access and the maintenance of the habitat and, in particular, on the protected habitat; it also enters the protected habitat in the form of a logger. One finding: Catalonia has a public park of insufficient habitat – insufficient –, we have said many times. This is a reality in which we would all agree. There are approximately twenty-one thousand, twenty-one thousand and one thousand dwellings that are the direct responsibility of the Generality, which are managed through the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, and some fifteen thousand that depend on local administrations, through their own vehicles, on their own instruments of promotion of soil and habitation. So we move around 2_percent of the total number of main habitats– main, huh? –, 2_per_cent. It's a xifra that's very long, very long from the countries around Europe that we want to get together. And the latest statistics published on the report The State of Housing in the European Union, which was published in September 2019, certifies that the percentage of housing in social logger in Europe is located in a middle around '11_per_cent– fixin-s'hi, 11_per_cent–, we are at 2_per_cent. Therefore, here there is much to improve and it is everyone's responsibility, and to make it act with agility, efficiency, with cross-sectionality before the problem we have with the public or private housing park – public or private – which is certainly, as we say, escavia. While, every year, the other side of the coin continues to increase: before the park jifra, the jifra of the register of housing solicitants, which grows, and which now we already have a register that exceeds 189,000 inscriptions. All this must then be distilled a lot and finished, so see if, in fact, the applicant ends up with a person or a family who can choose to... but in any case, the register, the magnitude of the problem is in this important figure, which I have already said exceeds 189,000 inscriptions. With this decree we also act in front of the inflationary dynamics of the lloger market, which spread, say, from Barcelona to far, with increments greater than 6_per_cent in the prices of lloger in the last three years. This contributes to the greater amount of housing expenditure among families living in lloger habitats. For this issue we are aware that, therefore, it is not only being dealt with at the level of the Government of the State, through the current coalition of government between the PSOE and We can – welcome any reflection that is being made – but above all, what counts here to our country is that the Department of Justice with the help, the collaboration, the joint work of the Department of Territories, is working to be able to carry, again – that decree also has its history – the decree that can regulate to moderate the increase of the price of food. I insist, it is a decree that was approved, that it was not possible to validate by voting here in the Parliament of Catalonia – we were also on some dates, therefore, when there were legitimate electoral interests of one and the other – but, in any case, as we have done with this decree, we will do it again, and I understand that the Councilwoman Chapel with our help is working to get it to the earliest possible date. It will well match the decree that is to be carried with our decree, the one that we intend to validate today. We follow this decree of urgent measures. We believe that we are fighting existing difficulties in the management of emergencies and the risk of residential exclusion, because we want – and this is a phone book – to reduce the name of denunciations. Reduce it. It was recorded an increment of 4,8_per_cent between 2017 and 2018, exceeding 13,900 denonations l'year 2019, with 9,229 in the first three quarters of 2019– here there are also dates, quarters, which are especially complicated to manage. And we need to reduce – today too – the waiting lists for the award of housing in favorable cases during the months of emergencies. We also have a problem, we have a little park destined for emergencies, and there are a few months of emergencies that have lists, so very high. Some are managed directly from the joints, others are managed jointly, all of them, from the same Habitatage Agency. The one in Barcelona and those of the other two cities with their own table are stagnant around 1,500 cases, huh? , with a favourable report, that they cannot still access a habitat of emergence to all Catalonia. To combat these problems, therefore, this decree; this habitating law decree. Various actions that can be divided into four large pillars: the first would be the model change of the protected habitat, structural change of the protected habitat. The impulse to an urbanism, would be the second, to serve the promotion of protected housing of lloger, to connect the urbanistic policies with the policies of essential housing. The reinforcement, this would be the third point, of the tools to help contain the renderings of logger – before in ugly reference. And last, fourth pillar, the best of the emergency response mechanisms. Precisely this last one, to which he referred. In the first place, the decree supposes..., more than the first place, the first pillar: this decree supposes a change in the protected housing model, a change, therefore, deep, establishing what we have named a single module – there were already modules depending on many circumstances and categories. A single module linked to the cost of building, and determining it also, to protected housing, permanent qualification. It will be a single module linked to the costs of permanent building and qualification. Introduce a specific qualification in urban planning, huh? , for protected habitat of logger, and makes significant changes in the procedure for awarding protected habitats and in the functioning of the same register of protected habitat applicants. The decree assumes, for the first time, that access to public aid will be given priority when paying to residents in protected housing in order to strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable groups. It will also ensure the collection of returns to the protected housing promoters, which will ultimately imply a greater incentive so that these private promoters – also public ones, but in any case, very focused on private promoters – boost the promotion of protected housing from logger. Second place, second big pillar. The law provides for urban measures. I again insist on the importance of linking urban policies to housing policies in order to ultimately enhance the promotion of protected housing as a rule. This is one of the most unique elements of the new standard, since housing policy is agreed with urban planning, reconnect more – more and better – into the two spheres, eh? , transferring to the regulations the close connection that already exists. For example, the decree provides that the exit soles of urban development-derived joints, those that follow, must now be destined for the joints to protected habitat of lloger. We focus our efforts on developing and increasing the range of suitable logger habitats. Or cedited with surface right to protected habitat promoters in a logger regime. That is to say, we mobilize the solos, they cannot be kept in between in the hope that there are certain political circumstances or financed in a certain local administration. We also have, through this decree, mechanisms so that the mobilization is immediate with many formulas to be able to hi-adapt. This right-of-surface cessation, for example, is or can be a good formula. Also in the area of urban planning, we highlight the establishment of mechanisms for the gradual mobilisation of public limited assets, which involves initiating an inventory of available resources and a process of transitional development that can be assumed for the joint ventures. It is true that this can also be a great burden, but in any case, everything we have through this decree, therefore, must be done in a way..., the words I have used are "transitional and "absorbable, and with all the help of the Government of the Generality". But, ultimately, the public heritage alone must be at the disposal of housing policies, with mobilization, insistence, transitory, consumable, with accompanying, but indefusible – but indefusible. Third place, third big pillar. An important piece of the decree that we carry today to validation has to see with the normative ability on the behavior of the renderings of the logger, on the price. That, of course, our capacity is limited, while at the same time the state's competences in the matter, and the need to respect the legal framework in the field of consumption, is obvious; but the new decree takes a step further in the measures for the containment of logger yields, as it is now obliged to record the reference index of logger prices in the advertisements and in the contracts of the habitats that are placed on the logger market – it already exists, but it is voluntary, we have to do so. This measure, we believe, is no less, we believe it is not a smaller measure, because it provides this index with a major, much greater capacity of incidence; it brings meaning to the market of logger transparency, and it is a more effective tool to contribute to price containment. Also in this line of giving more capacity to the index, the decree provides that no owner may be entitled to public aid, subsidies, subsidies, financing – linked to the housing, obviously – if the object housing of these subsidies, subsidies, finance that is possible to find, does not respect the index of reference price. Anyone who is above the reference price index will not be able to access these public aids. And that, obviously, is an important incentive for us because the index is not so much taken into account, just to give transparency to the whole system. It will, we believe, be a key factor for aid on the part of the owners. I'm finished; the fourth pillar. The fourth pillar of the measures provided for in the decree has to do with the management of emergencies, which is very important. The problem of denunciations – before we say so – is maintained. It has changed the nature of the cases: they have passed in a few years from being mostly denominations by default of the mortgage to be-to-be at present, to a large extent, by default of the logger, by default of the logger's refusal. The intensity of the denunciations is being maintained, and therefore, more than maintaining the compromise with the system of benefits and aids to avoid the loss of habitat – it helps them by presupposition of the agency and the department to which I refer to the principle of my intervention – more than by maintaining this compromise, the Government has, through this decree, proposed that it be validated today, for new measures to obtain public management habitats that allow for better treatment of cases of emergency. For example: the norm, this decree, contemplates the creation of equipment for accommodation, we or the result of expansion of existing equipment, in order to increase the offer of protected habitat that solves, in short, cases of emergence. It also implies the extension, for six years, of the exercise of the right of aunty and retraction, established in Decree 1/15– to the principle of my intervention also makes reference – which ended in 2021 but with this decree we propose that it be extended, so that the Generality, the assemblies and entities of the third environmental sector can continue to expand, through many and retraction, this housing park until 2027; a date, therefore... or a date, a fact of this decree, relevant and important. Only the Generality, in the exercise of the right of aunty and retraction, has expanded the park under the responsibility of the Agency of Habitatage in three_ thousand new habitats from the end of 2015 until today. Therefore, to reiterate that this is a great tool of which we have given ourselves as a country since Decree 1/15, which has meant exponential increases in our housing stock – it is impossible to maintain the same growth rate of the park only with public promotion – the route of tanteig and retraction has been absolutely definitive, and we want to exploit it, so we want to extend it as much as possible: to end 2021, the six-year extension, until 2027. Moreover, the decree extends the abst of this capacity of tanteig and retraction to include the second and third transmissions of housing, obviously, coming from mortgage execution, and makes it possible for all Catalonia, not only to the municipality of strong accredited demand. Therefore, we give much capacity to the tanteig and retraction, which, I insist, has been a very valid way to increase the fleet of suitable logger habitats. The decree also assumes a step forward in the way of expropriation in order to obtain habitat intended for the attention of emergency situations, through the modification of the famous Article 15 of Law 4/16. The expropriation of an empty habitat of a great tenor can also be done on the domain, and not only on the use – on the domain, and not only on the use –; therefore, we are talking about complete expropriation. It can also be emphasized that the structures of buildings that have more than 80_percent of finished works are also included. Therefore, let's go, there, scratching all the possibilities that we have to obtain, therefore, habitats to dedicate to the emergence that allows us to have a more quantitative park. These structures can be expropriated in order to be developed and obviously destined for social housing once again. And finally, the decree extends the law to prevent the loss of housing to vulnerable people or families and strengthens the mechanism of compulsory social logger provided for in 24/15. It obliges the general public to offer a proposal for a social logue before any legal action is brought against persons or families who believe that they are socially vulnerable, and it extends from three to seven years the contract for a compulsory social logue. And there are, at the same time, mechanisms in place to make this social logger for people or families with accredited vulnerability who make more than six months living in housing without the corresponding enabling title. This is two very powerful novelties that we have introduced into this decree and that are richly debated with social entities as well, as it cannot otherwise be. I would like once again to welcome the introduction of these problems and, in any case, from the parliamentary groups and from the government, we can bring them together in the article that we are presenting today to validate: a requirement for a proposal for a social logue, a three-year extension to seven years, and, therefore, a capacity..., "capacity: a requirement for social logue to persons or families with an accredited vulnerability who make more than six-months living in protected housing without an enabling title. In any case, all this always goes through what they are, so reports of the social services, of the assemblies, because there has to be this link between the knowledge that the administration is closest to, huh? , the gathering, of this situation of vulnerability and the action that we can then make from the Government of the Generality. But between both administrations and with this legislative framework we believe that, effectively, we can get there where we have not yet arrived, and we did not get there and cause, therefore, situations of heavy and unlearned very bloody for society – very bloody for society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.105.0	Thank you, counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.106.0	I said 'thank you very much for giving the thanks of this specific point above all to the people of the PAH; but I wanted, if the president allows me, to continue, re, a little more... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.107.0	All right. We thought it was over. In any case, I continued, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.108.0	Yeah, yeah... it's just that there's been a... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, well, it's been a moment of excitement, because we're actually introducing important issues through this decree and it came out like this. I'm sorry, huh? And I suppose those who applauded... some did it out of emotion too, some of them out of inertia... but in any case, I'm still a little bit more. With the validation that the chamber, if it does well, will finally take effect all these measures, and more open the possibility of undertaking new short-term actions to increase the social housing stock, which is the main urgency that we have in this area. Some examples – and now I will end – of all this related to the expansion of social logger habitat. We want to strengthen the line of subsidized loans promoted by the Habitatage Agency and the Catalan Institute of Finance to promote the promotion of protected housing, with a new call that will improve the previous – this is the famous ICF 2. We anticipate that the Habitatage Agency will open a new line of help to the payment of logger for residents in endowment rentals. Therefore, we also get to another profile of people or families in a vulnerable situation. The Government also plans to extend the line of subsidized loans promoted by the agency and the Catalan Institute of Finance to promote the exercise of the right of money and withdrawal – this is the ICF 1. Another example has to do with the sanctioning and inspection mechanisms of empty habitats, which are clarified with the new standard. We see that the competence in this area will be exercised in a coordinated and concerted manner between the Generality and the joint ventures. The Government has predicted that it will offer to the municipalities with more problems arising from the months of emergencies the signature of agreements, of specific agreements to co-finance with the municipalities the inspection of empty habitats during 2020. So, what measures are derived from this decree, huh? And we assume, from the Government of the Generality, a cost of three hundred euros per habitat for the management of these shippers. This assumes half the estimated cost of these inspections, to which it will be necessary to add that the expropriation or cessation of these habitats are also co-financed for the same Habitating Agency. Therefore, we are building elements that allow us not only to legislate, but also to act already on the advance for which I am fighting to signify the validation of this decree; powerful mechanisms that extend the capacity of the action radius to us, with much, much ambition. And, finally, the decree reinforces the role of Incasòl, of the Catalan Institute of Sol, a state structure, an indispensable tool for the development of soil and habitat policies in the country. The Incasòl will be able to mobilize a greater number of fish of soil of its own property, promote suitable logger habitat, locations with greater demand... We anticipate, by this 2020, to exceed the five hundred programmed habitats, between five hundred and six hundred. This always takes into account, so obviously, the building costs, but these are the figures for 2020. And in a line that looks like the government has predicted that it is also the Incasole that I built housings or endowments of logger available, the endowments to which we referred before. A further example of this important role of the Institute, of the Català del Sòl Institute, has to do with collaboration with housing cooperatives and other social promoters in order to promote joint agreements so that the area right or administrative concession – one or other procedure – of municipal ownership alone is assumed for housing cooperatives and other social promoters. And the Generality, the Incasòl, will act as facilitator of these agreements and as manager of the competition. All the above shows the ambition of this decree and its great possibilities to advance ahead of the problems and challenges we have in the area of protected housing from social logger, in the attention of cases of emergence in the behavior of the logger market. The new rule, in short, is a great opportunity to solve urgent problems; not the only one, because I insist that we also make an effort to be able to legislate in a more orderly, more coordinated way, all the dispersion of regulations we have now. But adding this decree, so let's touch it, I would say that all the spheres of housing policies, with the ambition of being able to build this new law of housing reference, which we will start to do immediately. In parallel to this important step to bring to us a standard framework of reference that already has thirteen years of life, I would also like to point out – I said the principle of my intervention – that it will be necessary to defuse the dialogue processes necessary to renew the National Habitation Pact as an instrument of political, institutional and social consensus that guides us in the next few years and that makes us all look at the same meaning – in a very special way to the Generality, obviously, together, to social entities and the private sector – to address housing policies with more ambition and with more willingness to resolve such an important social problem, which the Government of the Generality, since the first day, has put in place a great deal of effort and there will continue to pose. Now I'm done. The decree, like the present one today, still does not contemplate – because it is at the Board of Statutory Guarantees – a small modification that we saw once we had approved, which, therefore, will be validated – if this is the case the room is well-suited. This validation of today, if the chamber votes favorably, and propera it will set up this decree of urgent measures in the matter of habitating. Many thanks, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.109.0	Well, now, counselor, thank you very much. It is now the turn of parliamentary groups to fix their position... Yes, tell me, sir, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.110.0	Yes, President, just to make a point. However, we at the Board of Spokesmen limited our time, all the parliamentary groups, with the aim of saving the time of the plenary, and taking into account the extension of the Councillor's presentation, bearing in mind that there is also unlimited time, I would appreciate it if it were a little flexible with these times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.111.0	I am, Congresswoman. In any case, it is the turn, we say, of parliamentary groups, and in the first place is the word of Mr Sergio Sanz, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.112.0	Thank you, President; advisors, deputies... The first thing I wanted to do is to criticize the use of the instrument of the decree law, and I will do so by citing article 38 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November, of the Presidency of the Generalitat and the Government. It provides that, in case of extraordinary and urgent need, it may issue provisional legislative provisions in the form of a decree law as expressed in article 64 of the Statute. Of course, we are talking about provisional legislative provisions. The problem we have with housing is a long-standing structural problem, in the absence of adequate housing policies since they have had competition. [[Addressing the Speaker of Parliament.]] President, this works backwards...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.113.0	He was in good time, like the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.114.0	Well, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.115.0	I'll put it back there, not pateixi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.116.0	Well, I'm going on. In their memory, they justify the decree by saying that it is urgent to have a legislative instrument with the status of law that allows the current situation of extreme difficulty in access to affordable housing for a significant part of the population to be renewed. Well, we have said this quite a few times: we do not consider the main problem to be the legal framework. There are other problems, such as, for example, that the Government of the Generalitat has been presenting budgets out of time for 10 years. We have been without a budget for three years, but there is also another problem, and it is that on a recurrent basis what the Government of the Generalitat allocates to housing policies is half of what is allocated on average in relation to its budget by the rest of the autonomous communities. I say it because here, then, yes, we can talk about tanteo and retract, but so much and retract, if we don't have resources, we won't get those houses. So, the problem we have with housing, I insist, is lack of budget, poor public policies on the part of the Generalitat, mismanagement, and not so much the legislative framework. Other communities are in better circumstances and the legislative framework is very similar. So what we think is urgent is that the Government of the Generalitat multiply this budget as approved in this Parliament, which was proposed by Citizens, 1,000_million_of_euro housing over the next ten years. The Government justifies the decree saying that we are in a housing emergency, but we did not see him worried about that emergency when, in 2017, they sold public residential land to a private promoter for free housing. Nor did we see him worried when they chose to sell the Llandrich factory in San Adrian del Besós, even though we proposed, through a parliamentary initiative, that the houses that were built there should be made with public ownership. Nor did it seem to us that they saw these emergencies when a few months ago they put on sale the plots of the Llevant de Viladecans sector. I literally quote the ad: « Unique opportunity to invest in residential land. It seemed: « Incasòl, speculation and promotion. At that time we saw them not using the housing floor as an instrument of social policy, but as a financing instrument of the Generalitat. So, well, they justify the decree saying that it is necessary to effectively increase the overall supply of housing at moderate prices, but we have not seen that what they say has been practiced with their management. So one starts to suspect. It begins to suspend if this decree pursues the purposes it claims to pursue, or pursues a headliner already preparing these elections that have announced us, or that they want to approve a budget to have... the headliner to approve a budget, perhaps also a housing decree to announce that they have approved a housing decree. During the interpellation, I reminded him, counselor, that budget execution on housing had been reduced by 5_per_cent between 2017 and 2018, while spending on the media increased during the same period, to which they allocated more resources than on housing policies. I insist: we have a problem with the financing of housing policies. Of course, with such a fact, one has the suspicion that the decree seeks that political revenue, because the Government has proved to have other priorities. And as I said, the main problem is not legal, the main problem has to do with management. If the government has sold public land, it is not because there is a law that forces them to sell public land, it is because they have decided to sell public land. If the Government allocates more resources and resources to the media, it is not because the law obliges them to devote more to the media than to housing, it is because they decide to do so. And honestly, it seems to us that in order to solve the housing problem, it is much more urgent for the Government to stop doing that than to adopt a decree amending, without a sufficiently serious and extensive parliamentary debate, the legislative framework affecting housing. That is why we insist that the appropriate mechanism to address these issues we think would have been the draft law, and that, therefore, should it be validated, we will request that it be treated as a draft law. Let's review some of the proposals of the decree. The decree is quite extensive, amends provisions of Law 18/2007 on the right to housing; of Decree 1/2015 on urgent extraordinary measures for the mobilization of housing from mortgage executions; Law 24/2015 on urgent measures to deal with the emergency in the field of housing; Law 4/2016 on measures to protect the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion and the Urbanism Act. We have many of them, but in the end Catalonia remains the community with the most evictions. Communities have fewer laws and more budget, more public policy, and fewer evictions. So, well, we have already seen that the legislative issue is not so effective. But anyway. There are measures that seem appropriate to us, within this decree. As, for example, the price reference index has to be included in rental announcements. In fact, this is a proposal that we have already made. We also think it appropriate that the classification of protected housing should be permanent, or that the time limit for the exercise of the right of tanteo and retraction should be extended. I insist, right of tanteo and retraction without budget, it serves no purpose. But there are also aspects in which it seems to us that the decree is not ambitious, for example when it states that only municipalities with more than fifty thousand inhabitants must subscribe to a concerted action programme to mobilize public land and housing assets. This leaves out municipalities in the metropolitan area of Barcelona and elsewhere in Catalonia, which should be an effective part of the solution. Another issue that does not seem appropriate to us is that they should consider as empty housing those who have been illegally occupied, despite the fact that their owners have initiated legal proceedings for the recovery of their possession. That is why we have brought this decree to the Council of State Guarantees. Finally, however, I would also like to reflect on the new definition of 'large housing forks', which also extends to natural persons. It seems reasonable to us that there should be measures to ensure that those who concentrate more wealth contribute, to a greater extent, to the common good. But we also believe that this objective must be achieved through tax measures rather than through new social obligations, which can probably be circumvented with negative effects on the general interest. Look, I don't know the number of natural persons who own more than fifteen homes, but we can see that, with the new obligation imposed on them, we are likely to see how they raise the demand for guarantees to potential tenants during their selection, or even put some housing for sale to avoid having to incur that obligation. Because, of course, we are not going to have effects that are contrary to the desired ones. Because if they raise the conditions for access to housing, people with fewer resources could be left out. On the other hand, this measure also does not provide any guarantee for those tenants who rent to small owners, who are the majority. If so, we should see if it will not have that counterproductive effect also disincentive the promotion of new housing for rent, further restricting its offer. A goal that claims to pursue the decree, that there are more rental housing promotions. This is also reported by the College of Architects of Catalonia, which informs us that the area of targeted housing fell in Barcelona 15,6_per_cent, while the area of targeted tertiary use – offices, commerce and industrial ships – increased by 218_per_cent. From the professional college they attribute this decrease in the promotion of housing to some normative requirements that are extended in this decree. They even attribute it to regulatory requirements that the school, at the time, endorsed and, come on, that seemed good to it, but of course, we have to review the measures that are taken what effects they have. Because the effects of public policies must be constantly reviewed, precisely in order to avoid that what is done with good intentions does not have an effect contrary to what is desired. Therefore, it does not seem to us that addressing these issues through a decree, and not from a bill, is prudent. But neither can we ask too much prudence from an exhausted, irresponsible government that has caused so much damage to Catalonia in recent years. Finally, citizens should know that the Government – you have thanked other groups – should know that the Government did not want to have Ciutadans for the drafting of this decree, even though we ask you to hold a meeting to comment on it before its adoption. He did not want to have this first group of the House, which has been the most active in the elaboration of housing proposals in this Parliament, so I will announce that – taking all that into consideration – we will vote against the decree, but in favour of its processing as a bill. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.117.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units is the turn of Congresswoman Rosa Maria Ibarra. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.118.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, we have talked a lot about the housing situation in Catalonia. It is obvious that it is essential to take steps to give out the situation, in many cases, desperate, of those people who need immediate housing. But it is also essential to plan a longer time horizon precisely to captivate this model in which we have so far lived, and, if not, to compensate for it by increasing the logger park and introducing other forms of tenance that are so far residual to our country. We agree with you, Counselor, that habitat does not have a magic formula, but that there are different actions in a cross-sectional way to find solutions. Today they are bringing us to ratification of the Emergency Measures Act to improve access to housing, a decree which, in our view, is late because the situation has become unsustainable for many people and which, moreover, after two attempts failed to what you yourself referred to. They'll allow me to refer to the first version of this decree that they're taking us to approval today. A first version that failed to demonstrate the recognition of the strategy of competition avoidance that the Generalitat has often respected the joints: passing them the responsibility without giving them resources. Nor did it involve in the measures aimed at private agents, it did not resolve how the cost of housing promotion would be assumed in a manner consistent with the qualifiable logger or the promotion of accommodation facilities, and it intended to differentiate the price of the module from the protected housing according to the different barrels of the city, or even intended to liberalize the procedure for awarding housing. Unfortunately, in some of these points, the second decree – this one that today brings us to validation – does not find any solution. It was obvious that we could not agree with that decree either in the background or in the forms, but aware of the situation, and by responsibility, we already told them that we were willing to talk about it, to make contributions that would improve the writing, and that is what we have done. In fact, I want to thank him personally and on behalf of the group for his willingness to speak of this decree, and also to all the staff of the Department to be able to speak and make contributions. Because we are aware of the need to seek immediate solutions to the urgent needs of so many families, but also to face this model change. And perhaps because the socialists are eminently municipalists, we have very much before us the great challenge of housing and everything that it entails for the assemblies. And that's why our contributions have been on the line to prevent the Generalitat from taking responsibility for housing in front of the gatherings, as we believe it has done for a long time. As much as we have to recognize that in this new decree we have not come out of everything either. The new decree calls back a tool of concertation between the two administrations. Assemblies are the first line of care for people at risk of residential exclusion; they are also those who have empty, occupied and unfinished buildings at their end, and who therefore have to face the consequences of all this. They also have the sole to be able to pull in suitable habitat. But, all in all, they can't do it alone. The new wording of the document provides for a concerted regulation program between the assemblies and the department, and also opens the possibility that they can take advantage of this concertation in the supramunicipals. For another band, the new decree removes an aspect that we thought was dangerous, which was the difference between the price of the official protection module between the barrels of the same city. Therefore, this decree advances in certain aspects, but in the absence of others, when we hear it, without resolving it. The decree provides that large and private owners with more than fifteen dwellings must offer a social logger to families who are occupying these dwellings, whether or not they have previously qualified title. You'll have to donate this alternative. I'll have to report to the municipal services on a series of points. This is a measure that clearly affects the ability to provide housing to vulnerable families and that also directly affects the occupancy of housing. And, look, we also think that the great tenors must assume their responsibility in the current situation, but at this point we want to make some considerations. The first is that we believe that you have given up leading the exit from the emergency situation of lack of suitable habitat. You, with this decree, pass the pilot to the private, already great masters or physical persons, pass the responsibility to guarantee the right of the habitation, which from the entrance corresponds to the Administration. In fact, you yourself said that this decree was up where you didn't get it. But we also believe that measures to regularize employment situations cannot be taken in isolation and out of context, because if other measures are not taken, this new opportunity will, in some cases, lead to problems for the municipality to manage the same assemblies. We've been asking for an interdepartmental table to work on the issue of occupation, counselor, and at the moment, nothing. I mean, do you know how many empty habitats there are in Catalonia? Does the government know how many of these dwellings are owned by large estates? What is the magnitude of the phenomenon of occupation? What's the profile of the people they occupy? Why are concentrated occupations produced in some municipalities in a short time, which even vary their population, their standard, and which involve dysfunctions at the time of donating municipal services? No, the government doesn't know. The government prefers to pull the pilot forward and we'll see what happens. We are also concerned about what this measure can mean in terms of workload and pressure on municipal services, which are the ones to report to us. And let's hope that the generality, in the end and in the end, has the resources to do this job that they have to do. Moreover, as we say, if this measure is not accompanied by other social movements but much more extensive – of following families, of giving them out of work... –, it will serve little. We also believe that the decree is incomplete at the time of the attack on unoccupied housing, which does not fulfill the social function. We proposed to modify the tax on empty floors, increasing the tax type, but you did not want to include it in the decree. And we've seen that the only one who does, in the measurement bill, is to vary the percentage of bonuses that those who actually decide to put their park in an accesible logue have; don't increase the type. And speaking of measuring law and assumptions, this is the mother of the eggs, counselor, if I may. Do we believe or not that housing is one of the most important and priority issues? And here we should not only look at you, we should also look at the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, which have given for good this premise, clearly insufficient in many aspects and also in habitation. And if we believe this, we need to put in the resources we need: the resources to expand the public housing stock, the resources for the provisional housing of what the decree speaks of, the resources because in those urban areas that the municipalities have and that they have to allocate to public housing, they are actually built, because if not, we will have only, but we will not have housing. Unfortunately, in the presupposition he has presented to us, there is not enough resources. There are a little more than 366_million euros, which amounted to 42.4_per_cent less than 2010, which was 636_million euros. Therefore, a presupposition that does not reverse the details and that remains very far from the 1,000_millions that we approved in this hemisphere to reverse this situation – before the deputy of Ciutadans spoke about it. And lastly, we believe that this decree should be dealt with as the bill, that it appears that initially you were willing and now you have changed your mind. It should be done because during its processing, we know that it would be extended for a few months – I must also say –, we may not have the legislature to do so, because it has already been announced that after the assumptions we will go to elections, but we understand that a processing such as the draft law would allow us to evaluate the development of the measures proposed. And, in addition, because we believe that from a point of view of legislative technology or legal certainty, there are certain points that have a better margin. Therefore, the broader work would help us to perfect it. If you don't do the right things, you may be able to generate headlines, you may be able to meet the demands of the collectivities that legitimately defend those that most need to have in place, but the measures that you undertake have a short appeal, you may have a short appeal. And it's not just that, it's just that you can even get a different and contrary result to what you're looking for. In short, Counselor, our group will refrain from the decree that we are presented with validation, with the conviction that this government, once more, escapes its responsibility for housing and does not resolutely face the needs and challenges of our country. I am convinced, counselor, that we share objectives, but politics is not only objective, but it is good legislation and above all resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, it is now the return of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.120.0	Well, here we are, a year later. One year after this government's first decree failed to face the housing emergency, counselor, that we did not drop it for electoral reasons, which was because it was not done well either in the content, in the form, or in the way of working, because if it was for electoral reasons, we have some other elections now and we are here defending this decree. So, I think I keep using the electoral arguments to mask when one thing's not good enough you don't feel it at all, especially because I think they've been after school and they've been able to do it in a different way. I believe that – we have already warned you – they have understood that there can be no decree on housing, that it wants to deal with the emergence in housing, without talking to and agreeing to it with social organizations and with social movements, together with those people who are at the front line putting up the charges, with those people who are giving the emergency response without much resources, or with those people who are putting up the business when there is a charge and the government sends them to the Mossos. Therefore, I believe that they have understood that there are different ways of doing so and that is certainly why the result of today will be different from what you were a year ago. To think that it is possible to make a modification of the ILP 24/2015, without working with the promoter group of the 24/2015– to whom we also take advantage to greet – is not to understand what the struggle for the right to housing in Catalonia was about. We believe that this year they have understood it and we are glad that it has already been possible to work differently and, for that reason, the result is different and, for that reason, the vote will also have a different result. But it is also true that we have lost a year, that we have lost a year where there have continued to be denunciations, where the backs have continued to act with impunity, and where there has not been inverted or encouraged enough the official protected habitat to lodge. So, it's been a lost year, when we're already very late. We're too late. You know that in the last two years practically there has been no housing policy in Catalonia, it has been a lost decade. And we are experiencing a housing crisis since 2007, you have given some figures, but it is worth remembering them: between 2008 and 2013 more than 98,000 mortgage execution procedures, and this added to the difficulties to pay for the logger of many families. The 68_per_cent of the denunciations the year 2018 were for non-payment of income. In addition to all the themes of infrastructure, effectively occupied with empty housing, and while the financial entities and the return funds continued to camp in the open while there were sixty-one denunciations a day in Catalonia. But, we insist, it's better late than never. We celebrate that things have been done differently. We would like to thank the consulting team for their willingness to speak, to work, to move forward, because we have a decree that this Parliament can support and be validated. We are pleased that we have been able to talk and work with the promoters of the ILP 24/2015, with the Trade Union of Llogateres, with the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona – that surprisingly now it seems that they no longer like the decree that they liked a while ago, perhaps a little electoralism on the part of the PSC there is in this change of feeling of the vote, since they have come to vote in favour and now again to abstain – with the parliamentary groups that needed to be able to work. And I think it's important, this: correcting and learning from mistakes. And now it would enter a little more into the content of the decree and why we believe that this decree does face, it does take steps to move forward in the fight against housing emergence and to change the housing model in Catalonia. We have always argued that, effectively, we need to combine short-term and medium-term emergency actions; that we need to change and move forward to a model that encourages the habitat to be logged and that puts in place for the protected habitat to be logged. This..., we believe that this decree, in this sense, takes steps and actually takes steps to reverse this situation that only 2_percent of the habitat in Catalonia is of official protection. And move on. You have placed the xifra of the '11, which is a medium, we would like to place ourselves in the xifra of the 15, which we believe is the most responsive to the needs that Catalonia can have. We do want to insist and point out that the most important measures that include this decree are measures that have been achieved thanks to the social pressure and thanks to the incidence and the work that the social organizations and the promoter group of the 24/2015 have been able to do. We believe that it is essential that they have been able to make this contribution and that some of their applications have been collected, that they are precisely some of those that we specify here: the renewal to seven years of the social logues signed to the Emperor of the Law 24/2015, those that fall now or in the future; the protection before termination of family contracts in residential exclusion in residential housing, extending in these cases the compulsory offers of social logue; the social logue of seven years for families in residential exclusion that have remained without housing, without title, after a mortgage execution, or that due to the lack of alternatives they have been able to work for families in residential exclusion that have always been without housing, without title, after a housing exercise, or because of the lack of alternatives they have been able to do so. All of us, more or less social, must respect the terms of the LAU, may come to god's contracts and fourteen years of duration. Fixing for the law the price of compulsory cessation of empty housings of benches and backs – it is essential that this. It is fundamental that there is this obligation of the great owners to give up empty floors. So far it has not been possible to do so because, indeed, there was an appeal to the Constitutional that prevented it; this appeal is no longer there, and this decree reinforces that. Now it has to apply, it has to develop. And for us, very important – as much as we understand that the Ciutadans Group may not seem like it – is the extension of the definition of "great possession" to physical persons with more than fifteen habitats. We've been pleased that there's a god, because it seems to us that he's already a big man, but we understand that in the course of a negotiation, it's not what a wish is but what he can remember. They are important measures, they are measures that can go further – the same entities recognise that there are some that have not been collected – but we believe that this is a good starting point. For what it does to the urban part of the decree, we believe that there are measures that can help to increase the protected housing park, but above all – and with this also different from the Ciutadans Group, and different, it seems, from the PSC group – we do believe that the right to housing is the responsibility of the private, it is the responsibility of the financial entities, of the facets and of the great affections. Because the one who speculates, who gets rich and negotiates with housing also has responsibility for the right to housing. Therefore, it is not only a matter of public resources, that yes, it is also a subject of political will and of obliging the great ones to be responsible for the bubble and the emergence that they have created with their actions, that they have sought to enrich themselves over the rights of people. Therefore, we believe that there are some brave aspects that the Generalitat resisted very much to incorporate, and that if it did so it was precisely because of this social pressure, as happened with the 30_per_cent to the Barcelona Assembly. One of the great changes – the counselor explained – is the permanent qualification of protected habitat. Clau, why are we investing millions of years in official protection habitats, and where are these official protection habitats? On the private market, and we're still on a 2-per-cent. Therefore, permanent qualification is key. Not only that, you can also qualify urbanically the official protection habitat to logger and attach to protected habitat reserves that a part is not logger. So far this was not possible and it is a measure that can advance by significantly increasing the protected housing stock of logger. Finally, as our group has also claimed many times, and it seems that finally it has been possible, to simplify the application of the 30_per_cent measure to the consolidated city alone eliminating, among other things, the obligation to guarantee economic viability. So those municipalities that have the political will to apply this measure of 30_per_cent will be easier than Barcelona did at the time, including the moratorium that caused many lawsuits to be present during that moratorium, and it will be easier to accept socially, politically and economically that the 30_per_cent measure has come to stay and that gives positive results. But, Counselor, we still have a lot of challenges. This decree is important, but this decree must be deployed, implemented and requires resources. For this reason, from the premise agreement, we have wanted to include the actual deployment and application of this decree, because, if it does not apply, the paper is in the right place. And how does it apply? So, as has also been said: more resources must be put in; more resources must be put in the official protection habitat of lloger. Because one thing is to mobilize only and another thing is to finance the construction of this, and because the construction of the official protection habitat of lloger remains sustainable, also to put resources to it. And it's true that in these assumptions there's a little, but it's not enough. If we want to face the housing emergency list, then yes, we have to put resources to put this table at zero. And that's why we've demanded a game that, with the help of calling, with the different tools that the Government of Catalonia has, can help reduce this list and unlock it. If we want the families not to leave their homes, we need to keep the help to the lodger, but above all, and I will go quickly, that they should be strong; that they should be strong in demanding their application, because we have seen what Azora does, that the duration of the contracts and the prohibition to increase the lodger is affected; we have seen what the Vuras fund has done, that it has the Bloc Llavors and that it is trying to ask the decree from the moment it is done. Therefore, what is needed is to give a clear message from the Government of the Government of Catalonia that it will not be possible for the grounds of speculation, that the great tenors are outside the law; that if they fail, there will be sanctions, and that it will defend the right of vulnerable families over economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.121.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the return of Mrs Maria Sirvent's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.122.0	Well, then, we don't get excited about this decree and we think it introduces measures that are minimal, but today we can say that we celebrate that these measures are in this decree thanks to the pressure and popular mobilization, which is so necessary in the conquest of rights. So I congratulate you, comrades, for getting these better ones. We cannot avoid, however, having the feeling that some of these measures are still in full play, just as there are many measures that guarantee the rights of Law 4/16, which comes from the 24/2015, because neither the Administration of Justice nor the Generality take measures because the rights that are contemplated in these laws are effective. It is true, it is necessary; it is necessary to promote extraordinary and temporary measures, but only measures of substance, force and definition; measures that pose the question of this so extensive idea that housing is a good with which to market, because without this structural approach, without this systemic approach, the difficult problem of access to housing, a right as important for the development of life as housing, will continue to feel part of the raw reality that we live in. In this sense, we want to highlight the conclusions of the First Congress of Housing in Catalonia in which the truth is that we did not see any of the spokespersons of this chamber's parliamentary group. At this meeting, the undefined moratorium on all launching processes, worthy relocations, complementing the principle of relationship, banning open-ended denunciations, banning extra-judicial denunciations and stopping working and enabling this institutional connection with the "Desokupa matons", no longer from public money to the great electrics or to the great media helping to logue and help to pay for the basic sub-administrations, because these are the undertakings, these speculators, the ones responsible for this situation. It's just a hundred and eight denunciations a day, without counting the invisible denunciations. It is 50_percent of the wages of the llars that is going to pay a right as essential as housing, a right that we should have guaranteed for the simple fact of being, for the simple fact of being a person. And until we understand this we will continue to address this problem in a wrong way and with palliative measures, but not... neither structural nor substantive. There is an indexation of the price of the logger, we agree, it is to limit the price of the logger, but what cannot be that the price of the logger is rules based on the price of the market, a price that is absolutely shameful and that condemns to precariousness the majority of the population. That's what you do in Berlin, that they have a 30 percent public park, so, look, we could still find a sense of it. But what you're doing here, when the public housing park isn't up or 2 percent, when that same decree says it's that the third sector and private entities are the ones that have to guarantee access to a social housing... which is more of a public housing park. And this decree, it doesn't fix it, it doesn't solve it; it doesn't solve it because the right of aunt and retraction can't exercise it the same as the administrations that the private entities or entities of the third sector exercise, because the right of aunt and retraction, at the joints – and whatever you know the management from a joint... – it is done for the best, and you have to start a highly bureaucratic dispatch for each piss, but in no case it can be done in an agile way as the third sector does. And we'll meet again with the same model, with the same public-private concert model. Now we want to turn housing into another of these social services that they offer themselves with which they determine entities that they do business. And it's all right. Mr. Calvet has already explained many times that he defends this model, but we do not defend this model. And it's also true that the decree introduces better. And, look, we're voting for it, because we understand that these better ones are needed. But we need structural and systemic changes. Has anyone talked about the negative externalities of tourism respecting the right to housing? Instant closing plate of tourist flats, expansion of the hotel moratoria, elimination of the hotel IBI, reduction of crucibles, non-expansion of the airport, reduction of entry of tourists and limitation of shops for tourists in the Pla de commerce. This is asking for the First Congress of Housing in Catalonia. And it turns out that the counselor who presents us this decree also defends a policy regarding the tourism model that has brutal negative externalities on the right to housing. And that doesn't seem to be what we're looking at. For another band, what else did the people of the First Congress of Housing in Catalonia ask of us? Moratorium and expansion of the expropriation and agility assumptions of the process. It is that, when we ask for the expropriation of the empty floors, we are not asking as if we were Martians or as if they were from the other world; it is that the Spanish State expropriated Rumasa, was managing for a long time a Loewe shop of "luxury bags, because it turns out that this was of general interest. But now it turns out that the people are homeless, that this unjust and absurd system, therefore, allows a lord of ninety-two years the other day to be found with Brimo in front of his house; allows the Bages PAH to have received a fine of twenty-one thousand euros on the basis of the law bite..., that here all with great proclamations denounce, because it violates the fundamental rights, but it turns out that the Bages PAH received a fine of twenty-one thousand euros on the other day because the people were there defending a denunciation. And it seems that the Generality, therefore, does not have so many gain or put so many energies to fine and pursue speculators, because, if we lay the half, the half of energies, in chasing speculators that the energies that we aim to criminalize the veins that every day are protecting the right to habitat leaving the body, the assurance, the assurance, that things are going to be very and very different. And, mirin, what was the agenda of the First Congress of Housing in Catalonia about? He was talking about popular self-organization, popular self-organization before the inefficiency of the institutions to guarantee a right they should have recognized for the simple fact of being people, I repeat, for a question of dignity. These conclusions, the ones before the popular self-organisation, the people who organize themselves in the street, the ones that ask us to pose in front of the collective property to the private property and that limit the private property, are the conclusions that we should take as a reference in order to begin to develop profound measures on the private property, limiting it and really aging because everyone enjoys the right to housing and access to basic sub-administrations, regardless of their economic capacity, regardless of the family in which they were born, whether this family has more or less assets, because certainly many of those who are here have not experienced this situation; others may have experienced it. And they know perfectly well that being born in one family or another, having more or less economic resources, is what makes one able to access a right as essential to the development of life as housing. So, before private property, collective property. So, before the purchasing system to access the housing as the only stable form, we have many other rules: the cessation of use, we can talk about social loggers, we can talk about other ways that today are not promoted either by the Administration, nor by the communication media, nor by justice. The only thing we see is a constant stigma for those who want to guarantee a right as essential as the right to habitat. Mirin, from this very convention we are told that public floors can only be used for public logging, as is common sense. But it's that we've been unwelcome – we've been unwelcome – the little public housing park we had. For another band, the privatization processes of this public park should be prohibited; we should regulate the prohibition that public parks should be privatized, and we should municipalize the administration of the entire public housing park: public floors only for public housing, only public and non-private cities, and rightly so, it cannot be that housing and urban soil follow. And, therefore, we demand the immediate township of the city alone. And maybe you now seem like a bogiery to this idea, but if we don't do that, every day the situation will be harder to guarantee a right as important as the right to housing. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.123.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.124.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, could sum up my intervention saying: "All the contrary of what they have just felt in the last few minutes is what we come to defend here, and with that I could give my intervention to the end, but I will try to be a little more creative and therefore give arguments more solid than this simple phrase, right? We've got to get started. You're obvious. Is there a problem with housing? Yes, it's obvious; there's a problem with housing. And the problem has been mutant, it has been variable; with the crisis, therefore, it has been varying the intensity of the problem, and now, concretely now, there is an intense, important problem, in the case of the logger. That's obvious, isn't it? With some figures you see immediately, all the knowledge we already have about the evolution of markets. Between 2013 and 2019 the prices of the loguers have risen by 50_per_cent, while wages..., therefore, have been approximately around 4.2_per_cent. Therefore, this has driven a lot of people out of this market. And the key to the whole question I think is in the same intervention as the counselor; say – and we have all said, and they also say – "The public park is insufficient, isn't it? Therefore, the problem exists and you have come up with solutions. They laid down a first decree, which they withdrew because they did not have a majority in parliament. They set up a _second decree, which fell into vote at the time of validation. Now they're planting a third decree, which looks like you approved. But you went the easy way. Not just you, huh? , there are other administrations that also go by the way we understand that it's easy, that it's the way of regulation. And we understand that this is not the right way, right? You also said: "During the crisis, there was a construction sector sack that affected the housing offer. Indeed, the construction sector at the time it is sacked, so it is contracted. But we don't have to pay back at the time of the crisis to see the construction sector's hoards; we have a more recent example, we have it during the past year, where the Barcelona Assembly imposes an obligation on the promoters to build a 30_per_cent of social housing. Consequences of this regulation, consequences of this obligation: a sacseig of the sector that affects the offer the housing – what you said, counselor– ; a 55_per_cent less increase of the construction in Barcelona, while at the joint of Espanya grows an 8,7_per_cent. That is to say, in a market favourable to the beginning of new constructions, Barcelona is contracted and caucus of 55_per_cent. What does that mean? That what is meant to be a solution is to add a problem: to add to the housing gap, to add to the social housing gap, to take care of the prices and the final conclusion – and to give it to us the same Barcelona Assembly – is that they do not get a single hit on the Barcelona Social Housing Exchange, right? So, this is evidence, huh? , that regulation does not solve the problem, as it is – and we have the opportunity to talk about it when you presented the assumptions of your department in committee – the fact that the need for resources to deal with the aid to the loguer has to go up. We have actually moved from 50_million in 2012 to 130 in the guild, and, obviously, the situation of guild is very different from the situation of 2012 and, therefore, the need for help to deal with the need to have decreased, whenever there have been accompanied by policies that favour access to housing. The problem is that the policies that have taken place have not helped to improve access to housing, but surely, in any case, and in some cases, what has been caused is to make access to housing even more difficult. You know, but I keep reminding them: we're not supporters of peer control, we're not supporters, because we understand that it's..., in general, huh? – and I think it's quite a shared thesis for many economists, isn't it? – in general, the price control that ends up having an impact on the offer, because it is precisely disincentive to place the habitats in the logue, because it limits the access; but in those cases that they do so, what causes it is to reduce the investment in maintaining the same habitats, disincentive the rehabilitations and, if they allow me, it also encourages a certain black market around the habitat, which is not in absolute desirable. It is not given the circumstances to regulate the price, because we could say: « Listen'm, it is that, if the housing lie in the hands of a few controlling the market, it would be necessary to regulate the price of the housing. Yes, it certainly is; but the problem is that it is not in the hands of a few, nor that we are either legislating or continually legislating for these few. Most landowners are small landowners, and in most cases they are not big investors, nor are they just investors, but they are small landowners who have in their bed they have in their stalls to supplement their pensions on the day it is jubilin. And that's the reality. So, to all these people... clearly, and you, as time went by, they narrowed the circle, didn't they? : First were the banks, then the funds of reversal, then the great lords, now we arrive to the physical people who have more than fifteen habitats. So, the little owners see that the circle opens and that each time it goes closer to their situation, don't they? And, therefore, we insist, we disagree with this type of policy. To the decree that present us with the possibilities of expropriation – it is no longer just the use, now it is the domain– ; legitimate – legitimate – the occupation without title, in the sense that they give them priority before those people who can be on lists of social services waiting for a habitation of logger, and the message that they are launching is: "The one who occupies will have priority. Listen to me, we don't share this path, this solution. And neither do we share – and that can be more questionable, huh? – permanent habitat protection, we don't share it, there are elements that discourage it – can be questionable, huh? – there are elements that discourage it. One, limiting the price of protection habitat at certain times, what ends up happening is that there has been black market, there are overpayments, on one side, and on the other side there is deterioration of protection habitat. So it's questionable, but we don't share it. Let's solve, n'han – solutions, n'han. The solutions go to increase the offer, make social housing, rehabilitate, encourage rehabilitation..., already directly or indirectly. It was also mentioned with the presentation of the assumptions: the Barley was an important tool to encourage the rehabilitation of many habitats in nuclei that were degraded; and on the part of private individuals, it was not necessary to do so the Administration. The Administration is the only one that does the right environment, and the privates are encouraged to rehabilitate their habitats. I mean, these policies were uncertain. In short, to encourage, not to force, to create new housing for social dialogue, and to do so directly, which they do not do, to do so directly or with public-private collaboration. I put it this way: with public-private collaboration, which I think we can agree with, but what you're doing is forcing the private to do what you're unable to do. In short, I think there are more than enough arguments to vote against the validation of this decree, but I think more than you have given us another argument; you say: "If it is to be dealt with as the draft law, what we would be doing is having a partial view of the housing policies, then the decree that you are bringing here is a partial view of the housing policies. Therefore, this is already the argument defined because we vote 'no to validation and, moreover, we will vote favorably on processing as the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr José Rodríguez. When you want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.126.0	Thank you, President. I'm going to take a political picture first of why we're with a decree of this type. We have heard that housing in Spain is, for many years, a good speculation and is not a right. It is also because housing policies many times, without the intention of the legislator – or we have to believe this – have encouraged it. The down payment on sale, the market ate it, absorbed it, and donated it of course, and for the only one it served is to inflate the purchase price. The release of the soil made by the PP and the obligation to finance the joints led to the creation of a speculative cylinder. Policies based on social housing for sale have prevented administrations from creating a publicly available housing bag of logger that benefits, at least, from the expansion of the bottle. We've done it badly, for a long time, and almost all of them. And the beneficiaries of this have failed to follow the banks, the great lords, the speculators and the backs. And the injured? The majority of citizens. I want to paraphrase the Homrani Councillor and the Dolors Bassa Councillor, who say that "the best preventive social policy is a quality job and access to affordable housing, and it is clear that a part of the two friends of these preventive social policies has failed. Therefore, we have the housing emergency table saturated and millions of impoverished people for the priests of the loggers. The 2007 we tried to wake up with a housing law that was very advanced and that wanted to derive the efforts to the affordable logger and rehabilitation. But it was late and it was not possible to take advantage of the expansion period of the economy. Crisis, detailed and, at last, an interference in the laws that was trying to push this Parliament on behalf of the Constitutional Court have paralysed the ability to iron housing policies in this country. Some of Europe's cities and countries knew how to do their dues; the fact that they didn't have a state that the years against it helped. We've had a state that has made the city's students bury in stone and made housing a purely speculative asset. But I also want to remind you that the Catalan centreright certainly did not believe in housing policies or market intervention, nor did it know when it did. And we find ourselves here today, where the speculators now want to do business again; in this case, through the loguers. They want to continue to impoverish us all to make and give out the benefits of investors who don't even know where to stay the benefits of previous speculations. And this decree, even though it can't reverse forty years of political housing ills or obviate a state that continues to encourage this speculation, gives us some tools to fight the situation. I'll quote six. This decree forces those who are very willing to offer social support to people who live in the housing of their property who are in a vulnerable situation, whether they own it or not. The decree clarifies the definition of empty housing, generates legal certainty and allows for intervention in the joints and the Generality. The decree – third point – seeks to fight against the asymmetry between who lodges and who needs an obligatory habitation to publish, together with the price offer, the reference price in which the habitats of the area are located. Fourth: the decree makes it possible to impose many coercive measures if an unoccupied habitat is kept unjustifiably more than two years old and facilitates the forced execution of this, even in appropriation of the domain. Five: this decree improves the generality's rights to mortgage execution by facilitating the creation of this publicly available housing logger bag for housing emergencies. This type and retraction, moreover, is extended to and after transmissions, and not to the first. And the system is the expansion of the housing qualification, to prevent this qualification from being absorbed in the market and all the investment that the public sector has made in nothing. This is a change to understand that the right is not to possess and accumulate habitats, that the right is not to speculate with a basic good such as housing or bury the heritage in stone. That is to say, the right is to be able to access a suitable habitat at reasonable cost. And in this change we fully accompany the Government and the Department of Territories. Not only are we: social entities have supported this decree, they think it is positive, they are very happy with some of the measures included. Of course, I just want to make a point. We will never make a patrimony of social movement. I mean, the day they presented the conclusions of the Habitating Congress at least this deputy was in this House voting motions. So... I think that a lot of the housing porters were here working in Parliament, that's where I think it's up to us and we've been put by the citizens. In any case, housing policies cannot be left in a decree; it is one more tool than we need to reverse forty years of political ills of housing and speculative depredation. We share the advisor's willingness to update and recast housing legislation, and we offer to run around and stand by him to help him. Among other things, this group has presented an initiative to call on the Congress to amend the law of the Sareb, which we hope can be debated in this Parliament as soon as possible. We hope and desire that the Department of Justice may present the price limitation decree of the logger, or value that in these own plenarys we discuss the assumptions that include a significant increase, up to 430_millions, in housing policies. In the background, as the counselor says, and there is a lot of agreement, an important part of housing policies is creating this public housing bag to logger. I would like to recall, however, that all that we do will always be laminated and limited by policies of a state that does not want to change the concept of housing, that it continues to consider it a speculative good and that, governments that govern Moncloa, will continue to hinder these policies of housing. The Spanish deep state, if anything is found is controlled by the great banks, by the great energetics and the Florentino Pérez back. At the heart of all the great enterprises that live from the economy of the BOE and that support the informal power structure, and also to a large extent from the institutions of the Spanish State, all these forces want the habitation to follow a speculative good, do not follow a right. And until we get rid of this establishment in '78, housing will hardly cease to be a problem for our country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.127.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Antoni Morral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.128.0	Deputies, deputies, councillors, citizens you follow, who accompany us to the room today, people of the PAH, councillor Calvet, almost good late everyone. As has been seen, in fact this decree can be voted in favour and criticized harshly, right? That is to say, this decree, according to my perception, responds to a government that is very aware of the size of the problem, that is also very aware of the economic resources, human, competitive, to deal with this problem. And from this perspective, it's a very strong decree, it's an ambition decree, it's a decree that they claim... and I'm relieved... because the councilman has made a detailed statement of the measures of the decree. Therefore, I will focus on what seems to us to be those elements that are politically most relevant to what it does to this decree. And the first is that it's an ambitious decree to reverse a trend. A trend that is considered worrying, that is considered for all of us the housing emergency, and that demands a commitment from government and also governance. Therefore, it is a decree that, in this sense, may seem to some at a time, and others, as has also been seen, the mass, but it is a decree that is at the limit of what at these times can be done to try to reverse a housing emergency situation that we have in the habitation. And in this sense, the situation is... the diagnosis we have with the problem is very clear, that is to say, the issue, even though it has been reduced a little bit, which is the denunciation, remains an important scourge. The pressure there is on the demand that the Emergencies prisons are in is kept intense. It's an important problem in the municipalities. And this responds to the economic conditions that at these times a lot of people live. Some data: The Third Sector Table says that Catalonia has five hundred and a thousand people who are listed, for their resources, in the poor. And now it's not for weeks, the Metropolitan Area has made public what is the quality of life study of the metropolitan area and it tells us that 22.8_percent of the population of the metropolitan area is in the outburst of the poor. People who work, but not up at the end of the month. And from this percentage, of the 22,8_per_cent– which is very important to the metropolitan area– which is found in the outburst of the poor, 14_per_cent has difficulties to pay for housing, whether to lodge or mortgage. This is the current vulnerability situation, which any change in the economic situation can accentuate in a very important way the problem of housing. And, in this sense, this decree tries, in a brave and ambitious way, to face this situation. Conscious, too, that... And here the self-criticism would come from a lot of governments back. We would all like to have a public housing and logger park of 15_per_cent. And as long as it is, and as long as it is. But here, anyway, why isn't it today? We should make a self-criticism, let's say, of all the governments of this chamber, also of the Spanish State, and how the issue of housing in this state has been handled when it is a constitutional right. Because it's a fundamental right. So, we got here... maybe we should be in jail a lot, for this, let's just say, right? I'm closing the parenthesis of this joke. Therefore, this is a decree that has been designed with ambition to reverse this situation, as I said, and incorporates, with this will, a systemic look at the problem, aware that housing is not a more sectoral area, than it is, years on the contrary: it is in the spring of the bones of the welfare system of society. It is a fundamental right centered on social policies, but also economic, obviously, in urbanistics, because in housing policies there are many areas linked to income, property rights, social policies, urbanistic management... And this decree attempts to influence all this futility, let us say, of themes that influence housing policies. Wants to guarantee or contain logger prices. Ambitions, let's say, object having very limited skills in this sense. It wants to force – or let's say more leuger –, encourage and encourage owners to put their empty habitats on the market. He wants to avoid the speculation of the great tenors. Wants to change urban planning because it is possible to increase the offer of public housing and logger. Increase resources for the months of emergence and acquisition of habitat through storm and retreat and cooperation between institutions, especially joint ventures. Updating the hundreds of empty habitats and managing it. That is to say, it is an ambition decree, in this sense, that it has the ambition to reverse a problem that the same counselor has told us that the problem will continue, because we are very backward. But this decree is trying to make front, face, with all the tools that are available, to try to correct this situation. That is why it is essential that this decree has as much strength as possible. And because you have as much strength as you can, you need the most consent. And this has also been the will of the Government and Councillor Damia Calvet. For this reason, perhaps a few months later, but months later than welcome is this time, because it has devoted itself to searching for dialog, negotiation and consent in the content of this decree, not only in the political and institutional land, also in the assemblies, but also in the social land. Therefore, it is a decree that emerges with a strong enough force to be a useful tool of change. That consensus has been essential. Now, it's true that one of the limitations that can have are resources. And in this sense we have to say... we have to say that the government is putting all the resources it has in its abyss, but that, in this sense, the government of the State should help. Because so far they don't do it, years against it. Years on the contrary. I'm setting an example. Although Catalonia has exclusive skills in housing policies, the State has an instrument called the State Housing Plan, which defines transfers of resources included in different communities. Resources that, for another band, are only part of those that actually transfer Catalonia to the State, that is to say, less than Catalonia brings to the State. This plan, in 2009, was endowed with 131_million euros for Catalonia, and in 2019, two years later, it had 52_million euros. See that the problem has increased and resources have decreased. I, for what it does to the proposals of resources coming from the state aid plan for payments and aid to the loguer, that arrive also from the state plan, in this case, the State has contributed 37,7_million euros, year 2019, and they have dedicated, here in Catalonia, 97,7_million euros, three times more with suitable resources. The Generality is tripled, in this sense, the resources provided by the State. In many other essential housing policies, the Generalitat has assumed one hundred_percent of the cost of policies that are non-existent in the rest of the State, such as tanteig and retraction policies, from aid to emergency prisons, in all of which are social aid. Therefore, in this sense, they are resources that the Generality provides and that are not considered as the proposal by the State. See, the existing State Housing Plan allocates a 14_percent of its resources to Catalonia. When Catalonia accounts for 22_percent of the denonations, 19_percent of the Gross Domestic Product of the State, and adds 16_percent of the population. In short, the needs are much higher than they are years and more important than other points in the State, and the contributions are lower, and the same as in other areas of the State where the pressure of demand is lower. This is an example of the effects of the cotilla we have on the management of housing for what it does to the resources and for what it does to the public policies of this country, and which has a direct impact on the quality of life of people, especially the most vulnerable. In this sense, the requirement also that one of the adversities that this decree will surely find is the own resistances of the change, the resistances of those who want to speculate with the great affections that want to speculate with the habitation. We have to look...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.129.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.130.0	... the resistances of the Constitutional Court and the Government of the State. On the contrary, that we have enough help for this decree to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.131.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.132.0	...to be the most efficient and... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.133.0	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the vote. [[Long break.]] Let's get to the vote. As you know, the affirmative votes are in favour of the validation of the decree, and the negative votes are in favour of the derogation. The vote begins. The decree was ratified by 74 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. I am now responding, once validated, to ask the chamber if any parliamentary group wants to process the decree as the bill. Yeah? Therefore, we shall have to proceed to the vote. They know that the votes in favour are in favour of processing as a bill of law and, the negative, in the opposite sense. The vote begins. Processing as a bill has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day... [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Question to the Government on the protection of minors at school]] [[300-00230/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the protection of minors at school, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, the deputy Sonia Sierra has a word. When he wants to. [[Long break.]] They ask the deputies and the public that if they have to abandon the hemicicle they will do it quickly and quietly. Thank you. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, guests. According to a report by the Barça Foundation which was published in June last year, one_of_each_four students claims to have been subjected to school harassment in primary schools in Catalonia. This figure is very similar to what I said four years ago from this very rostrum, and that is to say that time has passed, but we have not made any progress in the fight against school harassment despite the fact that Citizens tabled a motion to end this scourge, which was approved unanimously. I would like to be able to offer official data, but we do not have one, even though transparency is essential in order to put an end to school harassment. So my first question is: Why do they not provide official data on school harassment? Look, school harassment causes real damage and is devastating to people who suffer it. About 55_per_cent of victims suffer from depression, 54_per_cent have symptoms of post-traumatic stress – such as nightmares, anxiety, insomnia and panic – and 53_per_cent have a negative self-image. A government that really cared about the well-being of its citizens would take steps to put an end to this scourge instead of dedicating itself to hanging protocols. And, as I told you, time is passing, harassment does not cease, and not only that, but it is taking new forms. "Children no longer stick in the yard, insulting themselves on the mobile. This is the holder who was given the news of the ILP promoted by the director of a Catalan institute, of an institute here, in Tarrasa, to prohibit the use of mobiles in the centers. This Catalan director explains that, precisely in the most marginal centres, mobiles generate conflict because normally people with fewer resources do not know how to make the right use of technologies. This lack of legislation, unlike, for example, in France or the Community of Madrid, makes it very difficult to solve the problems of inappropriate use of mobile phones and leaves directors and teachers unarmed in relation to the Data Protection Act, or the use of unauthorized applications for minors. It is clear that the digital world is a reality inherent in our lives and that with it we have to work and that teachers have to teach students how to get the most out of different applications. But for that they need clear regulations that protect them and, above all, that protect students. The mobile in class ends up generating conflicts when, for example, a teacher sees a student doing inappropriate use in hiding, conflicts that could be avoided with clear regulations, as we have, for example, in the Community of Madrid. On the other hand, if it is already difficult for teachers to detect cases of school harassment, it is even more difficult to detect cases of cyberbullying and it is therefore urgent to take measures to protect students. What do you intend to do about it, Mr Bargalló? And I hope that now, when I come out here, then, do not recite to me a retahíla of protocols hung on websites, because I already tell you that most teachers do not know that they exist, nor do they serve at all, as the figures I have just given show. And above all I hope that when I come out here, do not answer me or do not answer me alone, but above all answer all those students who are suffering from school harassment. Let him answer those families who see how every day their children grow up with a stomachache so that they don't have to go to school, to that school that has become hell for them. Counselor, answer all those desperate families, who see that nothing is done to help their children and that, in many cases, they end up changing schools while the aggressors stay so calm waiting for their next victim, because, moreover, the fact of not preventing, of not ending school harassment is also harmful to the harassers, because they end up seeing reinforced their behaviors, their intimidatory practices and may end up reproducing these kinds of behaviors throughout their lives. As they explain in Nace, which is an association that fights school harassment, the ideal would be not to have to apply any kind of protocol, because the necessary preventive measures have been taken and the harassment has not come about. What steps will you take, Mr. Counsellor, to prevent school harassment, so that it does not occur? The truth is that in Citizens we are very concerned about the subject of school harassment and we are very concerned, in particular, about the subject of school harassment to students of the LGTBI collective, because the figures are frightening. More than half of the students in the LGTBI group claim to have been victims of physical or psychological aggression, I repeat, more than half. Mr. Counselor, what are you going to do to curb this barbarity? Because we will agree that with these figures something is being done very badly. And another collective that is also severely harassed by school harassment is that of students with autistic spectrum disorder. 60_per_cent of students with autism have suffered school harassment and surely this data is related to another that is terrible and is that students..., people with autism have a suicide rate of 12_per_per_cent higher. What are your concrete measures to end harassment of people with autism? I think it would be very good if the Catalan education system stopped discriminating against those who could stay and eat in the school canteens of public and concerted schools, which is not the case today. And, to continue, it would also be very good to recognize the great work done by schools specializing in autism, rather than threatening to close them, as sanchism and populism are doing. [[Greetings.]] Look, all pupils have the right to attend school on equal terms and it cannot be that in Catalonia students are discriminated against and that is what is happening in Catalonia with children with autism: discrimination, institutional discrimination with all the letters. And another issue that we are very concerned about is whether students are really protected when their families leave them in schools, because the end of last year was marked by two completely unacceptable events. On the one hand, a girl was allegedly assaulted by her teacher and, on the other, Platforma per la Llengua recognized, at a press conference, that she had dedicated herself to spying on the students at the time of the courtyard to see what language they spoke. In the case of the minor assault, the Department of Education hastened to file the matter quickly, ruling out any kind of assault, despite the fact that there is a medical part of the injury. And now justice is investigating, because you have been unable to protect that girl and the girl has had to change school. Once again it is the assault that ends up changing center and has changed center because it panicked to meet that teacher in the hallways. By the way, she and her brothers have changed. Mr. Counselor, have you or someone on your team had the delicacy of getting in touch with the family to see how the little one is? Because as far as we know, the family learned from the press that they had opened and closed the file, because neither were they able, to have the delicacy to inform them of the proceedings. How is it possible for a girl to be assaulted at school and be the one to switch centers? How is it possible that a teacher who has to testify on charges of alleged physical abuse could be misled lightly? How could they quickly rule out ideological motivation, even though the alleged attack occurred just after painting a Spanish flag? How is it possible that you, neither you nor anyone on your team, are concerned about a girl who today continues to suffer from nightmares from that unfortunate event? Is the yellow link preventing them from seeing reality? And as far as the case of spying on students is concerned, it is clear that a private entity cannot be in the courtyards of schools seeing in which language they speak and the most obvious proof of this is that they themselves, at a press conference, explained that they had deceived teachers and directors so that they could get into school at the time of the courtyard. And this hasn't happened in one center or two or three, it's been 50. There have been seven hundred students spied on by these people without any kind of scruple or ethics. Therefore, my question is, Mr. Counselor, what steps have you taken to ensure that these people are not going to put a foot again, that they are not going to approach the door of Catalan schools? Because families have to be able to quietly leave their children in schools with the guarantee that they won't be spied on, we'll all agree. Have you bothered to find out why the Platform for Language tricked – according to your own words at a press conference – teachers and directors? Because, man, if you're going to fool the teachers and the directors you're responsible for, something has happened, shall I say? Do you have a list of the centers affected, or do you have absolutely the same in which centers you have passed? We've tried to do it and we haven't been able to do it. Do you know what academic background the authors of this pseudostudy had, if any? And, above all, did they have the accreditation to be able to interact with minors at court time? Mr Bargalló, I hope that now that you come out here you will answer all the questions I have asked you, do not start saying that I have asked more questions than you can answer. Please answer the questions, skip the introduction, which has already done so many times, and, above all, I hope that you will be committed to ensuring protection for all Catalan students, which today we see is not happening in the schools of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.135.0	To answer, the word has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Bargalló, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.136.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, in the first part of your question I thought: "Shut up, we'll hear from you today! I thought, "Look, they're worried about education! I thought: "Ostres, they have changed! I said to his final part: "Well, let's go back! I'll start at the end. I've explained this to you so many times from the Language Platform, I've explained it so many times, that I'm convinced that you've understood it, but let me see that you don't understand it. Because it's impossible that I don't understand. It's so impossible that I don't understand that, listen, if I don't explain it to him again. Because I've explained it so many times, and it's so insulting that I insist on it, that it's so easy to hear that I don't think I'm wasting my time explaining it again because he won't understand it either. And if I don't understand, it's because I don't want to hear it. And that's it. And the rest of the groups have understood. The rest of the Members have understood that. So, listen, I insist, I insist. The case of Terrassa. The case of Terrassa, we haven't talked to you either. Terrassa's case has also explained to us, now she's in a legal situation, so I'm not going to be there either. We did talk to the family. Obviously, we've talked to the family. And to the family we made various proposals. She sorted one, which is not the one we prefer, which is the one to change center. Which is not the one we preferred, but it was the family tria. And we'll do what justice says at this point. We went over the case and explained it to him. And we'll do what justice says. And you know that, besides, there are elements, more than you have explained, and that, in this case, I will not put the table down, but there are elements more than you have explained, and that in this case I will not put the table down. But we're going... the one that started and the one that I think, plus, it was phonetic. There are rapes in the schools. There's rapes at the company. And there are rapes to the society that is reproduced in the schools. Of course, the schools are not a side event. There are rapes of a lot of types, of a lot of types, in the city and there are no rapes in the schools. You've focused on a type of violence, minor to minor. The one from minor to minor. Because it's the violence that you, in your first part, have dealt with. With minor to minor rapes, a first point, a first point. The minor who assaults is also a victim. The minor assaulted is a double victim, but a minor assaulting is also a victim, and as such we must also treat him. It's not a movie of good or bad, the cyberassembly, just. Cyberassembly is more than a movie of good or bad, aggressors or assaults. It's more than that. And it's true that the easy solution and the solution that we don't like is the center shift. But sometimes it's the solution the family wants. You say what we're doing? You donated data. I could donate many more, harder and less hard, but it's not a data issue. An attitude, a rape, it's hard for yourself, not because there's a lot more to it. A girl or a girl assaulted is a victim not because there are many more. She, by herself, is a victim. And you say, what do we do? The Pla against rapes in schools. What's wrong? Protocols.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course there are protocols, it's that without protocols you can't act. Without protocols you can't act. If there isn't, they'd claim that there are protocols. Of course there are protocols. Is the only tool protocol? No, obviously: prevention – prevention –, action in case of rape, accompanying the victim. It is the three stages of action: prevention, action in the event of rape, accompanying the victim. Prevention: the Coeduca't course that has begun incarnate, of affective and sexual formation for all the students – of affective and sexual formation for all the students. Prevention: the creation of figures in each territorial service dedicated specifically to training and performance accompanying the centres. Prevention: formation of teachers and families. Action in case: forceful action – forceful action – I always know, I insist, that in the case you have exposed you are underage, knowing whenever you have to get acquainted with the Juvenile Prosecutor's Office, that it is the one that dictates measures and gives precautionary measures to which we must follow. And we are concerned, for example, that the Office of the Prosecutor for Minors, that the Office of the Prosecutor in general, for example, does not ask, in cases of majors of age, that majors of age are sentenced for acts of violence against minors, to the penalty, not to be added to the disqualification to exercise work of contact with minors, which is not done. The penalty follows the Penal Code, but it does not save this petition, which obliges us to readmit, for example, this person once completed the compliment of his sentence, because she is not disabled in dealing with minors. What else do we do? And you have addressed the issue of cyberassembly, which we are working on specific measures of cyberassembly, which is one of the types of violence among minors that is given to schools. There's rape in the mensadors among minors. Violence in the pati among minors. They are the three spaces in which violence is given among minors: the beggar, the duck and in the virtual world. There is another type of violence in the classroom or in the wards that is not usually among minors, when she is a woman. What do we do? Miri, the prohibition is not – the prohibition is not. First, because in those places where the cyberassembly has been banned, it has not lowered the cyberassembly. Neither France nor Madrid. Second, because prohibition is a measure... it is a measure that in the world of education must always be the last possible, because education does not prohibit. You don't have a ban like a ban. You don't have a ban like a ban like a ban. Then, because there is another pedagogical reality, which is that many centers use mobile technology to use their learning processes – many centers use mobile technology to use their learning processes – and they reward them! Not the department: institutions. Mobile has a range of awards to schools that use mobile technology. Because, besides, boys and girls use mobile technology in their lives, and we can't make school alien to their lives. School is also his life and at school he has to do what he does to his life. Because we can't make school a world apart. If school is a world apart, don't teach, don't educate. Those of us who saw school situations in which school was a world apart from life know it perfectly. We need to educate in how to use mobile technology; we need to educate in how to serve it, and in this too the Department's Digital Culture Plan. Are we worried about school rapes? Yeah. Do we act? Yeah. In a slippery way? - I insist, they're smaller, huh? One another. And they have a few rights and there's some acting and there's a non-advertising. There is nothing more difficult than advertising cases, and putting the minor, the assault or the aggressor, before society and before the media. Sometimes someone does it out of interest, but we also have to ensure that cases are not advertised, too. I insist that, in the case of minors, everyone has rights, and the high responsibility is to work with everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.137.0	Thank you. In order to make the reply, the deputy has a new turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.138.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Bargalló, you can use your usual prejudices and disqualifications against Citizens as much as you want. And you can also invent excuses not to answer questions you don't like, which is what you always do. But the reality is that more and more Catalan families are willing to defend the right to protect their children and more and more Catalan families are less willing to tolerate indoctrination in classrooms. And therefore, forty families of a Tarragona institute have sued the Ombudsman for the alleged lack of protection of their children in the centre. And, of course, they have had to go to the Ombudsman, to Madrid, because it is obvious that everyone takes for granted that the Sindic de Greuges is not going to do anything to defend minors – he is too busy traveling for free to see the final of the Champions. And, look, the truth is that forty families in a municipality of just over three thousand inhabitants are so many families. Families that denounce, for example, that at that center many teachers boast of being independenceists and that there carries yellow ties to the director. Families who report that a teacher has dedicated herself to speaking ill of Citizens in their classroom or families who have also explained that on the day of the October 17th strike all students had to listen for megaphony – whether or not they support the strike – insults against our country and separatist proclamations. A centre where students can carry stellates freely, as explained by the Union d'Students in a manifesto, but not Spanish flags. But well, we've already seen how a girl ended up painting a Spanish flag in a Terrassa school, because it seems that freedom of expression is only for separatists. Counselor, what have you done with regard to those forty families? Have you been worried about talking to them? Have you been concerned about the discomfort you must feel, such as going to Madrid to report to the Ombudsman? If he hasn't, he's got a chance today. Is he going to tell you something from here? Are you going to stand by him? Because, according to your own statements, you rely on the direction of the center and the inspection. But what about the families, Mr. Bargalló? Do you trust families or do you believe that they have gone to denounce because they have, because they have invented everything? What about the students? Do you trust the students? Because, of course, these families report from what their children tell them at home, which has happened in school. I mean, the students you should protect, and it seems like you don't care at all, because you don't even mention them. I sincerely doubt that you will show support to the families and the students, but I, from here, do want to show all the support of Citizens to those brave families and all those students who are not willing to let themselves be trampled on. [[Greetings.]] And these families have denounced this situation not only to the Ombudsman, but also to the Data Protection Agency, because they passed the survey to second, third and fourth students of the ESO with questions such as: "How far do you identify with the independence movement? Mr. Counsellor, do you think it relevant that 13 - year - olds should be asked about their political sympathies? And although the instructions given by the University of Lérida, which is the author of this survey, indicate that the survey is voluntary, we know that the teachers forced them to do it and even threatened to leave the students without a yard. [[Widow's remorse.]] A survey that, no matter how much you say it was anonymous, the reality is that they had to fill it with their personal data. This would be tremendous under any circumstances, but it is absolutely unacceptable when it comes to minors. And the worst is that it has happened not only in this center of Tarragona, but in many other centers in different provinces. And in the case of the ESO second students, neither did the University of Lérida, but it is the same... – well, this or it is false..., this is not the Territorial Services of Catalonia, because here it says that it has to happen to the ESO second students. In this case, it does not serve only their consent and the consent of their parents or legal guardians is needed. Were these permits granted? Because otherwise it would violate section 7 of the Data Protection Act. How many centers has this survey been conducted, Mr. Counsellor? Because you said you had already stopped, but at that time it was being done, for example, in Balaguer. Look, Mr. Counsellor, unfortunately the Catalan school does not stand out in PISA, in any positive indicator and yet it stands out in others that are terrible to me. Although Spain is the OECD country with the greatest sense of belonging to the school, Catalan students are the ones who feel the most out of place in the classroom, those who say they are the most alone and those who have the most difficulty in liking their peers. That's not what I'm saying. This says PISA edition after edition. As you fill your mouths saying that the Catalan school is the only one that guarantees social cohesion, the reality is very different. The reality is that the harassment figures are terrible, that much of the students, according to PISA, do not feel comfortable in it and that many families are beginning to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.139.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.140.0	... to mobilize, to denounce the barbarities that are happening in Catalan classrooms. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.141.0	It's the turn of the counselor's reply. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.142.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, honourable Member, you finally said what you wanted to say and you took up the subject you wanted to raise. I'm already a stranger. Miri, I'll read you an appointment. He says: "For a long time, our teaching centers have been trapped for harmful ideologies, for the reversal of values and for people who hate our colors and our anthem. Do you know who accused the school of indoctrination in this text? Mr. Bolsonaro. Do you know who has similar texts? Mr. Salvini. Do you know who says the same thing? Mr. Trump. It's the world's right-wing law of arrest that accuses the school of indoctrination. And you copy it. [[Greetings.]] It's here. They copy it. Listen, it's the world's most responsive right of arrest that accuses him of schooling with the same arguments and the same words, of indoctrination. Mr. Bolsonaro proposed that students film without their teachers to denounce the left-wing indoctrination and early sexualization of children in classrooms. It's what you're trying to do now, that the students are reporting. Listen, leave the school alone, leave the teachers alone, leave the students alone. For structural, educational, pedagogical, presuppositional problems, we have at school, because a political party is dedicated to putting it brutally in the world, with falsehoods and barring it all. Look, listen, do you want to defend the schools? The kids? So, you don't tweet with minors without consent. Do you want to defend the rights of students? Do not publish tweets with photographs without the consent of minors. You don't. [[Greetings.]] Because that's defending the right of students – that's defending the right of students. Has anyone in your party apologized to the masters and teachers who were their names and their photographs stuck in a tweet of what their head was, accusing them unjustly of facts that justice has not even accepted? Has anyone asked for forgiveness? – Has anyone asked for forgiveness? No, no, And, listen, going to the Ombudsman when the education skills are from the Generality and not going to the Greuges Synod doesn't mark an ideological bias? [[Widow's remorse.]] Clearly it marks an ideological bias. But it's more than – more than – this famous issue is entitled "Profiles of aculturation and linguistic aculturation of the descendants of migrants. Challenges and potentialities for language learning and linguistic and socio-educational inclusion. I form part of a competitive project of the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, financed in the marc de..., the aid of R & D & I projects corresponding to the State Programme of research, development and innovation oriented to the challenges of society. This famous question is a European question, which is done throughout the state, endorsed by a university and supported by the Spanish ministry. And we did what we would always do: when a university asks us to do a scientifically endorsed study, which, moreover, has a state and European recognition, it is our obligation to allow it to be done. In the case of the institute that you mentioned, the person who made the inquiry made a mistake – which was the project of this ministry, it was not the department, which made the inquiry – ; a mistake that was made to know who passed the inquiry and the error that was made, in this case. From here to make a mayor against this institute, so, no. We defend this institute, its direction, its faculty, its student and all the families. Totes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.143.0	Counselor, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.144.0	But, I insist, enough: leave the school in pau. If they have political problems, the school won't solve them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.145.0	Thank you, Counselor. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.146.0	MPs, MPs... let's resume the session. [[Parliament's Plenary Agreement approving an administrative appeal against Agreement 1/2020 of the Central Electoral Board of the 3rd generation of 2020]] [[395-00093/12]] The next item on the agenda is the Agreement of the Parliament's Plenary for which an appeal against Agreement 1/2020 of the 3rd Generation Central Electoral Board of 2020 is hereby approved. As it is a proposal from the Bureau and appears published in the plenary file, we will directly open a return to the parliamentary groups, because they can position themselves. According to what we set up at the Board of Spokesmen, the speaking time, in the case of parliamentary groups and, at this point, also the subgroups, will be five minutes for each one. It has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.147.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as everyone knows, Mr Joaquim Torra Pla was disenfranchised by delinquency and has been suspended in his public office and is therefore no longer President of the Generalitat. And Mr Torrent, President of this Parliament, has therefore preferred to set up the smokescreen of lending free to Parliament's lawyers to Mr Torra, rather than starting an investiture process, which was his duty. Mr. Torra, as we all know, disobeyed an order of the electoral board to respect the neutrality of the electoral procedure, but Mr. Torra preferred to cheat and disobeyed what was sent to him by the electoral administration. The law provides that the person convicted of disobedience may not be a public office, even if the sentence is not final; this is what LOREG has been saying since 2011. It is a measure of democratic regeneration, which seeks to strengthen citizens' confidence in institutions and promotes exemplary public office. And I ask all of you, Members of Parliament: if all Catalans must comply with the laws, must not a Member and even more rightly a President of the Generalitat comply with the laws? By protecting a convicted person for the crime of disobedience, you degrade the democratic quality of Catalonia, the democratic quality of this very Parliament. What a republish of privileges we would have if you, the separatists, ever took over Catalonia. It is fortunate that it is not yet the republic of Puigdemont and we are citizens to defend democracy. Look, Mr. Torra can't even rule, nor can he call a valid election. We want the elections in Catalonia to be valid, not born under the sign of illegality, if you call them Torra. And for that there are only two ways: either to do an investiture procedure and, if it is not valid, an election is automatically called, or the President of the Government of Spain ceases already Mr. Torra and calls an election within the law, in application of the Constitution. And that leads me to refer to Mr Sánchez, who in his shameful pacts with separatism has claudicated in the defense of the rights of those Catalans who feel Catalan-Spanish-European and who have the dignity and pride sufficient to demand from their rulers that what is demanded of them, which is to comply with the laws, is also fulfilled by their rulers. Let's see if Mr. Pedro Sánchez finds out that this is a matter of free people, of free and proud citizens who demand their rulers to behave in the same way as the rulers demand their citizens to behave. Do not meet, Mr Sánchez, with whom you do not represent the Catalans. Mr Torra has never wanted to represent more than the separatists, but now he does not even represent the Catalans, because he is no longer a deputy and is not president of the Generalitat, as our Statute and the Law of Presidency says. I also call on socialism here to fulfil the constitutional duty of the Government of Spain to make political decisions to prevent further violations of our rule of law. Do not allow the defence of democracy to rest only in the judiciary. The judiciary intervenes once the crimes have already been committed, but policy must first go in to protect citizens. And finally, stop extending the gum and prolong the agony, gentlemen of the Republican Left, of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Torrent. They take care of Catalans and not to protect their own. Let the Government return the companies, reduce the waiting lists, the barracks, the unemployment, which is taking off. Catalans do not deserve two former presidents who resist assuming that they are part of the past to prevent Catalonia from moving forward. I call on this Parliament, its authorities and its senior officials, its Members, not to be for any longer complicit in the political selfishness of Torra and Puigdemont. The Parliament must not lend its lawyers to the former president, socialists, do not vote in favour of this and re-think this time. Citizens will vote no to kidnapping [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and the use of Parliament to defend a former president who is believed to be above the law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.148.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.149.0	...that the rest of the citizens do have to comply. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.150.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.151.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, in this process of transformation of Ciutadans from a party that is called "non-nationalist in a nationalist party, we see that it is moving exactly with the same conceptual mark as those who believe that they are their Nemesi. The difference every time is less appreciable, in the sense that a_must make an already affixing of fringes of the flag that each one bears with the most passed. But, on the margins of this, they are dedicated to issuing good democracy books, good patriotic books, with the same failure to expel the others from the political community that we have seen so many times in the independence camp. They're exactly the same. Let us tell them that, respect us, they have a way of relationship, I don't know if they say 'love/ hate', or 'quantum', don't they? , that sometimes they consider us as part of this concept which has been coined with 'constitutionalism, sometimes they consider us as outside'............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, what we are here to do is to say: in the first place, why are we here? We're here, if we're strictly formal – and that's why I'm accused and my group is accused, sometimes, of being strictly..., too strict in the formal aspect –, there's why a compliment has to be given to a request that has been made to the chamber so as to produce a formality respecting a writing that is actually already interposed, huh? And in fact our parliamentary group, in its day, had recalled that the decision of the Central Electoral Board could be subject to appeal and asked the Bureau to consider making this appeal. And here we are. And so we will not block but the chamber, defending the arguments that you think you should defend, in defense of the Rules and the Statute, you come, through the mechanisms legally provided..., putting an appeal there where you're close. Because it's all the opposite of the real fundraiser, not formal, for which we're here. What we have seen is that a decision of the Central Electoral Board is now being fought before the Supreme Court and, therefore, is not disobeying. And in exchange for the background for which we are here is one of these symbolic disobediences that gives a certain line of Republican Left – certainly, they say they were stars, that they do not lead anywhere – or, if they want, one of these microdisobediences that seems to say another line of Republican Left, that they will have to return at some point, with a language that certainly reminded us a lot of the President of Catalonia when he was talking about a new phase of confrontation, tension or conflict, and he was talking about microdisobediences. Well, I don't know if the failure to remove a banner that the Central Electoral Board asked him to withdraw really consists of a worthy disobedience. From the point of view of its political effects, obviously, yes; we are all here for that. But where is the heroization or ethics of dismissing a request from the Central Electoral Board that you say that, during the election period and respect a banner, you withdraw it? Where are they, the ethics and the heroization of this? They are asking you, during the election period, to remove a banner that can be considered a partyist. What you need to do is to obey the instruction and, in any case, if you think it is not proportionate or not right, fight it. That's what we understand the Parliament is doing now. And, listen, it's all this..., I don't know, this overperformance, this grandeur around disobedience and the..., I don't know, a certain epic of that disobedience, in the oblivion that the norms that we have given ourselves and that all folds, in taking possession of the core, we have undertaken to respect are also norms decided for the conjunction of citizenship and that can be reformed through the mechanisms legally provided for the conjunction of citizenship. Therefore, this way of hitting the pit says that "I do disobey, look at how I confront myself, in reality it is not confrontation with a way of abstraction from the State; it is confrontation with the will of the city council, fixed in the norms that we have given ourselves. And so what we are asking of the Government of the Generality is that, since it itself is diagnosed as exhausted, without project, divided, with the deauthorized president, it effectively puts this situation in place by calling the elections as soon as possible and allowing the country to emerge from this impasse in which institutions are being degraded one day after another. So, please, don't let this happen another day; the president calls the elections and gives the view to the Catalan citizen to see what he wants to do in the four years that come.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is now the return of Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.153.0	Thank you, President. The Parliament has already decided, by table, that we will make this appeal, we will file this appeal administered before the Supreme Court against the agreement of the 3rd generation electoral board. We already agreed, that he is presented and with the terms on which he came up with what he would present. It has been the court that has asked that there must be a full agreement in order to be able to present this content. We do not agree with the court, but it is not us who will apologize to the Supreme Court because you do not admit or value this appeal administered by Parliament. And so we will vote in favour of the Parliament, which the House of Commons has ordered to make this appeal. I'd just miss it. This was the point of debate today, but I see that it has become a trial of the essence of the issue. As we are asked – or so it has been provoked with the initiator of the debate by Mr. Carrizosa – Mr. Carrizosa, Mr. Quim Torra continues to feel the President of the Generality of Catalonia. To Mr Quim Torra we do not want him, as president of the Generality of Catalonia, but we want to take 'the ballot boxes. To see if in the end it will be you, putting obstacles, that you can not make these elections, that not only you, but us and the majority of the citizens of Catalonia, want and need because you can rethink who are the majorities in this Parliament and who must be the president of the Generality of Catalonia and the majorities of the new government. The president continues to feel Mr Quim Torra, how clearly he expressed himself on the part of the reports of the letters. And it is that the reports of the letters – and I want to make a defense here today of the public servers and a complaint of the use on one side or on the other, that some often want to do, of the public servers –, the reports of the letters that they express or explain is the reality. Article 62.2 of the Statute does not say that because of the fact that you lose the condition of a Member you must lose the President; nor does it say otherwise, it is true. Therefore, the law could interpret it with all its elements, and in each of the cases concretely, with the rest of the regulatory and applying mark – I am not a lawyer, but I have always been told – the less harmful interpretation. This concrete case is not a firm judgment, and the Statute, also the Statute clearly says, in its Article 67.7, and the Law of Presidency and Government, which can only be criminal cause of termination of the President a firm judgment of incapacity. It's not the case. Less damaging interpretation, I said. If we finish doing a restrictive interpretation, perhaps even all error, of the law and get the condition of president, as you already want to do, under the current circumstances, to Mr. Torra, you will be causing an irreversible situation and injury to the rights of the people. It's probably not the least leeway. But it's that, besides, the election board didn't ask for this either. In fact, on the contrary, the electoral board has made it clear that continuing to feel or not president of the Generality is a matter of Parliament. I don't know where to make a speech, because they don't have the electoral board, no firm judgment, no arguments from Parliament's electorate, no legislative arguments to say that Mr. Torra is not president at these times. Stop making that fake speech. And I finish, I insist, it is, President, and we want it to continue until immediate assumptions and calls are made, just after, elections. To see if in the end it will be you who will make Catalonia unable to have the quick and urgent elections that we need as a country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.155.0	Thank you, President. Look, from our point of view, this is a huge misrepresentation and we'll explain to them why we see it like this. A disqualification – I didn't miss it – for a banner. Mr. Pedret, you're right, there's no such thing. Certainly, there's no such thing. An incapacitation initiated for an organism that is incompetent and completely defecated at the time of doing so, at the instance of the right and the extreme right. This is the initial picture we find ourselves in. Indeed, a new attack on the civil and political rights of voters and voters and on the sovereignty of the same Parliament. Let us resolve this Parliament, this very year, by affirming these rights, these civil and political rights, this sovereignty of the Parliament and affirming that the court will decide on the popular sovereignty and the sovereignty of the Parliament and proclaiming to the wrong and right that Mr Quim Torra is still a Member and is still a President of the Generality and that nothing will alter this majority determination of the Parliament. But in the past Ple – here the agreements last a little – a new episode of resignations following judicial decisions and depriving the president of his rights as a deputy. To all this, the readers one day say A, another say B, and another, violating all the laws of logic, say neither A nor B ; say neither A nor B in order to whether or not President Quim Torra ceases to be president, depending on whether or not he ceases to be a deputy. While Mr. Pedro Sánchez tells him yes, he's still president – he's not lost, is he? And entertaining everything that the people and some of their representatives have taken from the U of October with mobilization, with participation, with effort, with sacrifice, with disobedience, voting, fighting, taking repression, has turned institutions into smoke or electoral merchandise by work and thanks to a political class every day more porous and more conservative. Look, this case we're dealing with right now is the living reflex of the process until today. And the chronicle of an announced death, that of the failed and failed political proposal of Republican Esquerra, Together for Catalonia and the Government : autonomy and dialogue in the legal political framework of the State, working with the legal instruments of the same State and retreating before repression. A_mark, for sure, that now the PSC and the commons rush to try to support and give life and continuity to it, effectively, because it is a_mark that, from the point of view of defending our civil and political rights, our fundamental rights and the right to self-determination, did not go away. It is a _mark that only leads to the consolidation of the status quo and to the reconfiguration and reinforcement of the regime. But well, said all this, and I will not enlarge much more, it is not worrying not to be insolidaries or insolidaries. For the first time – and I assure you that you are tired, I assure you that you are tired – we will vote in favour of this proposal for strict anti-repressive solidarity and rigour. It's a legal initiative that we honestly don't believe in, because we think he's walking around, that's following a sound so he doesn't go around. Why, listen, what will happen if finally a firm sense of incapacity on the part of the Supreme Court goes up? Aren't we gonna get it? Disobey? Shall we confront the State? Or do we make a little noise, a little smoke, use the same legal political framework that we're fighting and then pray veils? Look, I think people need seriousness, rigor and honesty, because people do play it on the street. People do continue to take on and endure repression. Look, the problem is not legal. The problem is not legal, it is not to exploit the legal and political tools of the system. The problem is political and the problem is to change precisely from the political struggle to this political legal framework that is no longer useful for our democratic aspirations. And, therefore, the problem is political and that means self-determination, that means amnesty, that means disobedience, that means mobilization, sovereignty and exercise of all rights. And that, I'm sorry, is not a matter of appeal, not a matter of fire. This is done fighting in the street and in institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Daniel Serrano has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.157.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, I don't know if the spokesman for the commons has been betrayed by the subconscious when he has stated that perhaps these elections will not be held as quickly as they wish. And perhaps he has expressed it because he understands equally, as we also understand, that Mr. Torra is no longer president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, if not, I do not understand why the spokesman for the Communes has stated that perhaps, if proposed by both Citizens and the People's Party, those elections will not be held as soon as she wishes. Maybe it's that, in the background, you understand what we understand. [[Widow's remorse.]] For us, the debate on this appeal does not lie so much in whether Mr Torra has the right to effective judicial protection. It is clear that Mr Torra, as a Spanish citizen who is, has the right to effective judicial protection; in fact, he has been exercising it quite often lately. In this regard, therefore, nothing to discuss: Mr Torra, as a Spanish citizen, has the right to effective judicial protection. For us the debate is whether this Parliament, through its Bureau, should appear in a contentious administrative procedure to defend Mr Torra. Mr. Torra who – let us recall – has been sentenced by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia for a crime of disobedience to a sentence of eighteen months of disqualification. Is this the role that this Parliament of Catalonia should play? Would we do the same with any other former deputy convicted of another crime? Would Parliament devote itself to appearing in this procedure and defending it? I don't think so. And I don't think so, because in this case the legal issue is very clear. It is very clear because the LOREG expresses it radically, clearly, and is that when a person is sentenced to a penalty of disqualification, obviously – obviously – he has to leave the public office he holds, in this case the seat, because this is expressed by the electoral law. And let us remember that it is an organic law, an organic law of modification subsequent to what the Statut d'autonomia itself establishes and, therefore, it is that legal framework that has to be adapted to the new organic law. It is therefore clear that the judgment is enforceable provisionally, even if it is subject to appeal, as Mr Torra has indeed brought. Therefore, there is no legal argument as to whether that sentence is provisionally enforced. Of course it is, and it is that the LOREG establishes it very clearly. There's no legal argument. It's very clear. And, therefore, the substantive debate is political, it is whether Parliament is prepared to be Mr Torra's legal adviser. That's the point. And we understand that no, that the Parliament is to defend the interests of all citizens, but not those of Mr Torra, a citizen we remember, moreover, who confessed in the procedure. It is that he pleaded guilty, because the problem of the defenses of the separatist world in the proceedings is that they are political, not legal defenses. Then the sentences go as they go and then they don't satisfy their interests. But it is that political and not legal defenses are made. We therefore do not believe that the role of this Parliament should be to appear in this procedure and to defend Mr Torra's interests. On the contrary: the role of this Parliament must be to give effective effect to that resolution of the electoral board, which is that Mr Torra is no longer a Member. By the way, it still appears as such on Parliament's website. Man, we can take a few days to start these proceedings, but that Mr Torra still appears as a Member of Parliament..., I find it somewhat surprising that this circumstance is taking place. And the President of Parliament, moreover, must start the procedures for the logical consequence that follows from the loss of the status of Member of Parliament of Mr Torra and that is that he is no longer President of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Therefore, Mr Torrent, Mr President of Parliament, you must convene the investiture plenary to appoint a new candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat, you must fulfil your role and your obligation. And if you do not, the President of the Government of Spain should do so, which is to start the procedures to cease Mr. Torra, not to meet with him tomorrow – to start the procedures to cease Mr. Torra –, so that a new stage in Catalonia can be opened, an election can be called and a new time opened in Catalonia that will give way to a government that will take care of and worry about the interests of all citizens. We will therefore vote against this point on a question of legal evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.158.0	On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congressman Marc Sanglas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.159.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, counselors... In any case, what was to be a pure process is becoming a debate and a question that we enter into the background, and some barriers, let's say, of a legal policy debate and, therefore, we will try to resolve some of these issues. As someone has pointed out, in any case, let's say, when this Parliament appeared in some administrative or judicial process simply with an agreement of the Bureau it was enough to compare and give representation to the will of this Parliament. In any event, the Supreme Court, which has been very accustomed to us lately to resolutions that do not exactly conform to the procedures that are being established, asks that this House rule on this issue. And in any case, what was to be, I insist, a debate purely, let's say, giving support to a previous decision taken, has become a political debate on the issue, with these legal badges that we have on some benches of this Parliament saying whether President Torra is president or not. Of course you're president. President Torra is the country's president, and he will be while his citizens tend to be. And this is the will, it is the sovereignty of the country that expresses itself in this parliamentary chamber. It's just this parliamentary chamber that can put and take presidents. And that, while I keep doing that, we'll keep it. And this is the will expressed in the ballot box, and this is the will we think must be maintained. Some of you are very used to claiming intervention, let's just say, from layoffs; what you can't win at the polls is to try to win at layoffs. They already have a lot of us used to trying to do it. While the fierce people's sovereignty has given to the ballot boxes, they try to do so in a few places where – if they recognize it – they are very well positioned; very well positioned throughout a judicial history, legal history and some stories of some illustrious acquaintances that run from the time of the franchise to the present. Therefore, from this point of view, yes: they have strength there. We believe that what we are doing – and that is why we will give support and support to the interposition of this appeal to the administrative content of the Supreme Court – is defending the rights, in this case, the right of Congressman Torra, because we understand that the resolution of the electoral board issued at the time is unfair. As unfair as the sentence has been; a disproportionate sentence, because to condemn a disqualification for a banner seems to us a totally disproportionate action. There's no sense in it. And, therefore, in this line of what they have been doing through the Supreme Court and the electoral board try, through the mechanism of the electoral board, to remove the condition of deputy to President Torra and it seems to us that this point is not valid and therefore we will bring it to..., we will support this contention. It seemed to me that the lords of Ciutadans were jumping, let's say, by the « lining – if I may express – all the state of law. The guarantee of any person to go to court exists; it is not you who have to decide. Therefore, each person will have the right to watch or do what he or she thinks is appropriate. It's more, it's a resolution, that of the election board, that it's not peaceful. It is a resolution adopted only per seven of its thirteen members; a very small majority, with six private votes, which is very unusual in the area of the electoral board, which already shows us that this electoral board has been fully politicized in its decision-making, that they were looking at the background of the question, the political background of the question that it planned or that it has planned at all times of this process. We understand that this is not the way to act. The Electoral Board should be a purely administered organ that will be used for the proper functioning of the electoral process and that will not be involved in other issues. The judicial system provides for the disqualification of elected officials, but it has to be done through judicial judgements and when they are firm, which is not given in this case. Therefore, to those who are in such a hurry to change the President of the Generality, what we ask them is that they are prepared for some elections, that it seems that the last few times have not gone too well. Therefore, we firmly believe that any political change in this chamber must come from a few elections, and we reaffirm our commitment to President Torra. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia has the word deputy Josep Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.161.0	Thank you. Thank you, President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors. A special greeting for Mrs Ponsatí, from today on, MEP. [[Greetings.]] Consul Ponsatí is a Euro MP because she didn't give up, because she planted in front of the JEC's coup d'état, because she planted in front of the Spanish Electoral Board's striking pulse, which until today continues to make the ridiculous saying that she is not a Euro MP and notifying the European Parliament that she is not a Euro MP, when she obviously already has the credentials. This is the hit pulse that we've seen and that we've hit with President Torra and his deputy bait. It's the same Electoral Board and it's the same anti-democratic pulse. We also suffered from the same Supreme Court, which in its day considered that it was an important, urgent matter, to put an end to the exhumation of the head of the State of year 36. This is the Supreme Court that denied President Torra the protection of his rights. In fact, with the cynical argument that he's already disabled, he doesn't have rights. This is the State we live in. That's the problem we're experiencing. But we already knew, he doesn't see anything again. We already knew which Electoral Board we had; we already knew which Supreme Court we would find. That is why this House, this Parliament, gathered urgently on the 4th of generation and worked out a series of resolutions and made some arrangements to deal with this state with this authoritative pulse. There was a political strategy and there was a legal strategy. I can already say that today we will be voting in favour of ratifying this agreement of the Bureau to make this appeal, in coherence with which the resolution adopted by the fourth generation gave rise. Also, obviously, in coherence with this resolution of the 4th generation, the 14th generation, at the Bureau, we will vote in favour of bringing this appeal. We see no change, we see no change, from asking the Supreme Court for precautionary measures on behalf of this Parliament, because this Parliament has the capacity to enforce its sovereignty and to enforce its agreements. Therefore, we thought we should remain in the position of the 4th generation, politically ratified also by the groups that supported that resolution on the 10th generation. Therefore, political strategy, firm and legal strategy, but we are still aware that non-political legal strategy is not the path. We are where we are, and now we have to take this vote for a matter of delay, because the appeal is already filed and because the appeal is not even accepted by us that it is in accordance with the Rules and according to the standards of the same Parliament. They've got to tell us everything that's got to be approved. Not even this tiny bit of autonomy they recognize us already. We're at a point where it's time to make strategic decisions, too. The President, who can no longer vote, who is no longer allowed to vote in this House, announced that he would call on the people to vote. I believe that this is also a good solution to resume political initiative and to seize strength, among other things, to defend the dignity and sovereignty of this Parliament. And let me say one thing: this appeal, and neither the actions of this Parliament are to defend President Torra, they are to defend the institutions of this country, they are to defend the Rules of this Parliament and the sovereignty of this Parliament. We're not defending a person's rights, we're defending the sovereignty of this Parliament, because it's the sovereignty of everyone and every Catalan. So that's what this is about, and here we will find ourselves, here we will always find ourselves, defending the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia and the rights of all the citizens of Catalonia. We will defend this agreement, insofar as we are told that the precautionary measures requested by the Parliament no longer have any meaning and that, therefore, it is likely to give up these measures and eliminate any confusion that may have arisen in these last hours of respect for which is the position of the Parliament's and the Catalan Parliament's electorate on the condition of President. President Torra, as a Member of Parliament and as we think he should continue to feel, is the President, and can only cease to be by decision of Parliament or the people of Catalonia. Therefore, as I said earlier, firm politics, legal strategy, but above all aiming to always defend the sovereignty of this Parliament, the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.162.0	We called for a vote. Let's proceed to the vote, for which it is proposed to agree to file an administrative appeal against Central Electoral Board Agreement 1/2020, of the 3rd generation. The vote begins. The agreement was approved by 74 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.163.0	Let's go, now, to the next point of the order of the day... [[General debate on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia]] [[255-00010/12]] ...which is the general debate on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia. Before we begin the debate, allow me, on behalf of the chamber, to greet Mr. Gimeno, Director of the Anti-Fraud Office, and his team who are accompanying us today in this Ple. And now, if you're going to abandon the hemicicle, I'm going to ask you to do it quickly and quietly so that we can start the general debate on corruption proposed by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. I therefore have the word to present Mrs Lorena Roldán on behalf of this parliamentary group. When he wants to. [[Quiet.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.164.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Giving, too, the welcome to the members of the Anti-Fraud Office who, of course, will be interested in the subject that we are bringing to this Parliament today, which is not another corruption. Today we come to talk about a subject which some in this Chamber do not like, a subject which they avoid whenever they can. But today they will have no choice but to listen; to listen, to face and to vote. Today, at last, in this Parliament, you will have to explain about corruption. And the voting panel will make it very clear whether you really want to fight the – as they sometimes say – or whether you will continue to cover up the as you have done so far. These days we are debating the budgets of Catalonia. Budgets where, again, it is the citizens who have to take on efforts and sacrifices. Efforts and sacrifices that are caused by the mismanagement of this Government and its predecessors. And, yes, also for the corruption of this Government and the former. The list of corruption cases is a slab that should embarrass all the parties that have ruled us in Catalonia. Look, the case Banca Catalana, case Pujol, case Millet, case Palau, case ITV, case Treball, ADIGSA, Pretoria, Petrum, case Mercury, Innova, case Hisenda, case Ferrocarrils. Bribery, laundering, commissioning, documental falsity, influence trafficking, coeding, prevarication and, ultimately, corruption. And, worst of all, institutionalized corruption. I think everyone remembered the famous words of the then President of the Generalitat, Mr Maragall, when he said that: "You have a problem, and this problem is said three percent. Many of us in our homes wondered what that was three percent, what Mr. Maragall meant by three percent. However, Mr Mas did not seem to be surprised much, quite the contrary. And his answer – in tone, moreover, threatening – was a vain attempt to cover up what we would know years later. The same Mas – who was already president – tried to cover up corruption again by using the stellate. But it was late, because the Catalans know perfectly well that they've been robbed. They know that they have paid taxes with effort and that this money has not been used, for example, to reduce waiting lists. That money has not been used to end the barracks in Catalonia, it has not been used to alleviate energy poverty. No, no, They know that everyone's money has been used to fill the pockets of those who for years have taught us moral lessons from their seats, from these seats, impassive to the problems of Catalans who had a duty to manage and solve. People who did not come and are not in politics to seek solutions for the citizens, but to seek money and privileges for themselves. Degrading, thus, the task, the noble task of politics, because corruption is not only an economic harm, it is also a scourge that has discredited the institutions. A scourge that has discredited all the public and their representatives. He said before that Arthur Mas – in a desperate attempt to divert attention from everything that was on them – pulled the stellate out. Like that's enough. And you, your successors, far from correcting it, raised the bet. Using confrontation, division and flags to cover up corruption is pushing society into the abyss. The abyss of impoverishing citizens, depriving them of the right to better education, better public health, depriving them of the right to aid for dependency, depriving them of more and better social services or, for example, to protect them when they lose their jobs, or to help those who, despite having a job, live in poverty in Catalonia. And all the social indicators are getting worse. And although you, who today hold the power of the Government in Catalonia, have not yet realized, I want to tell you from this high and clear rostrum that sowing wounds in coexistence will never have been worth it, that power and money, that distributing institutions, that instrumentalizing them as if they were their courtship, is not worth a single injury, nor a single confrontation, nor a single personal rupture between Catalans. It's not worth it, it's not worth it. [[Greetings.]] Look, it doesn't matter what you wanted to cover, it doesn't matter what modus vivendi you wanted to perpetuate because nothing justifies the damage you've done in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. You have had the honor of governing for all these years. And they should have done that by setting an example. Because this I tell you – institutionalized corruption in the Government of the Generalitat – are not echoes of another time. It is a shame to see how cases of corruption or alleged corruption affecting his Government and, in addition, the separatist parties continue to emerge almost every week. It is, for example, the case of the secretary general of l'Esport, Mr Figueras, who has not a charge, no, he has two. The first, due to the alleged misappropriation of public funds from the Secretary General to foundations of the sovereignist orbit and Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. And the second, for alleged irregularities in the hiring of services for the 2018 Buenos Aires Youth Olympic Games. 2018, gentlemen of the Government, four days ago. Under your responsibility. And how many steps has the Government taken in this regard? Well, look, it's very easy to keep track, it's been a total of zero measures. Not a measure. This gentleman continues to take his leave of all Catalans despite – I insist – that he is under suspicion and suspicion of having committed an alleged fraud and corruption. And that's why Mr. Figueras was arrested. I ask you, Mr Bosch, why is this gentleman still paying a salary today, if he is splashed by these signs of corruption? And it's not just any corruption. It is that, again, it is the favorite corruption of Democratic Convergence, that of fraudulently using public procurement. How did Mr. Figueras do it? By splitting the contracts to be able to award the fingers without having to follow the legal procedure. And who was Mr. Figueras awarding the contracts to? Well, casually look at an entrepreneur convicted of the illegal financing of Convergence through the Palau de la Música, at the time of Millet. The same businessman that this summer confessed to turning fake bills to a TV3 producer, when this producer really – well, a producer who said she was working for TV3 – but what she was doing was working for the 2010 Convergence election campaign. See, I don't know exactly what the market is like now, but what a coincidence that they always hire the same ones; they always hire the same companies. If we are wrong in Catalonia, they always award contracts to the same gentlemen. I don't know if it's no coincidence. Do you believe that citizens do not realize? Is Convergence believed that because 400,000 times the name is changed, citizens no longer know who they are? Or that we don't know? You have the 3_per_cent method and your advanced students holding public positions. And Mr. Figueras is not the only one. We also have, for example, Mrs Borràs, current Member of the Congress of Deputies for Junts per Catalunya, former Councillor of Culture and, before that, Director of the Institution of Catalan Letters. The prosecution is asking the Supreme to charge Laura Borràs with the breach of contracts, considering that there are indications of crimes of prevarication, misappropriation and documentary falsity. Wow, the corruption hat trick. Like the corrupt fabric of the contract damage because it is difficult to investigate, Mrs Borràs wanted to do us a favor and had all the details of leaving us some wonderful emails explaining how she was doing about the contracts. Posts that also have no waste. Look, I'm going to read you some, because I'm telling you that she has the delicacy of leaving everything in writing. And why don't we take advantage of it? Check it out. Look, this is a conversation between Mrs. Borràs in 2014 with Isaiah Herrero – who, by the way, is a gentleman who has also been convicted recently for drug trafficking, but apparently not the only business he had. I know, I read you some of these emails. This in particular, as I say to you, July 18, 2014, between Laura Borràs and Mr Herrero, the graceful. The one who took the contracts to his finger. And he says, "Isaiah, the people of Ciutadans are holding me in jeopardy with the resolutions and appearances that they had called for and that will ultimately not have to be thanks to the votes against the Initiative for Catalonia, the Republican Left and Convergence and Union and the intervener with the delays. So far you've passed me the concepts, but not the assumptions, and I understand you expect me to do them, and I don't give it away. He thinks I don't have to do three more for each of your assumptions, with different fonts and formats. I couldn't do it because every day I have a job of Can Tirirín. I mean, so that the people who are listening to us can understand a little bit how this whole hiring thing is going, I'll explain it. When the public administration needs to hire a service of less than EUR eighteen_ thousand, it has to contact at least three different companies in the sector, asks for a budget and then chooses the lower budget, because what it is about is not to waste the money of Catalans. Although Mrs Borràs understood that it was about using and abusing her position to favor her friends. So, of course, it says the mail..., she admits here that the budgets are not given by the companies – she says it already –, she says she does them herself. I mean, "think that for every budget of yours I have to do three more. I mean, invent the three plus. And he says: "with different fonts and formats. What a detail, Mrs Borràs, because, of course, so that we didn't notice that those budgets had been invented by her. And he says..., he complains that he hasn't been able to make them yet because the citizens have fried it with our resolutions and petitions for appearance, from which he has been freed thanks to Initiative per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana and Convergence i Unió. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Mrs Borràs, for explaining to everyone with these e-mails how necessary it is Citizens and how we are the only ones who really investigate what you do with the money of all Catalans. Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs, really, from here. [[Greetings.]] And thank you also for leaving clearly again in this contract who saves them from their shames: Initiative per Catalunya, Republican Left and Convergence i Unió. If they are always the same! But they follow the e-mails, and he says – the graceful, the gentleman who gives the contracts to his finger, is impatient – and he says to him: "If you want me to do the budgets for you, tell me and I do them. I mean, yours and the ones you make up. « I imagine you're getting the idea that it's this year's bread and I want to know how it's going. And she replied: "Do not suffer, that the money I have reserved. It's just that the process is faracious. And yes, yes, Mrs Borràs is right; when one has to invent false budgets because the process is faracious, of course it is. Farragoso and shameful, because it is shameful what Mrs Borràs was doing at the head of the institution. And they follow the e-mails. Not only were the budgets invented, the services carried out were also invented – because of course, already put, I imagine they were inventing everything. Then there is another mail from Mr Herrero and he says – this is Mr Herrero, who is the one of the finger, so that we all understand each other. It's one of these I have around here too. [[The speaker shows the chamber a full.]] And he tells one of his collaborators that he needs an invoice of 17,500 euros with the following concepts. And then he warns him: "They are all invented. Don't listen to me. I remember asking for them on an urgent night, but you couldn't give them to me. So I put what I thought. Of course I do – of course I do. He put what he came up with and invented bills, invented budgets, invented services, and invented concepts. All invented with Catalan money, a shame – a shame. The shame and impunity with which they have been using the money of all Catalans to get cut to their own benefit is a shame. And on top of that, not content with that, they were crying later about the lack of funding. That's how it worked. And I also remind you that Mrs Borràs – that woman who writes emails saying that she invents budgets and breaks contracts so that she doesn't have to follow the legal procedure – is the person that Junts per Catalunya has chosen to be her leader in the Congress of Deputies. What's going on? That the alleged prevarication is rewarded? – that the alleged misappropriation is rewarded? Then we get our hands on our heads when the data comes out that people don't trust politicians. But how will they trust? This lady insists that she is the chief of the Junts per Catalunya ranks with these mails that are not wasted. It's embarrassing. And you have investigations outside the Chamber, but you also have them in here. And without going any further, he's not here right now, but we've also misled Mr. Buch, the Home Secretary for hiring a mosso to escort a man who's escaped from justice. And this is also corruption. That same advisor who let the radicals camp here wide, who did not protect the Catalans, is much more concerned to protect Mr Puigdemont, the fugitive from justice, with the resources and money of all Catalans. I don't know if Mr. Buch has done this exercise or someone from the government has done it, but why don't you go out to the streets and ask? Why don't you go out on the streets and ask citizens who feel insecurity if they prefer the Mossos to be here in Catalonia and not in Waterloo, protecting the fugitive from justice? Why not? Let's see what they say. You have been using the resources and you have been at the head of the Generalitat not to give protection to those who need it most, but to create a framework where you and your people could live at the expense of the Catalans' efforts. Because not to rule, but to distribute if the cake is given to you as a wonder. And so, year after year, Catalans have to see as Republican Left and Convergence or PDECAT – or as you call yourselves now – because they fight to see who gets the biggest piece of cake. And that is precisely where we are now, sadly, no more or less. And in the meantime, for example, in Catalonia, as I said before, the social indicators are getting worse and worse. 28.6_percent of children are at risk of poverty, according to a study by UNICEF. This indicator has increased by 3.6 in the past year, i.e. almost 30_percent of Catalan children at risk of poverty. Why do Catalans pay them their wages? So they can go on a trip to see Puigdemont? To cut off roads? So that embassies and delegations of those that you do, Mr Bosch, will be set up, which also serve only as a placement agency? You have come to politics very wrong, and from Citizens we will not tolerate it. So, obviously, as the first party in Catalonia and concerned about what is going on, we push this full monograph about corruption and the misuse of public money. We want to put an end to the black hole that the Pujols, the friends of the process and the 3_per_cent, have squandered the money of all Catalans, because even today you continue to worship the head of the clan that has plundered us for decades. You continue to be dazzled at the figure of Jordi Pujol, showing how you have lost all contact with reality. Because when you worship those who steal and ignore those who work honestly and need you to prosper, it means, no more or less, that you are in a parallel reality. Mr Pujol defrauded the Treasury almost €900,000. A crime that you have prescribed, but, look, what you have not prescribed is the shame that all Catalans feel about this gentleman. The shame of all Catalans for having been deceived for decades by the one who, instead of dedicating himself to leading a government, was more focused on his own criminal organization. And yes, you have heard well, I have said "criminal organization, which I do not say, says the National Court". This gentleman, Mr. Pujol, was the leader of a criminal organization, and the National Court investigates him, along with his wife, Mrs. Marta Ferrusola, her seven children and about twenty persons for tax offences against public finances, money laundering crime and, as I told you, criminal organization. I believe that this validates the practices of criminal law. Look, an organization that, according to court orders, presented common guidelines for action, coordinated its activities, distributed roles and distributed money through a particular system of accountability to control those distributions of funds. If they organized so well to manage the problems of the day-to-day of Catalonia, I am convinced that we would be better off. And every day that happens, in addition, we discover more things from this corrupt framework of the Pujol. A recent report submitted by the research unit has discovered a new foundation, the Paty Foundation. In this case linked to Josep Pujol Ferrusola, with an income of EUR 600,000 at the International Bank of Andorra. The Paty Foundation, which must be "pa'ti" everything you get. That's what they've been doing for thirty-five years in Catalonia: «. pa'ti.. everything you get. Of course I do. [[Greetings.]] A criminal organization, a clan of mobsters who with one hand asked the Catalans to vote and with the other they took their wallet. And Pujol was the head of that clan, the leader who didn't need to ask for things, because he was already taking them, because he was believed to be the owner of Catalonia. And he did it, too, by creating school. They're not isolated cases, they're too many cases, they're too many people charged. There are too many scandals in the shadow of the criminal organization of the Pujol, an organization that was also designed to continue looting with impunity over the years. This mob clan was expected to move from parents to children. And, in fact, I would also like to recall how Mr. Jordi Pujol had in his son, Mr. Oriol Pujol, for his hereus, known as "the prince of the 3_per_cent, sentenced to two and a half years in prison for trafficking in influences, for documentary falsehood and for conspiracy. The only member of this mob clan who's been in jail until this government decided he didn't have to be anymore. With two small months he had enough Mr Oriol Pujol to cure himself magically of his crimes of influence trafficking, documentary falsity and cohecho. It's a real shame – it's a real shame. But of course, one image is worth more than a thousand words. [[The speaker shows the chamber a photograph.]] Here are his friends, the friends of Mr. Oriol Pujol, the same ones who gave a blow against democracy and are here hoarding, to the hereus, the prince of the 3-per-cent on his way to the courts. Look, they all have something in common: they have not respected the laws nor the citizens of Catalonia. And you want something in common for all of them: impunity and open cells for them to commit crimes again in an unpunished way. What lessons? What lessons can you teach us about corruption? How have you dared for so many years to embrace those who have plundered us with full hands? If Mr. Pujol was also taken a few days ago, they invited him to TV3, to talk about 0.7_per_cent of cooperation. But what cooperation, what 0.7_per_cent? If what Mr. Pujol has to do is go to TV3 and apologize for stealing 3_per_cent and what we don't know. What is it about taking it to TV3? [[Greetings.]] A money that was also meant to provide more and better social services to the citizens of Catalonia and you take it there, in prime time, to TV3. When are you going to take him to TV3 to talk about 3-per-cent? When? When? Instead of giving lessons. Look, Catalans don't deserve it. And that is why we, from Citizens, have put forward an initiative for Parliament to ask Jordi Pujol to return to the last euro he has defrauded the Catalans. We don't care if the crime is prescribed. If I had dignity, if I had an apex of morality, I'd return to the last cent he stole from all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] Look, in September and October 2017 you not only skipped the Rules of this Parliament, you not only trampled on the rights of the opposition and the Catalans, you not only skipped the Statute and the Constitution, but you hit democracy. And to do so, the money of all Catalans, money that had to go to social services, money that this government had to spend on those Catalans who needed it the most. And I ask you: what have you done after knowing the sentence that condemns you for misrepresentation? What have they done? What steps have you taken to get back the money that, I insist, was of all Catalans? Not of those who hit, the money was of all Catalans. Have you taken any action? I hope that on the turn of reply the counselor will answer me, because I believe that you have not even had the decency, nor the decency, to pretend that you were studying to seek some legal action to recover that money. They've done absolutely nothing. Look, the Court of Auditors figures in €4.1 million the misappropriation of public funds for October 1. That money could have stopped, as I said, to Catalonia's social needs. But no, you used it again for your purposes. And worst of all, they don't regret it. The other day we had to listen here to Mr. Junqueras, who was not only proud of what he had done, but that on top of it he took out his chest and said he would do it again. He threatened to do it again. And there I asked Mr Junqueras and today I ask you all again: Are you able to look Catalans in the eyes and tell them that all Catalans spent money on their illegalities? That the money that should have gone to childhood, to dependence, to disability, to their illegalities was spent? Are you able, that, to do, to look at them in the face, to hold their eyes on all Catalans and also to explain to them that you have done absolutely nothing to recover that money? Are they capable, Mr. Counselor? Look, you are also at the head of the Foreign Affairs Council, also of Transparency, and you are also responsible for the delegations of the Government of the Generalitat in countries of the European Union and the United States. I ask you, how much money do these embassies cost? Because these embassies are used only to make separatist propaganda and to buy wills. And, look, the Court of Auditors plans to calculate this in a supplementary settlement, but it is already talking about the figure of 35_million_of_euro; 35_million_of_euro, Mr Councillor. I don't know... – it's that he denies it with his head –, I don't know what that liquidation will look like, but I'm telling him it looks bad, especially if we take into account what the Court of Auditors has already quantified, nine hundred thousand euros, which is almost 1 million euros, only dependent on his advice. What did they spend it on? For, it is fixed, in the creation and design of the register of residents abroad, dissemination in written press of the register of residents, design and activation of the register of residents abroad, international campaign of the image of the Generalitat – which was spent 63,000_euros –, invitation to groups of European parliamentarians for the One October – 88,000_euros – this was the support that you had from Europe, that you have to buy it –, team of experts of the IEERT for the One October, international observers, and also another money on the website Catalonia Votes – 136,000_euros. That is, almost nine hundred and thousand euros from his council for an illegal referendum. I insist that this advice corresponded to the Republican Left and continues to correspond to the Republican Left. Because you come here after it seems you haven't broken a plate, that you when you talk about corruption, ha! It kind of doesn't go with you guys. Well, the thing goes with you. Is that the progressive Republican Left, Mr. Counselor? You have not yet asked for forgiveness for your cases of corruption; you did not do so the other day for this, but not for other cases of corruption that the Catalans remember perfectly. We remember perfectly how Mr. Ricard Calvo, of his party, cheated on the contracts of the DGAIA, which is in charge of the care of the children who need us most. Do you also remember how some of your colleagues at Esquerra Republicana were already profiting from the time of the tripartite contract awards to the reception centres, in the meantime, had the children sleeping on the floor of the corridors? But that's how you are, that's how you are; you spend your life talking about solidarity, rights, social protection, democracy, in the meantime, huh? They're hiding in the carpet their shames to make it absolutely nothing has happened here. And on top of it they had the nerve to say that Spain didn't steal. Mr. Aragonese, here present, said that Spain was stealing from us. Well, look, no, Spain wasn't stealing from us, the one that was stealing from us was the process, time and money from all Catalans. That was the one that was stealing from us, not Spain – not Spain. [[Greetings.]] I don't know if you talk much to the neighbors of Sant Cugat. Some are, because, moreover, they are neighbors. But those neighbors of Sant Cugat for a very long time have had to have breakfast with a new case of corruption. And, of course, I am convinced that Mr Puigneró and Mr Calvet do not want to hear about what was happening in Sant Cugat. And thanks to a complaint from Citizens they have to talk. We brought it to the attention of the prosecution, our councillors in the municipal group, and thanks to this tax complaint is investigating the nest of corruption in which Convergència fed his friends in the City of Sant Cugat ; irregularities that can rise to millions of euros that have been passing from the municipal coffers to private companies without any kind of control. Well, control yes, 3_per_cent control, that that's what's wonderful for you, you're experts, and you used everything that was within your reach: municipalities, institutions, council, whatever it was. We spoke before TV3 too, because, as you use everything within your reach, TV3 has not been left behind. And not only has it been the speaker of the separatist parties, but it has been a way for the economic doping of Convergence. And there they have the National Audience also investigating false invoices linked to producer Triacom, a producer accused of irregularly financing Convergence. That is, TV3 has emptied the arches of Catalans to fill the arks of Convergence. Again the public to the enjoyment of the separatist elite, that has never had time to take care of the waiting lists in health, that has never had time to end the barracks in Catalonia, that we are the autonomous community with more barracks, because I was very busy filling their pockets. Look, the Catalans are unprotected with you at the front, unprotected because you do not know and do not want to manage or focus on social policies, and unprotected because you use what is of everyone as if it were just yours. You use the public as if it were your cortijo and you're blundering; it's corruption that gets everywhere. The Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office has accused Mr. Rafael Ribó, the syndic of heaviness, of cohecho. That is, an institution that should protect the rights of all Catalans turns out that it has also fallen into the corrupt plot of Convergence. Mr Ribó, who is charging EUR 138,000 a year, in a position which, first, has expired, and second, is that on top of it he is under suspicion of corruption of the 3_per_cent plot, which apparently..., well« apparently, I insist that an image is worth more than a thousand words. [[The speaker shows the chamber a photograph.]] Mr. Ribó traveling to see the Champions final on a private jet paid for by one of the entrepreneurs of the corrupt 3_per_cent plot, huh? , with your VIP catering included. Convergence, logically, does not want this to be investigated, this shame, but it is that Republican Left neither. And perhaps this, rather than you, Mr Councillor, can explain it better to us by Mr Torrent, who, as Parliament, as President of Parliament, vetoed Ribó's appearances in plenary and, more importantly, prevented the Anti-Fraud Office from investigating Mr Ribó, so that we do not know, so that the Catalans do not know the truth about this alleged trip and this alleged corruption of the syndicate of pelagics; I insist, a gentleman who has the expired mandate, and not only that, but above is dedicated to making ultra-nationalist speeches, who is able to blame the alarming waiting lists in health for patients coming from other parts of Spain. Let us go, that is, alleged corruption and speech« Spain robs us, but in a health version, because, obviously, sufficient merits for the parties of the Government to save this gentleman's face and prevent him from coming here to explain. A shame – a shame. As serious is the corruption in Catalonia that has arrived at an institution such as the Sindico de Greuges, which, I insist, should be to protect the rights of Catalans. It's a real shame. In Catalonia, who has touched power has used it to put his hand in the pocket of Catalans. Also the Socialist Party. I don't know if it's going to give me time, because there's a retaliatory, here, of charges, of corruption cases. But, yes, yes, they know it very well also in Sabadell, who endured the corruptions of the Mercury case, of Mr Bustos, which left aside, therefore, the many problems that citizens had to devote themselves to building a customer network that would allow him to perpetuate himself in power. Also the Pretoria case, for which the former deputy of the PSC Luis Andrés García was sentenced to seven years and the former mayor of Santa Coloma to five and eight months for manipulating urban operations. And not to mention, of course, also the former mayor of Reus, of the Socialist Party, Lluís Miquel Pérez, who is pending trial for contracts and illegal payments (sounds the acoustic sign indicating that the time of intervention has expired) in the City of Reus through the case Innova. In short..., in short, because I am running out of time, but in the reply we can continue, but it is clear that this is how the separatist parties, populism and also the Socialist Party acted when they came to power, with false promises, while using the public to fill their pockets. It is not enough to condemn corruption, it is not enough to come here and say that yes, that yes, that they have no corruption, that yes, that yes, that they condemn it. No, no, Measures must be taken to combat corruption, to prevent corruption and to punish corruption. And not to have people like Mr. Figueras, double accused and still sitting in his office collecting a salary from all Catalans. I hope you'll give me an answer now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.165.0	All the same, we continue with the intervention of the Government. According to Decree 29/2020 of the 5th of February, for which it is determined the replacement of the President of the Generality, in the exercise of his functions, published today in the Official Gazette of the Generality, has the word, first of all, the Vice President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.166.0	Very late, Honourable Speaker of Parliament, Honourable Councillors, Honourable Councillors, Lords and Deputies, Director of the Anti-Fraud Office and his team, who are accompanying us today. All of them are known because from the office of the President of the General it has been communicated to the presidents of the parliamentary groups..., the personal circumstances that prevent today President Quim Torra and Pla from accompanying us in this plenary, and that, therefore, agree with what the Rules of Parliament establish, there is and do, therefore, the first intervention, on behalf of the Government, in the event of a general debate. I would like to thank, on behalf of the Government and the President, that today all the parliamentary groups, in the part of the control session, have agreed to leave more questions to the President of the Generality. And, therefore, I would like to convey to you the grace for this understanding. As it is for the President of the Generality to initiate the Government's position in the general debates, as we are starting today, and as it is for the President of the Generality to give account of the President of the Parliament, this designation of substitute during the day of today, I am to make this intervention, purely formal, to give everything followed..., which, after that, the President of the Parliament gives the word to the Councillors who, on behalf of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, will express what is the compromise and the tasks of the Government of our country in the fight against corruption. And they will be the Honourable Counsellor of the Presidency, Meritxell Budó, and the Honourable Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Alfred Bosch. Before, however, I would like to make clear, on behalf of the Government, our commitment in the fight against corruption, in the full management of our country's public resources, in the ethical performance of public functions and in the compromise in the elimination of any risk of action likely to be corrupt. We call upon all the Members and Members to delay their debate, and on the follow-up to the motions for resolutions, whether it be rigorous, whether it be from the proposal, whether it be from the position, from the complaint, but from the exact complaint, that it goes further than the falsehood, that it goes further than the demagogue, that it goes further than the attempt to generate, therefore, some concrete action, a whole revolution, that is, in fact, what we have heard in the intervention that preceded us, with falsehood, with violations of the presumption of innocence, and, clearly, therefore, with the elements of people... who believe that you have probably failed to express yourself here. This government is committed to the full management of public resources, and it is committed to the full management, because we know, not only because of our democratic convictions, but also because of our republican convictions, that public benefits, public history, public resources management..., must be done with all caution, must be done from the utmost demand and must be under all kinds of controls. It will not be on the part of this Government that we limit these risk prevention actions, these control actions and subsequent actions before any irregular actions. Therefore, we make this call – from then on, because, sadly, in the previous intervention, I regret that it was not so – so that the debate is with all the necessary strength but always from the rigour, always from the respect, always with the proposals and moving away from all falsehood. Many thanks, very honorable President, ladies and gentlemen. And so I leave the space to the councillors to express the government's position in this matter. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.167.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Indeed, the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.168.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, agafo in this Faristol at these times the word on behalf of the very honorable President Torra in this debate. Again a debate, a monographic debate, in which the Ciutadans Group takes advantage to make sound. They want to make a whole revolution to put it all in the same bag, sweep apples with pears and maybe pick up some headline. Let me tell you that they're doing a very dirty service to institutions that generate this climate of lies and falsehoods. This is not the constructive way we would expect a responsible opposition. But constructive and responsible do not seem to be part of the citizen group's grasp. "Structural, systemic and institutionalized corruption is the name of this debate when it comes to it – and, in fact, they have nailed it – to its destructive and less-than-structured attitude: structural, systemic and institutionalized is its obsession and needs to generate headlines that escape defamation, less and a deep feeling of permanent shame. And today they try to question the honorability of this government. So let me tell you that I don't know any cases of corrupt practices in this legislature at the General Administration. Ask us, therefore, if they want, responsibilities of those who govern, from May 15th of the year 2018. At that time, in the investment debate on May 14, 2018, President Torra already expressed the need to move towards an open governance system that integrates transparency policies. Transparency, accountability and the empowerment of the citizenry and the open government were irrefutable premises for this government. Since the first day, therefore, we have taken the fight against corruption with complete rigour and seriousness, and you are also being asked for a responsible opposition. Today we are here to debate corruption, transparency, ethics and good and practical evils; so let's do it. Practical evils, however, are not a territorial heritage, they produce raucous, and so they are independent of political colors. Proof that this pandemic has a global abst is that it has been a few months, concretely the April of the past year, the International Monetary Fund has submitted a report of the curbing corruption in which it presents various tools to cool corruption. Among other conclusions, the report states that the fight against corruption begins with political will and continues with the strengthening of institutions to promote integrity and accountability, and if it is cooperative at international level, then even better. Politically, stealing is power, says the report. Well, that's our reason to be: we don't only have political will, but all political determination, and with our government action we're making institutions stronger and, if I may, empowering the citizenry, because we want it to be a key piece in the fight against corruption, because we want a critical citizenry and we want you to see and claim your rights at all times. Some data that we all have in mind: according to the CEO, 92_percent of this country's citizens believe that corruption is quite widespread among politicians; 72_percent of Catalans believe that there is a lot or enough corruption, according to the Anti-Fraud Office barometer, and 82_per_cent considers this to be a hard, very hard or quite hard problem. This perception reflects citizen confidence in institutions, and it is very worrying, because Antifrau's same barometer holds out that the feeling of corruption is not caused by the fact that citizens have been directly witnesses of bribes, but the problem of trust focuses on institutions and politics. And this is the key back to what we're working on: gaining the confidence of the citizenry by mediating the facts. As the Nobel Prize-winning Rigoberta Menchú said, without solid institutions of vigilance, impunity is converted into the base on which corruption systems are built, and, if impunity does not go unpunished, all efforts to put corruption on hold are in vain. Abandoning the compromise with the common good has costs; economics, of course, but still worse, aesthetics; in fact, supposes an authentic moral degeneration. The European Union estimates that damage caused by corruption amounts to EUR 120,000_million annually, one-third of which– 40,000_million– in Spain; that is, a much higher figure than the Government of the Government of Catalonia. And a second impact on the moral realm is mistrust and mistrust. Corruption is a corrosive phenomenon, which leads to very deep social, economic and political crises and generates desanimity and impotence in the population and weakens democracy. That's why, and since it can't be any other way, we have to do everything in our grasp because this concern that transmits citizenship to us in these are not right to be. President Torra's government has the political courage to be 100_per_cent committed to bringing the concept of zero tolerance to the limit with corruption and working tirelessly to refer to confidence bridges. Since the middle of 2015, when they have statistics from the General Council of the Judiciary on people prosecuted or prosecuted for corrupt practices, Catalonia has increased from 255 people in 2015 to thirty-five on September 2019. It is only fair to recognize the efforts that have been made previously so that we can get to where we are today. Fighting corruption is a long-term path, because the same time we improve institutions can improve the civic culture we have as a society. According to the director of the Anti-Fraud Office, our company has the strength to make an effective struggle between all, not only from the institutions. Corruption will not end if it is not with the involvement of all citizens. It is a question that I have made it clear that there must be no impunity before standards are breached. On September 2014, this Parliament approved, for the most part, Law 19/2014, of transparency, access to public information and good governance. A law of transparency, Catalan, much more ambitious than Spanish, approved a year earlier. A law that has just completed five years and that we need to put into value, since it has been a foundational pillar to hear where we are now, and allows us to hear the great qualitative leap that the institutions have made in the past years. A law aimed at increasing citizens' confidence in their institutions, facilitating the retention of accounts and ensuring the ethics of public managers, together with the creation of tools to facilitate good governance and open governance. To go to the party, let me highlight three stalwart ways against corruption that ended these past five years. First, the citizenry must know that its representatives act independently and transparently. We have been pioneers in creating a public register of interest groups as a mechanism to ensure transparency in the influence of lobbying; a tool that did not exist in Spanish legislation or in most European legislations and that again placed us at the forefront of transparency. According to the report, citizens must also be able to access all the information: public agendas, under high conditions, public contract data and subsidies, organizational data, among many others. This is why we have deployed Transparency Gencat or the Public Contracting Platform, with information of all types, open to the citizenry. And I put it in value because in these portals you can find, in the form of active advertising, the answer to many of the questions that citizens ask. And, if you don't find the information you're looking for, the citizenry can address itself to 'hyper request information, which must be answered in less than two months by the government. Between July 2015 and July 2019, the Government has rejected approximately 3,500 requests for access to information. Not only that, but the citizenry has the right to complain to the Commission for Guarantee of the Right of Access to Public Information, an independent body that analyses requests for access that have not been answered or that have been rejected and requires its response if it considers that it is in conformity with the law. And third, not only has the Generalitat done the work, but also the rest of the Catalan administration, and today 99 percent of the municipalities have a portal of transparency, a fact that is hardly reproducible outside our country. In this sense, we can be proud that the Transparency portal to Catalonia, with data from the local administration, public universities, political parties and corporate administration, as well as business organizations, trade unions, associations, foundations and other private entities and professional interest groups, acting as tractors of this public information and, therefore, information for all citizens. The last legislature, with President Puigdemont in the front, was first created a department of the Government of Catalonia dedicated specifically to transparency: the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, encapsulated by the Honourable Councillor Romeva. From that moment on, transparency and the open government were able to technify, and since then the Government of the Generality, through the department now encapsulated by the Honourable Counsellor Bosch, has not stopped working in and around these areas. In the last index of transparency of the autonomous communities that has made public Spanish International Transparency referring to the year 2016, the Government of Catalonia was at the forefront of transparency policies; in fact, it valued the Government of Catalonia with a 98,1_on_100 in the overall transparency ratio and with the highest value at the quality level. In general terms, Catalonia was in the second position, behind the Basque Country, which had obtained a value of one hundred points. At the quality level, Catalonia holds an excellent position, together with the Basque Country and with Múrcia. And in this legislature we have pressed the accelerator to be able to place us in a 2020 that must be the year of the fight against corruption in Catalonia, as Councillor Bosch likes to say. The report of the International Monetary Fund, which I have mentioned at the beginning of the intervention, proposes various measures to create effective institutions that inhibit corruption. First, investing in high levels of external and independent transparency and vigilance, because audience organizations and the public in general can perform effective oversight. And the government is doing it. Second, reform institutions to attack corruption from all angles; for example, simpler tax laws and reducing the discretion of public servers. And we're doing it. Third, for example, create a professional civil service. Transparent and merit-based contracting and remuneration procedures reduce opportunities for corruption. Leaders occupying the governing bodies of public bodies must promote an ethical behaviour that sets out the pattern of growth. And the government is doing it. Fourthly, keep yourself informed about new challenges as technologies and criminal opportunities evolve; pay attention to the areas that are most at risk: public procurement, administration of public tickets and management of natural resources, as well as effective internal controls. And we're doing it. And five, more cooperation in the fight against corruption between nations. And we're doing it too. We are doing it and we are deeply committed to continuing it, ladies and gentlemen. As the International Monetary Fund thinks, tackling corruption is a challenge that requires perseverance in many areas. We persevere because the elimination of corruption promises enormous benefits for the future of the collection. For the government that encapsulates President Torra, the good government and the fight against corruption are priorities, because they cannot be dissociated from our bet for the democratic quality we want to see prevail in a Catalan republic free of corruption, at the height of the most democraticly mature countries. The plan of government that we approved at the beginning of the legislature incorporated the open government and institutional quality as the first objective of the eix« A society strengthened democratically, free and just: for shared governance. It's not just a statement of intent; it's a parliamentary compromise. On one side, the open government, and especially transparency, as well as strengthening the tools of the citizenry to control the government and detect possible irregularities, also reinforce the administrative incentivities to make things look good. On the other hand, institutional quality reinforces impartiality in the functioning of institutions, which is the greatest guarantee against corruption and one of the most useful mechanisms to increase citizen confidence and democratic quality in Catalonia. What are we doing to prevent corruption and enhance transparency? So we're reinforcing the fight against tax fraud, because this is one of the forms of corruption that has the most impact on our societies. We have developed the Tax fraud prevention and reduction plan 2019-2022, which reinforces with twenty-nine new measures the previous plan 2015-2018 and which brought out 704.5_million euros of fraud thanks to more than 200,000 control, detection and correction actions. We are deepened, through a preliminary draft of the law, in the transparency of lobbying activities, to ensure that the influx is always legitimate and useful for the common good. As I said, Catalonia is already referring to the State and Europe in control and transparency of lobby activity, but we want to take a step forward. It is good that there is influence and to be able to interact with representatives of interests, but it can be guaranteed with the transparency that this influence is legitimate. We are burgeoning to make the citizenry available the maximum amount of data, as a very powerful mechanism to strengthen the retention of accounts. We want to be referents, and that is why we have approved the Open Data Strategy of the Government of Catalonia, we have adhered to the International Open Data Charter and we have approved the Open Government Plan 2019-2020, with a hundred actions, and it affects the understanding of citizenship promoting the involvement of society in public policies and providing the tools and resources needed to build a high-quality democratic society. We have put in place a new functionality of the Department of Justice's Guide of Entities, to allow the internet access of the economic data of registered foundations in Catalonia and to facilitate annual accounts, grants, donations or the names of assailants, among others. We are centralizing all the information on grants, which was previously distributed through the Catalonia Register of Grants and Aids, a new control mechanism, monitoring and evaluation of grants and public aid, to compliment the active advertising obligations on grants established in the Transparency Law. On the other hand, in order to increase the institutional quality and thus foster the confidence of the citizenry and social justice, we have set aside an ethical structure for the Administration of the Generality, we are developing the code of the public server of Catalonia as the key piece of the system of integrity in Catalonia that will affect some 320,000 public employees, plus a high number of private providers. The code backs the principles and ethical values on which to build the integrity of the performance of public servers. It is a matter of inoculating our public administration with a more anti-corruption vaccine to contribute to the better democratic quality and to the recovery of the confidence of the citizenry in its institutions. We must recognize that in this case they are not pioneers, Catalonia has already done a lot of work in this sense and we want to position ourselves in the first line of the most advanced democracies. We have seen as referring many international organizations to promote good practices in management; concrete countries that have developed solid initiatives such as the United Kingdom or Canada, as well as the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, to which, as you know, Catalonia is totally compromised. We are betting for the better of the regulatory quality in the line advocated by the International Monetary Fund; a standard mark, a clear standard mark, and excessive regulation may favor corrupt conduits. Regulatory simplification is essential and a key line of this government. After having repealed two-hundred law standards that were no longer in force, the regulatory simplification plan seeks to repeal obsolete decrees and orders. We have started the process of reforming the process of developing governance standards to make it more transparent, effective and participatory. We reinforce the assessment of the impact of our initiatives to make better decisions. We have a 2019-2020 standard plan as a tool to order and streamline the government's regulatory output and to give all economic and social operators the approximate dates of consultation processes before they can prepare their participation sufficiently. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, the government has not stopped working to improve our institutions. We have not forgotten the measures proposed in the Social Pact against Corruption of the year 2015 or the conclusions of the Commission of Study of the measures of struggle against corruption for the democratic regeneration of the Parliament of Catalonia. A job that culminated two weeks ago with the approval of the Fight against Corruption and Strengthening Public Integrity Strategy, with twenty-five concrete measures to develop in two years that affect the areas of public contract, taxation, subsidies, public function and direction, and interest groups among others. A compromise that we adopted a few years ago and now is a reality thanks to the participation of civil society, a band, and in the experience and knowledge of many professionals and organizations such as the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, the Catalan Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies, the Union of Accounts, the Syndicate of Greuges, the Departments of the Presidency, Vice-President and Economy and History, Digital Policies and Public Administration, and External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency to which, in all papers, President Torra wants to thank their participation. Without this transversal work it would not have been possible. With the experience of these years of battles to put cutthroats to corruption, we have after the cross-cutting in this case between sectors and institutions is fundamental. And we also dared to name and write directly the word corruption into a government document. Because we're after that to fight her, she has to look at her eyes and say things for her name. Counsellor Bosch will expose you to the concrete content of the strategy, but I cannot stand out some of the measures I have contained. A new system of protection of persons alerting corruption cases with complaints busts hundred_per_cent anonymous. Strengthening the collaboration between the Tax Agency and the Mossos to detect cases of corruption, or training at the Mossos d'Esquadra in the fight against corruption, or increasing the transparency and publication of meetings agendas of senior technical staff, or better prepared public directives in personnel selection processes, based on merit and ability, or expanding the aid and grant register for all public administrations in Catalonia. I would like to point out, however, that this strategy does not only present measures, but has been accompanied by a system of governance that wants and needs to ensure a comprehensive and comprehensive approach to corruption. As the country we want to be able to look at the Mirall without seeing anything that makes us ashamed or makes us not aware of it. It's changing, it's evolving and our society, too. I don't know where they are. It is clear, therefore, that our proposal as the Government is to place the Administration of the Generality and, by extension all the administrations of Catalonia, to the head of the public administrations of Europe and the Spanish State in the matter of democratic transparency. We can't ask people to raise their level of consciousness if we can't make them trust the cent_per_cent in the good work of their institutions. We want a citizenry that is responsible for civic culture, that has reason to feel responsible for public interest, and that's why we've done all this work and we'll continue that way. We will continue to cultivate civic culture, within and outside administrations. We also want our young people to grow in creased values to help build societies every time more advanced. It is not just a matter of standards and control; it is above all a matter of values. And that's why I'm going back to the beginning. It is not true that we have a problem of systemic and institutionalised structural corruption, and it proves that the Government of Catalonia, surely, is one of Spain's most taxing governments: the prosecution, the Court of Auditors, the means of communication..., they keep watching us and analyzing everything we do. I don't know if this constant taxation will hold the monarchy or other institutions of the State? In fact, it is the Spanish State where the great cases of corruption, which go from the Rajoy government, the most corrupt of contemporary history, until the great and millionaire scandal of the EROs of Andalusia, led to the index of the perception of corruption of transparency and 2018 to publish that the Spanish State was at number 41 of a hundred_width among the countries with the least corruption of the world. After the media influence of those great cases of corruption that I have just mentioned, in the last report last month, published by Transparency International, it is reported that in 2019 Spain has advanced new positions from number 41 to 30, tied with Portugal, Barbados and Qatar. Sense of doubt is good news that the citizens realize that Spain has less corruption. Now, there's a lot of work left to do. The objective should be to be at the level of perception of the corruption of the citizens of Germany, who have been the nine in the race, or of the Nordic countries. In any case, and in summary, we in Catalonia are clear that they are free of corruption and that they write their future in freedom. All the policies that this government is carrying out, with the strategy as if to fight, we want to follow the vaccine that you do outside any attempt to get the corruption virus into our institutions. I hope that's the way it is. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.169.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] Then, as the Vice President announced, the words of the Foreign Affairs Councillor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr. Alfred Bosch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.170.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies. And, therefore, a greeting, therefore, very cordial, institutional to the director of the Antifrau Office. And, also, allow me, all the members of my team who have managed, therefore, that today we have them, better than ever, to fight against corruption in our country. And that they would basically substantiate the words that I will address them, and all the plans and all the realities that are already unfolding, and that I will detail them further. Let me, however, first of all answer some of the questions raised before the intervention of Mrs Roldán, representing the Ciutadans Group, to which I should like to say that I thank..., to her group, in conjunction, I thank the opportunity to be here talking about fighting corruption. As often as anyone, like you, any other group that you consider necessary, ask us to speak in this pharystol, because it's a pleasure, because it's a satisfaction and it's a need to explain what we're doing and explain how we're moving into this land. I ask, plant, ask... even if they want, accuse – I would miss more – that we have nothing to store. On the contrary, please be here and explain everything we're doing and everything we have planned to do. You mentioned various names of people who are currently under hearing. You spoke of Mr. Gerard Figueras, Mrs. Laura Borrás and others. And I ask you, Mrs. Roldán, do you know more than the judge knows? Because I remember him – and you, if I'm not mistaken, so he did a few years at the university studying law and student how justice works. I'm sure you know the difference between a case that is being investigated and a case that is being sentenced. So I can't admit that you're here and you've already sentenced them, who they are, who they are. In fact, at last, he has related alleged misrepresentations – or what you interpret as misrepresentation – to the appearance, the other day, of Mr. Oriol Junqueras. Mr. Oriol Junqueras said he couldn't look at them in the eye, but how did he look in the eye if you left the room when he started talking! [[Greetings.]] If you have left, if you cannot look at the eyes of a person who is unjustly sentenced to more than thirteen years of imprisonment; unjustly sentenced. I'm not asking about money. [[Greetings.]] So maybe we should go a little more alert. I also remember how you, at the last parliamentary session, spoke in enormously unfair terms and at the expense of the very honorable President of Catalonia. You, Mrs. Roldán, accused him, repeatedly and with a very high profile, accused him of delinquent. Listen, you, surely, think differently that Mr. Junqueras, that Mr. Joaquim Torra, very honorable president, is that you match the difference with the crime. Being different from you isn't a criminal, especially when you're talking about people who are under trial. There's no firm feeling. There's no firm feeling. So, no, you may be annoyed that you speak loud and clear, Mrs. Roldán. I know it's hard, but he deserves it. But it's what he deserves, huh? And now I'll tell him to flow, that he likes it better: he deserves it. Do you know why? Do you know why? Because anyone who has some right knowledge and I'm sure you have – among other things, because among their teachers there are people who today advise the work we do to the Government of the Generality and some very close to me, huh? – so, you, sure will have good teachings of people who know a lot. And the first lesson in law enforcement is that if there is no firm feeling, no one can be considered a criminal. There's no crime if there's no feeling. Looks like you're pretty clear. The more we're talking about a man of integrity, like President Quim Torra. A man who sees private enterprise, not politics. A man who – he can disagree with a lot of things about him – can't deny that he's a good person. And you still, on a date like today, haven't taken advantage of the occasion to apologize for what you were told the other day. So I'm telling you, they're still in time, they can still apologize for having treated him like a criminal. A person accused of defending freedom of expression and thought for a banner. Shame. Shame that someone, who this so-called justice of the Kingdom of Spain wanders to the point of wanting to disable the President of the Generality to defend freedom of speech and thought. That you don't agree with him? The difference exists. Okay, I can admit it. That they do not coincide in the defense of freedom of expression, in the defense of freedom of thought? So, we'll take a note. You do not agree in the defense of freedom of expression and freedom of thought. Let's take a note. I also left it in defense of tradition – which I think is important – of the party I represent and, through which, I also belong to this coalition government: the Republican Left of Catalonia. A game with eighty-nine years of history – which is already said – without a macule. A party... – then he will explain to me this smile – a party without any proven political corruption. Eighty-nine years. We can disagree, you can disagree, you can even think about everything that Republican Left people have sometimes been wrong and that for so long we've kept the pot; but we've never got our hands on the box. And, therefore, that must also be said. Why? So because we defend, we believe and practice republican values. And where we have ruled, where we have helped with the Administration, and in municipalities, in parliaments, in the Government of Catalonia, in places of great responsibility, we have never aroused, there has never been any case of political corruption. These republican values to which he alludes before the Vice President of the Government, these republican values that make us well aware that those who are citizens belong to the citizen and that we are administrators, that we manage those who are citizens to trust in us because they trust us... And that trust, which is the key to good politics, is clear. That's Republican values. You always want to end up associating independence with crime. That's their goal, obsession, we know. You always want to cover up, so, the values of self-determination with the problems of corruption. And we say no, that this can't be done. Nor can it do the opposite, to cover corruption with the values of self-determination; in this, totally agree, I would just miss. That's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm talking about. Because it is so important to defend values, universal rights, such as that of self-determination, as well as essential basic values in coexistence and good politics, such as the fight against corruption and the defence of integrity. That corruption doesn't cover self-determination; that self-determination doesn't cover corruption, obviously, huh? That everything comes out, that's all talked about, that everything can be exercised: the fight against corruption, and also the struggle for self-determination, at the same time. If we're republicans and we're defending a Catalan republic, it's for a lot of reasons, for a lot of people, and all of them. But one of the most important, one of the most important, is that we want to get out of a history of corruption. Why do we insist on leaving the 78th Regime behind? Because, among other problems, it is a rule that has proved to be a corrupt rule, a rule that has shown that the political class has a marked tendency to corruption, in which the oligarchy has shown itself to be corrupt, in which the monarchy has also shown itself to be corrupt, with proven and condemned cases. So let it all come to light, let it all be known and that all this, therefore, we also bring it here to Parliament, without any problems. We want to get over this state of affairs. And that's why we're doing a strategy against corruption, and that's why everything the honourable Councillor Budo has explained to you and what I'm going to explain to you now is important to us. He also asked me about the delegations of the Government of Catalonia, that you insist on naming « embassies, surely because you unconsciously recognize the independence of the Catalan Republic and therefore you already understand that what we have are embassies ; well, surely somehow its unconscious brings them. The delegations of the Government of Catalonia abroad – which, as you know, have been serving the country for many years, which are necessary, which are legal, which are legitimate, of course – therefore, at the last appearance we had in the Foreign Affairs Committee, Institutional Relations and Transparency, we explained, and it was published. And in that apparition of the past you were there, the lady Beltran was there; they were able to listen to it, they knew perfectly, with complete transparency, that it cost every thing we were doing. And in concrete terms, the delegations, 7_million_i_mig euros. That may seem a lot to them. I assure you, it's a very modest cipher to run the fifteen delegations we have now. Well modest compared, for example, to the assumptions of the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which multiplied by two hundred this xifra. And also quite different from what the Government of Andalusia invests in, in which you participate, a government that has a cost to its delegations of 24_million euros, and has not even half the representation to the foreigner that the Government of Catalonia has. Set_millions_i_mig in Catalonia for fifteen delegations, 24_millions of euros in Andalusia for many less. Listen to me, I'm not talking about us, so let's call the kids long enough, because where you guys are running seems like everything's getting a lot bigger. But it's that, above all, you went and talked to me about the U of October and the expenses related to the U of October. I wasn't a counselor at the time, but I do know perfectly well that they are getting rid of the reference that was called the 1st of October there are people who are victims of repression today. There are people who are in prison, among them my predecessor, who held a key role in initiating many of the projects to fight corruption, of which today we are gathering the fruits: Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency – the first one there was, huh? –, and that still today, an entire person, a person who begins to promote powerful initiatives against corruption, reaping the fruits of other things that had been done, but under the umbrella already recognized by a councillor, so he is now in prison. Why? So to organize a vote. And like him, so many others. You also made reference..., tried to demonize all those accused who collaborated in the effort of the U of October vote. They are people who have been persecuted, imputed. It's families who are stuck, who have trouble getting to the end of the month. And do you know why all these people are going through this triangle? So they worked together to organize or convene a referendum, a vote, a democratic exercise. And you have noses, you have noses that this is qualified as corruption. How would we qualify all that was spent by the Spanish government with beating up the people who went to vote on October 1st? Eighty-seven million euros, 87 million euros that were used to make a police deployment with military targets, huh? , and who led from here the government delegate at those times to Catalonia, Mr Enric Millo. And you're talking about giving a certain people a prize. And Mr. Enric Millo hasn't been rewarded? Isn't Mr. Enric Millo the one who runs the government of Andalusia's foreign relations and you named him for this place? Isn't that the person you appointed to run the government of Andalusia's external relations, which is spent 24_million euros on many fewer delegations than we have in Catalonia? Isn't he that person? , the person responsible for spending 87_million euros on beating people, people of age, young people, all citizens and citizens who went to vote that October 1st! This is the person you reward for making the international projection of Andalusia, when in his résumé the main element he has to highlight in international relations is that those images of the U of October came from the world, and all the international chains were able to explain how he abused the people he wanted to exercise his democratic right to vote. Well, that's all I think should be said. That there was corruption in Catalonia? Yeah. Precisely why it is so important to fight against it; it is obvious. There are episodes of the past of which none – none – of this hemisphere can feel proud; all the contrary. But I let him know that we are proud to think, design all the tools and instruments that are now allowing us to see how those things are no longer possible and how each time we advance more in the struggle against the practical evils of the Administration. What was corruption and what was corruption in autonomous Catalonia? Yeah. What has been the corruption of the Kingdom of Spain in general? Yeah, it's one of the states where there's been more corruption in Europe, recognized by international standards, than there's been more corruption in Europe, huh? This is precisely why Catalonia also needs to change and move forward. And we're doing it. With what? So proposing a series of measures, applying a series of measures that have been useful for some time now. And that's why, because we don't come from the non-res, that, for example, we are references in transparency and good governance. According to the independent platform Dyntra – an independent platform, has nothing to do with the Government of Catalonia – Catalonia is ahead of the State in transparency; ahead, leader of the race, with a score of almost 93_per_cent. What's the point? Get to the cent_per_cent. And we will make every effort to advance this perception on the part of the specialists, which is already quite remarkable. Also the fight against corruption forms part of the objectives of sustainable development of the 2030 Agenda of United Nations, and concretely the ODS 16 prominently, when talking about effective institutions. And, therefore, all that are the guidelines of our international bodies we believe and apply, of course. The strategy, too, of fighting corruption, left behind what has been done with an innovative methodology, with the participation of civil society and experts. Participation, participation processes also help us, and help us a lot, so that we can design policies and solid and useful tools to fight corruption; also, sometimes, they take references and examples of what has worked in other countries. We designed an anti-corruption strategy that the government approved a few weeks ago; I'm sure you, therefore, know perfectly well, were able to follow and are aware of it. A strategy consisting of twenty-i-five transversal actions to be deployed in two years. Examples of these twenty-five actions? The Honourable Councillor of Presidency has already donated some. One of them is that of the anonymous, one hundred_per_cent anonymous, and some of the goods that will start running in short time, because we will soon sign a deal with GlobeLeaks to adapt a free program; with Xnet, which is a platform recognized in this land, led by Mrs Simona Levi, and also with the Barcelona Assembly, with which we also collaborate, and rather, with this initiative and with others, so as to have the technological infrastructure to take it forward. Why do anonymous goods serve? So basically, because those alerters, those citizens, citizens who want to warn about potential practical evils can do it, and they can do it in a protected way. You know that at present the complaints system sometimes implies that the complainant is even known for the complaint, with his name, surnames, address and identification in general. We believe that the system, which has already been experienced in other countries, of anonymous beasts is a good system; it is a good system because the risk falls on the Administration; the Administration that, once a notice has been made through these anonymous beasts, obviously it must be carried out. The responsibility to discover, to verify if there are actually these practical ills found in the Administration. And it is the Administration, therefore, that has to pursue and, therefore, contrast whether these notices are used or not, and from here take the administrative and legal actions that correspond. It's a good system, it's working well in other places; so we think it's going to be able to apply here, and it's going to start applying quickly in a growing way. On the other hand, we also have another of these twenty-five tax actions, which, therefore, include collaboration with the Catalan Tax Agency and the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos so as to detect cases of corruption, especially in relation to money laundering. And to do that, then, the first thing we will do is organize a specific formation of all those who are already doing it, but what sense do you think they can enjoy more information, more tools to do it more effectively. Another of the measures, of these twenty-five measures, would, therefore, also advance in the selection processes, selection processes of public personnel based on merit, skills, eh? , and therefore open contests in which what is values follows the curriculum trajectory. That's what we already do, for example – we've already told them more than once –, for which it refers to the selection of government delegates abroad. And it would be very good – and when we talk about it, Mrs. Roldán – for the representatives of your ruling party, from Andalusia or Madrid, why can they also apply it, huh? It is not a complicated system and guarantees that, therefore, there is a selection process just and that the best is what is selected to be delegated. We will also be pilot testing – starting this year – in the field of health, to find or direct places in the public health system of Catalonia. Also another of the twenty-five serious actions in relation to the public contract, with the minimization of the risk of non-integrated actions. With this system, therefore, we hope that we will still increase transparency levels in public procurement, of which we already enjoy. According to the qualifying agencies in Catalonia there is only 18,6_percent of harmonised contracts that earn an offer, while the level in the Spanish State rises to 25_per_cent. The European Commission considers that the only offers, in order to be successful, should not exceed 20_percent in the competitions. So, miri, here in the case of Catalonia we are per under this index recommended for the European Commission, in the case of the Spanish midwife are per over. Therefore, we must continue with this effort to ensure that the competitions are as open as possible and that tenders are actually accessible to all those companies that can present themselves and that want to present themselves. One last case of this..., one last example of these twenty-five actions, also in the field of education. Certainly, one of the proposals that emerged from the participation process. In this process of participation there have been more than..., well, there have been 178 useful contributions, and let's say that of the twenty-five actions that we quote from the anti-corruption strategy more than half were inspired, were based in whole or in part on these proposals that came from the process of participation. Therefore, participation processes also help to fight against practical evils and advance in this land. So, well, one of these cases that has arisen, precisely, from this process of participation, is that the educational community, huh? the associations of mothers and fathers of the schools and the communities, also, the collections of teachers, have suggested, that it is that there is training for the youngest in relation to the concept of "public and collective integrity". That's important, because the Administration has to be ahead, and we have to lead and we have to lead by example, but in this, we either put ourselves all or we won't finish solving it; it's also a matter of collective complicity. So, well, let's start with the schools, too, and here, then, let's go out and define the concrete actions that, with permanent dialogue with the educational community, we end up drawing. I quote an example they applied to Austria, which I don't say is what we apply here, huh? I'm not saying that it's what we're going to do here, but it's done there, and it stands out for its simplicity. They developed a test for the students in which they asked if they had optional answers and the students had to answer. One of the questions, for example, was: "What would you do as a student, as a young student, if earlier, before going to the exam, and find or have a copy of this exam? What would you do? You'd get between your colleagues; you'd get away with getting better notice than other competing students, or you'd teach the teacher? Well, we all know how tender you have been, sometimes the dying being is well valued, or, even so, it's considered admirable, isn't it? So no, it's from the youngest ages that we can start fighting this murder, that after we're big, so it can also get bigger. And, therefore, prove to the students that the most correct... in case I have a tempt to cheat, huh? The right thing to do is to do what they do and not take advantage of it to benefit from a difference, so that's also important. We need to evolve, and we need to evolve because awareness is important. The general awareness of society, and also – my government partners know it perfectly – in one government, in one administration, we all have to go to one. And that's what I'm extending to all groups, the offer to work on the design of all policies to fight corruption, because we need it, because we need to move forward on this. All of us are interested and all of us want to eradicate practical evils. That's why I, Mrs Roldán, am showing you my surprise, isn't it? , because the emphasis is on retreating practical from the past that we are overcoming, that we are trying to make impossible, with all these measures of which I speak, and that it predominates criticism and prevails even in some cases, as I have mentioned, the book by the side of the collaboration. I believe that collaboration is necessary here. Catalonia has, since twelve years ago, an Anti-Fraud Office that is a pioneer in the State, which puts in the way of anonymous complaints, as we will also put them from the Government of Catalonia. Well, listen, you and other parties represented here govern other autonomous communities that have not yet contemplated this; we offer ourselves to share this type of initiative. I think it would be very good that there, for example, where you govern, in Andalusia or in the Community of Madrid, so some of these things can also be shared. I think it would be very noble and that, in addition to that, it would also help the respective societies to trust their political leaders. In Andalusia, the government of which you participate together with the People's Party does, has a portal of transparency. A transparency portal where travel expenses are reflected, with a small problem, and it is that in the exercise of 2019, the past exercise, this information is not, it is vacant, it is empty. You here have made us about two thousand requests for information and questions, in good part related to transparency issues. Welcome, it's a pride to be able to answer, happy to be able to answer all of these questions and request information. From these, north, roughly, they are about the journeys we have made at the length of the year 2019. And I ask you too: why don't you ask, that, too, in Andalusia? On the portal of transparency, unlike our portal of transparency, there is no explanation of any of the journeys that have taken place. Why don't you do it to the Madrid Community? , on the only trip that is the figure of President Díaz Ayuso..., in the Government of which you also collaborate, together with the People's Party. Mrs. Diaz Ayuso, if I'm not mistaken, is part of the Popular Party. Why don't you ask her? Why don't you ask the Government of Madrid, of the Community of Madrid? How many lives have they made? , let them explain the expenses. Because the only one... in figure one, a trip from Mrs. Díaz Ayuso to Barcelona. I already understand that it turns out very difficult, very difficult, to update the full of Excel, but, listen, we do. We can share it, we can explain how it's fan. It's not that complicated to explain the expenses and the journeys they make. Or perhaps it's by mistake; perhaps it's just that in this case, Mrs. Díaz Ayuso, President of the Community of Madrid, went to Saudi Arabia a little while ago in a trip paid for the Atlétic of Madrid. Maybe that's why he neglected it. Cases of corruption. You say, "Don't come here to teach us lessons. Home, do you mean you're the most authorized to say you don't teach them? Well, I don't know, maybe you do think they're capable of giving lessons. And I've already commented on them more than once, so, some cases that, man, I'd say before I learned lessons about the fight against corruption, they'd go over, and there's no way, they wouldn't go over. I've reminded them a lot of times. Or don't they remember the case of Cazorla, when his candidate for mayor of Almeria was accused of a corporate crime? Or the Spartan case, don't you remember? , with his resigning mayor of the charge charged for a case of prevarication. Or the Renderera case, with the arrest per fraud in your mayor's contract award to Arroyomolinos, huh? , one of the few mayors who won the year 2015. And in the last municipal elections, let's not say. I mean, few mayors they have, little institutional representation they have, and there's no case, huh? , which you can exhibit. They can assume a few percent of charges for very high – very high corruption. And if Catalonia can't assume that, in the Catalan municipalities, it's because you hold responsibility exactly how many? Zero. Zero municipis a Catalunya. But where they have responsibilities, there have been cases of corruption. In the same way as the People's Party. I suppose they're doing the surgery now. They will also say, therefore, their view of the subject. But, listen, when we talk about anonymous goods and propose this system, it's not because we do. Does the case of Ana Garrido sound like you? The one who won the Anti-Corruption award of the NGO Transparency International the year 2018, that's to say, the past year. I don't talk to you about the Bárcenas case, the Gürtel plot anymore; it's that if you started talking about this we would never end up with this debate, we'd be until the other hours of the morning just quoting the list of the People's Party corruption cases. But I quote you in this case because I think it's important to hear what we're doing in Catalonia. It is to say, if Mrs. Ana Garrido, this complaint could have been made through an anonymous system, if it could have been protected in her struggle against practical evils, she would not have passed all the bad trags that she went through, could not have made her life impossible, as they did. Therefore, it is important to know that these things citizenry can do, and that it can do them with proper protection. And the maximum protection is that they can do it from anonymity and not be victims of reprisal. So, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, and of all the other groups, I encourage them to move forward, to move forward together, to do more every time, huh? , to continue, to continue asking, asking, inciting, demanding debates about the fight against corruption. I encourage them to do so, because I am delighted to come out here, to explain what we do, and also to tell them that it would be good not only for those who appear on behalf of the government to explain how we intend to do it, but also for you, huh? And they ask them, and they ask them very cordially: to work together in this effort to fight corruption, which is a shacra that affects us all, to which they govern, of course – of course. And we take responsibility and we also take responsibility for doing something, like what I've been explaining to them. Good politics is based on trust. If there is no trust it is very difficult for there to be good politics or good practices on the ground of the public thing. And that's why I think we all need to be very conscious. And above all in difficult times, and above all – and this is a message that I would like to address in a special way to opposition groups – when complicated times come and, surely, political confrontation, which is legitimate, pushes all. These are the moments when we have to agree more on those essential things in which we all agree, and one of them is the struggle for a net society and a whole society. And it's not in the hard times that we have to think the truth may be better than it's all said. No, no, It is precisely at these times when it must be more transparent, it is at these times when all the truth must be said, when all the information that is required must be available. Why? Because the truth, transparency is what makes us stronger, and it makes us stronger through trust. And if the citizens see that we explain everything, that we have nothing to store, that we are transparent, that we honestly fight against all the storm and all the storm of corruption, it's when we count with more confidence on the part of the citizens. This is our ambition and this is our company as rulers of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.171.0	Thank you, Counselor. We are now continuing the debate with the interventions of the representatives of the parliamentary groups to fix their position, for a maximum of fifteen minutes per group and seven minutes and a half per subgroup. In the first place, it has the word on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.172.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, first of all, to say that we were told that only Counsellor Bosch was going to answer us, and that is why I did not refer to Mrs Budó, in this case, nor to Mr Aragonès, who, by the way, it is a pity that he left, because he came out here to accuse me of falsehoods, in fact, he only said that, throws the stone and hides his hand. We don't know what falsehoods he meant. I imagine that perhaps he has run to denounce me for slanders, because, of course, so many falsehoods, according to him, I said that I would already like to be explained to me, because no, we have not said any falsehood. And, the truth, that the author of « Spain steals from us, that that was indeed false, tell me that I say falsehoods, what do you want me to say to him? [[Greetings.]] But it doesn't matter – it doesn't matter. Mr. Aragonès, who shared it with Mrs. Budó, who we have done here a totum revolutionutum... Of course, now it turns out that coming here and explaining the corruption cases of the different separatist governments that we have had so far is a totum revolutionutum. No, no, What is happening is that, since they have not stopped using their office for years to carry the money that did not belong to them, we have to explain it here. And yes, we took quite a while, because there were and there are many cases of corruption. And the truth is that I didn't expect you to take Mrs. Budó, counselor, the truth is that you didn't; that you come here to talk and give lessons in ethics, good practices... Man, what do you want me to tell you, Mrs. Budó? If this is always going to persecute him: « Meritxell Budó paid with public money a trip to Brussels, although then rectified, but for the insults and threats received. With the money of all the citizens you went to see the fugitive from justice. [[Greetings.]] And you come here to give lessons in ethics and good manners, Mrs. Budó. No, no; look: "The tour of mayors in charge of the public treasury. You're the one who took out the good stuff they do everything, Mrs. Budó. Well, I'm telling you, no – I'm telling you, no – they don't do everything right. And that is why this monographic plenum of corruption and seeking solutions was so necessary; it is not enough to come here to make the announcement as they always do, we must seek solutions and we must apply them. You were talking about transparency, you were taking heart of how citizens can access information. Yes, that's fine, citizens can access the information, and maybe we opposition MPs will have to use those channels, because what it is to answer us here to the questions we ask them, nothing at all – nothing at all – they answer absolutely nothing. [[Greetings.]] I have lost sight of the fact that both I and my colleagues..., and we have even been given protection from the Bureau, protection from the legal services, because you do not answer, because your government is opaque, because you evade the information we ask of you. How do you come here to get transparency out of your chest? You are of everything, less transparent, I can tell you. And it is also that you even said, Mrs Budó, that corruption is not institutionalized, that the problem is that you do not stop monitoring them and do not stop observing them. Are you complaining about that, too? – Are you complaining about that too? What's the matter, what don't you want? The usual, impunity, no one watching them, no one watching them, no one watching them, and, above all, no one catching them, that's what's happened, they've been caught with their hands in the pocket of Catalans. And they can't stand it. I, of what Mr Bosch has also said, actually, I don't know, I don't know what to say, Mr Bosch, because I've already lost a little attention, when you've come here to yell at me – to scream at me – and, not only happy with that, you told me that I deserved it. You know what, Mr. Bosch? No one deserves to be yelled at, no one deserves it, not even me. [[Greetings.]] Not even me, Mr. Bosch, not even me. Those of manners, those of good manners, those of education, those who complain that we crack, happen to come here to yell at me and tell me that I deserve it. Well, look, I'm telling you one thing, no matter how much you yell at me, no matter how much you try to run us down, you're not going to be right, you're not going to confuse the citizens, you're not going to get us to shut up, Mr Bosch. [[Greetings.]] Today you had to come here to talk about corruption. What happens, which, as always, then, has drained the lump, has put the fan, has blamed the others. He has spoken even here, and he has made me a biography of my professors that I have had, those that I haven't had... I think that Catalans don't care much, maybe you do, but Catalans today wanted to hear about corruption. And, look, to speak of falsehoods neither are you, Mr Bosch. I'm going to tell you things that you've told us here. He told us, for example, about the case of Cazorla, which affects Citizens. Do you know where that person is right now? Absolute, absolved from justice, the Cazorla case. The Spartan case, do you know where the person affected by the case is? At home. The Enredadera case, in Arroyomolinos, expelled from the party. [[Greetings.]] That's what we do with those who put their hands in the citizens' pocket, sending them home; not like you, who put them to take a break. See if they take note – see if they take note. Since he is so informed of the cases, let's see if he takes note of the solutions we carry out in Citizens. Not a single corrupt man getting a euro from the citizens, not one, Mr Bosch. Let them take note, so much so that they will implement so many measures with the fight against corruption. And, by the way, since you like to be so informed, that you were even talking about Andalusia, you also have to update Excel, and that you know that in Andalusia we have already launched the Anti-Fraud Office. And I also tell you that there are four hundred governments in which Citizens are in, four hundred governments throughout Spain; by the way, here, in Sant Vicenç dels Horts. Report a little bit more, Mr Bosch. [[Greetings.]] Look, the truth is that I didn't expect much from you, because you always do the same: you come here, attack the opposition, explain nothing and take no consideration of what we tell you. You like to say that you are managers of taxpayers' money, which is true, but then put on lights, put on transparency, because you are handling, I insist, the money with opacity and you spend it on what you don't have to spend it on. And we have seen it with the sentence that condemned his party mates for embezzlement. You came here to say that if I have studied law and know when they are feeling them... Yes, yes; what I don't know is if you have it very clear. Firm sentence that condemns his colleagues for embezzlement. To Mr Junqueras and Mr Romeva, who you said in Esquerra no one has put their hand in their pocket. Well, yes, corruption cases from your party, too. Esquerra Republicana, Mr Junqueras, Mr Romeva, firm sentence for embezzlement, in addition to sedition, which also, but as in this case we talk about corruption and the money of all Catalans, for I speak to you about this. So please – please – stop trying to manipulate with the truth; stop trying to manipulate with the truth and explain to me how they are going to do so that that money that all Catalans embezzled in their illegal referendum of October 1st, in their coup to democracy in Catalonia, go back to where he never had to leave, to the things destined for social services. Money that was all Catalans. How are you going to do that, Mr. Bosch? What steps will your Government take to recover this money, which, I insist – a firm sentence – has justice already said that you have embezzled? I'm asking you. I think it is a very simple question that you will be able to answer me easily. But not only that: how are you going to prevent all these cases of corruption that I have told you about from happening again? Mrs Budó said that corruption is not institutionalized, but, of course, I insist: case Banca Catalana, case Pujol, case Millet, case Palau, ITV, Work, Adigsa, Pretòria, Petrum, case Mercuri, Innova, Hisenda, case Ferrocarrils... All that has happened here in Catalonia. How can you say that corruption is not institutionalized? And the problem and the most serious and the worst is that it continues to happen today. What are you going to do with Mr. Figueras? Do you intend to take any preventive measures, even if it is preventive, or are you going to continue to take a leave of all Catalans as if nothing had happened here at all? What are you going to do, Mr. Counselor? Look, you have ruled for decades in Catalonia without solving the outstanding social challenges, but you have solved to the thousand wonders the political and economic future of your colleagues, the friends of the process, those who are in tune with you. And you know perfectly well that there is corruption and yet you spend the day talking about the monotheme, you spend the day talking about the process, and you don't jump, you don't get to work, you don't take any action, you don't even put in place the mechanisms we already have. I insist, again, that Mr Torrent prevented the Anti-Fraud Office from continuing to investigate the syndic of the process, the syndic of heavinesses, Mr Ribó, who is suspected of having been benefited by the corrupt plot of 3_per_cent. So you don't do anything at all, but you put sticks on top of the wheels. It's just a shame. And they come up here to breastfeed. Of what? Getting a chest out of what, Mr. Counselor? Look, it's very serious – it's very serious – and the cases we have of corruption in Catalonia are very serious. And I no longer speak of things of the past; I speak today. Very serious. I insist on the case of the Secretary of l'Esport and other cases that we have already talked about here. It is indecent the dripping of bureaucratic fees, the drip they have of offices, advisors councils, etcetera, which only serve to place the friends, again. You have not only complicated the lives of citizens, but have also allowed those who stole from you to continue to do so with complete impunity, and even to display the laurels of the homeland, as in the case of Mr Pujol, who venerate you, you who are incapable of doing here any kind of criticism, who have taken you to TV3 to talk about 0.7_per_cent of cooperation. Look, I..., you asked... It's very funny because you asked to make a constructive exhibition here when you've dedicated yourself to doing the opposite – the opposite. It's okay, we know them, too, and they always keep us from the same thing. But, look, I am going to spend all the time I have left now to speak precisely of the measures that we are presenting in this House of corruption. Look – I'm going through here, I'm going through the sheets – first of all, transparency measures. You, who's the Transparency Advisor. At present, I insist, the Government of the Generalitat is very opaque in its management. We are used to, as I said, asking written questions and not answering us, asking questions in the oral control session and no one answers us, giving us protection the Bureau and still not answering us... And when you want – which you deny with your head – I give you the report that we have of the legal services where it clearly says that they have the duty to answer, they give them a deadline and they do not do it. We've been given extra questions in the control session, extra questions, because you don't answer. Therefore, transparency mechanisms. Because, yes, we have the right to know what the government is doing; we have the right, as Members of the opposition that we are, to monitor the actions that this government is doing, even though Mrs Budó does not like anything that the prosecutor does. When someone has nothing to hide he has no problem being asked and taxed. So everyone gets their own consequences. Look, you were talking to me about delegations, too, weren't you? , which you have; yes, delegations which you obviously have in other autonomous communities. The problem is the use you give those delegations. You use them to advertise the process. You use them as a loudspeaker – again – of yours, you obviously also use them to buy wills with those lobbies that you hire... And that is the activity that these delegations have. No more or less. And you know what happens? That my partner Susana Beltrán is sick of asking you and you don't answer; that we don't know the money you spend, that we have a right to know that information, Mr Bosch. For when? We here, in this House of corruption, one of the measures is precisely aimed at transparency. On the other hand, we will also insist on respect for the legal framework, because that is the best ally in the fight against corruption; defending it and being exemplary is an obligation of every public representative. And I'm going to tell you something, which I think is first of all legal, since you were appealing to my legal status. Look, court sentences have to be enforced all – all – not just those that give them reason, those that they like and those that they don't like. But, unfortunately, we already have too many examples of how little you respect court judgments and how little you respect our rule of law. We therefore want this plenary to also serve to reaffirm our commitment to our existing legal system, to the Constitution, to the Statute of autonomy, and to commit ourselves here to comply with and enforce all judicial decisions. Without exception, Mr. Counsellor: the ones they like and the ones they don't like. And, of course, also to collaborate with the investigations into corruption carried out by the judicial bodies and the supervisors. And also a commitment to cease preventively – and I insist on this because it seems to me to be fundamental – to all those political appointees who are involved in an investigation into corruption. We also want to talk – and one of the measures we are presenting is in this regard – about the financing of political parties; that there is funding in political parties; that citizens have the right to know who has voluntarily contributed money for the operation of political formation and why it matters. And this is the only way to ensure that parties and public representatives act in accordance with the interests of citizens and regardless of criteria. We do not want to see any more cases of illegal financing. We do not want to go back to dawn with more cases of illegal financing. We also want to work for independent monitoring bodies. Internal control bodies, officials of public administrations are the first anti-corruption front. It is therefore essential to ensure their independence from those who may be the subject of their investigation. More measures – and I'm going to go fast because time is running out. We also want to protect public revenue by combating tax fraud and undue tax benefits. Mr. Bosch, I don't know if I'm going to have to yell at you, too, because since you don't pay attention to anything I'm saying to you... [[Greetings.]] So much that they demand respect, that it be mutual – that it be mutual, that it be mutual. I've been taking notes all along about what you said. Anyway, I'm on. I see you don't care, but surely the citizens who are listening to us are sure that they do. We also want subsidies from the Government of the Generalitat to contribute to social welfare. The grants granted by the Administration to entities and organizations should be translated into the welfare of all Catalans. And if not, it turns out that it becomes a covert method to finance entities led by people close to the government who help spread the same message as the government launches or also as a way to try to influence their behavior or even to buy their silence. Squandering a single euro to associations whose activity does not bring anything to society and whose real aim is to give public money to political friends to reward them or condition them is also a form of corruption. So, we, from here, ask that this corrupt practice be brought to an end. It is more the measures that we present in this plenary, which we will have the opportunity to discuss next day, but look, I want to say one thing: the Catalans are sick of it now, the Catalans are tired of the monotheme of the process and to see you starring scandals and, therefore, we are here and in the later... I insist, in the subsequent intervention we will give more details of these measures. Look, our party has always argued that it is essential to put the fight against corruption and the regeneration of public institutions at the centre of the political debate. Because we are convinced that another Catalonia is possible, a Catalonia without corruption, with honest politicians who manage well what is of all and we will certainly continue to work so that it is. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.173.0	Then there is the word, in the name of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC - Units for Forwarding, the deputy Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.174.0	Thank you, President. Greetings to the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office and his team. MPs and members of the Government, MPs and MPs, in the last four years, in these four or five years, we in Parliament have created two commissions on corruption and tax fraud. One investigation and another study, commissions from which conclusions and recommendations have been approved. At the back, 243. In other words, we have been talking a lot about this because, as at least, my parliamentary group has always considered that corruption has a dissolving character for democracy and, at the same time, a democracy that, from this point of view, is weak, from our point of view, a camp especially adobed because corruption fields without obstacles, but also because political options that make populism its flag, open up on the way. And it is true that there is a requirement for democratic regeneration, and that this requirement for democratic regeneration must have its consequences in the functioning of our administrations and specifically in the model of public function of our institutions. I have already announced that some of the motions for resolutions have come to this end. It is also obvious, from our point of view, that the volume, the type of skills attributed to each administration and, above all, the configuration of its financing system determines or can determine, in good part, the weaknesses or strengths of each administration before the risks of corruption. That, as a retruc, has an effect like that, from our vision, an effect to strengthen or weaken the rules of the game of our democracy. Also, if the operation, the skills and the configuration of public administration funding sources can configure corruption risk spaces, the public function model and the attribution of responsibilities also play a role, from this point of view, right? Therefore, from the visit of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Units to Advance, carefully read the reality and expectations of the citizenry in order to proceed to a regeneration of the democratic quality by mediating the adoption of reforms and measures that pose the common good and the general interest of people, in short, at the center of concern and political action. That is to say, that it is an ethical and not cynical approach to politics, able to contribute to the construction of a just, equal, decent and dignified society. It is necessary to fight corruption because, as the Councillor said, corruption is intrinsically incompatible with democracy, which obliges various measures which, in fact, have already been adopted, also the result of the situations in which we have found ourselves in the country, as well as the conclusions of these commissions of investigation and study, right? A scrupulous transparency to a more accurate regulation of public contracts, given that public contracts have a sensitive role to play, right? , as the main focus of corruption, the better of the monitoring and sanctioning bodies against the fight, against tax fraud, tax havens and the indispensable sanction of the authors. Cal, like society, a deep reflection and change in a culture of understanding corruption and corruption. Because it is not possible to tackle the fight against corruption without taking account of the problems of this natural one, where the private sector is obviously also involved. The change in the policy of « xanxullo – I will be forgiven the word « xanxullo, which is certainly not in Pompeu Fabra, but we all understand. Corruption is explained in words – not mine, but by Mr Andreu Claret – « in the purchase of public servers and in the silence of society that our country, until recently, in certain stages, was clamorous. As the prosecutor said against corruption in Barcelona, Mr. Emilio Sánchez Ulled, in one of his appearances in one of these commissions that I explained to him, he said that structural corruption, the one that is given to a very determined environment................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... , the types of support: those who wanted it for their person, for their political formation and, finally, for social support, right? And it was in this area of interaction – he said –, of coexistence or capitalism, of connivance, where we are found or where the current perversions of our institutional system are found. I think we've moved on, huh? I think we've come forward with some of the conclusions, not all of them, some of the conclusions of these commissions of inquiry and study. It's not that far away – someone didn't speak this late – it's not so far away from that phrase that was uttered just from this chair of my front, which man said: "You have a problem and you have a name: three_per_cent. It was a prophetic phrase, wasn't it? But there are also so many statements that we have listened, too, to this Parliament – I will not be faithful to Pompey Fabra again, eh? , and I will use a colloquial expression, some expressions, which we have also listened to in this Parliament, when trying to confuse the traffic of influences with economic dynamics. I'm not talking about the author, because you all have to keep it in mind. Or the much commented "to go with one hand to the front or the back, to refer to a collection of Ferraris. I think we need to do some thinking around these things, don't we? How could some things have failed? How can control organs sometimes fail? Or, rather, why do administrations ignore those recommendations that come from control agencies? This reflection should also lead us to legislate to strengthen precisely the role and attributions of these tax and control bodies. I am referring to three in concrete terms: the intervention of the Generality, the Union of Accounts and the Anti-Fraud Office. Because, going back to three per cent... well, union reports giving clues that there were some things that weren't going well, there wasn't. In concrete terms, in 2014, the Union already warned of irregular practices in Infrastructures. How much. The next report has been demolishing. But it was also the Union of Accounts that alerted – not Ciutadans –, which alerted that something was happening in the contract of the Institution of Catalan Letters. The first party that asked about this issue – reading the report of the Union – was ours. From this discovery of cases that, sometimes, the Union of Accounts in its reports has announced, some have derived in judicial instruction. And we'll have to see how it ends. It is true that until there is a firm feeling, listen, here we must presume the innocence of everyone. Now, yes, it is true that in some certain political space – that has gone mutating from Convergence to the present space... in fact, I think it still feels the same space–, there is a certain pattern, there has been a certain pattern of behavior, which I hope from now on has not produced more. But we have already seen this in a judgment – that it is true that the Supreme Court is being resorted to –, that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia issued a judgment on private companies, managers and three-members of the formation – Mr. Osàcar or Mr. Viloca – and doping in the form of donations to foundations and electoral doping. It was also used in the Palau case. He saw: interposable companies to pay for election work. And as we could also see – certainly, in this case the corporation did not want to audit, right? , which had passed to one of the companies that also seemed to have billed, through her, electoral work: a producer of TV3. It seems to me that this late has been spoken of: Triacom. But I'm not gonna do the list the way it was before, am I? I believe that here a part of the problem that some of the predecessors of this party considered and considered the country and its institutions as something of their property. And that explains some of the things that happened, but it also explains some of the things that are happening right now, right? If not, as explained by this entry – as if it were, then, Attila – to the public television in our country of the entire group of deputies and deputies at the Congress of Deputies of Junts per Catalunya to a TV programme3 – that it must be that it is not ours, no, that it must be itss – to congratulate and embrace the president of the Generality of Catalonia efusively? It is this view that the country is one of yours, and that the country is one of yours to be able to go through reprehensible things, so, sometimes, there's a mutt, isn't there? And as they follow it – from the other point of view – they follow it all and it all... Miri, my Parliamentary Group would like to know who are the donors of Mr Carles Puigdemont or the Council of the..., this name«Council of the Republic to analyze and clarify that, in some case, there is no collusion of interested people. In fact, Mr. Carles Puigdemont said that he would make public all these donors, that he would make audits and – as so many announcements he has made – we are still waiting. But this is a debate, too, about the ethics of the performances. From the ethics of the actions and attitudes that the institutions must maintain, from our point of view, from the point of view of everything. Some for the others. And I'm referring to the heavyweight union, the syndicate of Greuges. The syndic has finished his term. And some personal attitudes – and I'm just focusing on this camp, that of personal attitudes – question its figure. We believe that the time has come for you to present your irrevocable and immediate resignation. And that, provisionally, you exercise the deputy general of the syndicate until, in the Parliament of Catalonia, we continue to agree all and all the deputies in a syndicate or syndicate that you represent to us all. [[Greetings.]] Already the announcement that this will be one of the motions for resolutions that we will present. And we'll call the sign that he's doing this step. I think I'd honor him. Finally, I think we need to legislate to strengthen public service. Also to strengthen the role of the public leadership, to reduce the temporality in the public sector and to strengthen the role independent of the control organs. The Government may choose to introduce better public resources management, or it may do what the Government of the Generality has done in this country in the past few years: many words and few facts. He introduced us to the five-twenty-five measures two weeks... well, it coincided with the day... the day this debate had to be produced. The government must move forward in all measures to exemplify this work – which I believe is a match for all of us in this country – to do, to put borders, walls, at the temples of corruption. Members of Parliament, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.175.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos is the turn of Congresswoman Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.176.0	Bona tarda, MPs, MPs, members of the Bureau. We would also like to greet the members of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia and comment that we have actually been reading with great attention all the reports they make, the documentation they have sent us to the parliamentary groups in front of the debate we have in this House, and to inform them that some of the issues that arise will also serve our motions for resolution. And it serves this, too, to begin by thanking the members of the Anti-Fraud Office, but it also serves all those entities, all those people who work day by day in the fight of corruption, who make politics an honest thing; you will function and public workers, citizens anonymously, organizations and entities, such as the Xnet organisation – which is one of the ones that brought us here to Parliament the Law Proposal for the protection of whistleblowers. It is all these people who make our country a cleaner and better country, who provide us with tools and tools to shield us from corruption in the future. In this sense, also a special recognition precisely to those citizens and citizens who when they denounce corruption until they are able to risk their work, their life, to denounce abuses of power. And they're, what we say, the corruption alerters. A record here at Chelsea Manning, Edward Snowden, Julian Assange or Hervé Falciani, to put some of the examples. The challenge of this Parliament is to bring forward the law protecting alerters. Unfortunately, with the short legislature that we will have and the time that we are probably not able to do in this legislature, but we do place all the groups that are involved in the question to finish the work of the question, to let it go, because when there is again a legislature we can enter directly and agile the approval of this law, which is essential to protect the Government of Catalonia and to protect those people who are alert to corruption. And no, corruption is not a curse inherent in being human. A reading of these essentialists that says that power corrupts everyone, that when it comes to power everyone is corrupt. So no, not everybody; not everyone. A lot of people don't know. There are mainly those who, when they arrive at places of power, places of management of resources, believe that the common good, that public resources are theirs, that the State is its home. And, obviously, how not to remember Marta Ferrusola's famous phrase when she commented that she had felt expelled from her home when the Government of the Government of Catalonia had lost. This, "his house. The public thing understands as a domestic matter, as the private house of which one uses, abuses and disposes as if it were its absolute property. Thirty years ago in the power of Convergence and Union without practically alternation, Catalonia was, in fact, a domestic member of Convergence and Union. And that, for many, Convergence and Union was Catalonia. Not just Catalonia, that's also true. Corruption has come to turn, in a few moments, into a form of government both in Catalonia and in the State; in a way to put public money into the service of a few privileged, corrupt and corrupt, political and big business people. Some who looked at the other side as they shared the money in envelopes. Corruption gathered, without much discussion, to Aznar, Pujol and Felipe González. Corruption is one of the bodies that connects seemingly opposite elites, but that share a common goal: to rule for their friends. The costs were generalised in the public work of this country; we saw airports that did not work and that were absolutely overvalued. All this became an authentic institutional political and economic model. The capitalism of friends. Moreover, corruption is a major economic problem, which is already 16,000_million per year per tax fraud. That's to say, every city pays a thousand euros a month to make up for this money. But the citizenry came out on the street. He went out to the street and said enough to Madrid, Seville, the Corunya, Zaragoza... Politics could not continue to elongate people. Politics could not serve only the interests of politicians and the great entrepreneurs and the lobbyists and the Ibex 35. Politics could not only be the world of the powerful. This was, in part, the 15-M: a more demanding citizenry that it no longer tolerates practices and that it wants a new political culture based on honesty, transparency, common good and progress in democracy. In this last decade we have advanced much in the knowledge of abuses and corruptions of the political class. Corruption and its political gain have become a central element of the last few years. I can remember, without going any further, the motion of censure in Rajoy to be the most corrupt party in Europe, and with inclusive judgment. Also remember the case of the 3_per_cent of Pujol. May I remind you, and very much. And I have to demand that I donate my face. That I donate my face to speak of 3_per_cent and not 0,7_per_cent of development cooperation, how we had to attend, with great shame– above all the people we have worked on, in the world of development cooperation– to see how the figure of 3_per_cent speaking of 0,7 was whitened. Actually, it seemed like a shame to us. [[Greetings.]] We have seen the judgment of the case of the EROs of Andalusia, an exemplary gain. We have also seen corruption in the royal family, with Urdangarin convicted, with a princess who does not read and do not understand what she signs – although she has been for a long time leading the solidarity foundation of "the Box", which one thinks that, as a minimum, to read and to hear what she signs, should not be later – and a king emeritus to whom no one will judge or investigate, but who also thinks that the country is his own, and that nothing happens, they do what they do. This is system corruption. We also saw the first party condemned for corruption in Europe: the People's Party. The People's Party, with which Ciutadans wants to reform and save Spain and make a constitutionalist front, with the invaluable support also of the ultrathreat. The ultrathreat that he wanted to hide after he had lived for twenty years. The Popular Party with which Ciutadans now wants to go together to Catalonia. Because, of course, the People's Party in Catalonia does not have to have many cases of corruption, because as it has not ruled practically in place, and the only one that has ruled – that it was at the Assembly of Badalona and Castelldefels – Mr Albiol, said that, overall, to the People's Party, well, yes, there were some cases of corruption, fourteen or fifteen, but that, go, there was no such thing. So with this Popular Party is with which Ciutadans now wants to go together to Catalonia. Tell me who you're with... But well, I'm not going to quote all the cases here and in the state, because we'll never end up at this time of intervention. We really want to make a purposeful intervention, because in the end ending corruption is a matter of political will. Yes, in line with some of the recommendations made by girls for institutions and organizations that are experts in the fight against corruption, we would also like this Ple to be served to look forward to the future, to say to people that no, that not all policies are the same, that not everyone is coming and is bought, that there are those who defend the common good, the rights of everyone, the collective benefit, over private wealth. That is why we want to take advantage of this Ple to send this message to the citizenry: politics, the management of the common good can be clear, honest and transparent. Some ideas we want to move forward: we need to legislate and be strong against rotating doors. Preventing the rotating doors between large companies and public administration – especially between large companies and political parties – is still a challenge before which the citizenry finds itself. It is not tolerable that there are undertakings that have public contracts with privileges of information and that are then assisted, those people who have ruled, to the boards of directors. Close to the turntable doors. The financing of political parties. Political parties are an indispensable tool for our democracies. We are guardians of public interests and we must be controlled with special care. It may reform the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, ensure greater transparency and limit debt and election expenses. Because it's intolerable that there are parties that go after elections and that depend on whether a banker takes off the phone or not, and you see what's changing. For this reason, it is vitally important that its system of financing depends, above all, on public resources and limited private contributions from militants or sympathizers. We, for example, made use of campaign inputs and also the micro-credit system. We have to be curios. We need to be curious about democracy and equate the demands we make on the political party with the foundations of the political parties. Another aspect: penis hardening in the Penal Code. It must be inflexible with corruption; it must be exemplary for a new political culture. And an example would be to include in the Criminal Code the criminalization of irregular funding of political parties and extend the terms for the prescription. Legislative mechanisms of renewal, transparency and strengthening of public procurement mechanisms. Limiting warrants. Guarantee Public charges charged for corruption cases, in cases of propitious benefits, leave the charge until the shipment is resolved. Establish a maximum amount for all public bodies as a function of their responsibility and thus prevent a political class removed from the living conditions of the majority of the population. We have already talked about the protection of alerters, a key figure to fight corruption. On behalf of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, we guarantee our commitment and our involvement in the fight against corruption and in favour of the regeneration of institutions for the conformation of this new political culture. In addition, a general _marc of fighting against corruption that reinforces the figure of the complainant. It seems vital to us, as we have already put into the coalition program with the PSOE and the confederal group, the need for a renewal of the system's foundational institutions, with particular interest and urgency in the institutions of the judiciary. We believe that we are ahead of a unique opportunity, since the new division of power must be an opportunity to make some clearer and more reasonable rules of the game. It is an opportunity to clean up institutions, to put together the culture of the single party or those who think the institutions are theirs. And so is Catalonia. Let's move on here, too, to a different conception of power. After so many years of convergence governments, after his hereus– of his convergent gene now transformed into Junts for Catalonia–, we must leave behind this heritage of public benefits, of the Administration, of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. We have to start a new stage, too here. And we also make a call not to use repression, the persecution of independence at the time of talking about cases of corruption, because not everyone is having investigations into corruption. Not all independent parties have cases of corruption. And when it is asked that there be appearances, when it is asked that it is given explanation, we cannot always say that it is because there is persecution and political repression. That they come to us, that they give us the explanations to be given and that they let the proceedings and investigations continue. And, for another band – and in dedication to the proposed group – Ciutadans presents this Ple presenting himself as a sort of Torquemada of corruption, which is rude and which goes on to denounce all the corruption that has gone on. The party that is turned into the People's Party crossover, which is the most corrupt party in Europe, which kept Mr Rajoy's government after undeniable feelings of corruption. It's not a game that can teach lessons. I can't. The fight against corruption and for the regeneration of institutions must become a principle rather than an effective thing. And you're the only one who talks about it. Because their facts, then, do all the opposite of what they say they do. How do they want to regenerate Spain with some gentlemen who think that Spain is their most? That the children are owned by their parents and that they can do with them what they want and want? And with leaders coming from the real estate sector, which you said yourself, he's one of the most corrupt he's caused – "the culture of the totxo, which they didn't say. But it's that, besides, as they run so few places, so it's obvious that many cases of corruption do not have, but it's that when they run, four joints that they had in the Community of Madrid, three cases of corruption: El Molar, Arroyomolinos and some more. But they have it, they're not free. Therefore, Ciutadans, who gives lessons, can give a few from here. Fitxen corrupt people from both PP and PSOE, such as Silvia Clemente and her topinades in the primary schools of Castella and Lleó. We think that Ciutadans, once more, should be a little more humble and know that first they have to rule and then be able to give lessons. The regeneration of institutions will come with the work of all, and cooperation between different. But first, one must be credible in order to give lessons, and Ciutadans cannot give lessons. That's not what I'm talking about, either. The question is, how can Ciutadans give lessons? All in all, I'm sure. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed is the now return of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.178.0	Well, in her intervention, Mrs. Lorena Roldán spoke of Artur Mas, Mr. Figueras, Laura Borràs, Miquel Buch, Jordi Pujol, Ricardo Calvo, well, concrete examples, you did, didn't you? Therefore, in the analysis of the main corrupt practices you have given examples only and exclusively of charges that are independent and that are actually related to some cases of corruption or, as a minimum, are being investigated for this. But if we look at the main corrupt practices, which are illegal financing, the traffic of influences, the misappropriation and appropriation of public cables, we will also see that there have been departures from all the colors involved. Illegal financing of parties. Just as we can think of the independenceists of the Gürtel and the envelopes of the People's Party, we can also talk about the case of Tourism, of the Democratic Union of Catalonia, of Fèlix Millet and of the Palau de la Música Foundation. If we're talking about misappropriation, we also want to talk about a very concrete case, and it's that the next day sees..., to the gods of the morning will celebrate the trial of Garraf Municipal Promotions to the Provincial Audience of Barcelona, a trial that has been possible thanks to the Companions of the Cup of Garraf, after more than seven years fighting against a system that is well guarded from protecting the established powers. It is an obvious case of party financing of the Socialist Party, and certainly one of the managers involved was ex-register of the people's PSC veí, which is Sitges. For another band, if we're talking about influence traffic, we're all talking about the PP's former ballet president, Jaume Matas, or the case of ITVs, for which Oriol Pujol was convicted, which you talked about. If there is any misappropriation of public cabals, we can also talk about the socialist Montserrat Capdevila as well as the Railway Expressidents of the Generalitat Antonio Herce and Enric Roig. And if we talk about the appropriation of public cabdals, we can also talk about Rafael Blanco, of the People's Party, that of Francisco García Prieto, an expression of the Federation of Andalusian Entities of Catalonia. And, therefore, these and many other cases invalidate the argument that it's a rotten apple in a cyst and that we're talking about winged cases. And, therefore, in any case we find ourselves in front of systemic cases. And, yes, you said to your intervention, exactly, that "in Catalonia, who has touched power has taken money into their pockets. The truth is, yes, a lot of the people who have touched power have taken money to their butxacs, to Catalonia and back from the Spanish State, because in the Spanish State corruption is the daughter of the institutional design agreed between Francoist elites and democratic forces, which, based on the capitalist logic of accumulation, have used power to fulfill their butxacs and their friendships. This scheme came to an end with Franco's death, when the culture of work and access to wealth began to permeate all political, social and economic activity, using the structures of a dictatorial regime that was already structurally corrupt. There was a contribution to economic neoliberalism, which you also defended from your formation, driven by Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s, who forged the idea that affluent for the money of a few is forgivable if he assumes a lever of material progress for many. This resulted in a model of development based on speculation and the commercialization of goods, as essential and basic as the soil, water or energy, pillars of the social state that, through their privatization or transfer of management to private hands, have served political elites and extractive finance to enrich themselves. The truth is that most cases of corruption have been donated in the scope of the negotiations, and in particular in the speculation of the soil and the construction sector, carried out on the horse of the financial candy and speculative orgy, the result of which has resulted in the progressive degradation of the living conditions and work of the social majority. There has also been, in irregular concessions of services and public works, money laundering and misappropriation of public funds for the benefit of third parties or, in many cases, including the pro-political group that wanted to favour them. He has already explained this before the PSC spokesman; Emilio Sánchez Ulled, prosecutor against corruption in Barcelona, explained it very well to CEMCORD. Continued cases of corruption, therefore, explain to us that cowardice, exploitation, and class indigemia have nothing to do with the social and national liberation process that we defend. In fact, where the People's Unit Candidates are present we have placed lights and stenographers on corrupt practices and we have raised captives. They know perfectly well that the UPC is a popular accusation in the case of 3_per_cent, and we consider it interesting to be a popular accusation to be able to analyze the development of the court, because it allows to analyze behaviors and systematize situations in cases of corruption. The companies at Camp Tarragona have brought the Innova case to court, which you spoke of, the CAP Muralles case, of Tarragona, and the Cambrils Cooperative case. The companies of the CUP of Girona have denounced the company GISA and the Consortium of the Costa Brava. The companies of the CUP of the West Valley have denounced Smatsa, the company of residues. They have also done so with the Teyco case, the Palau case, and they have brought both justices and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office the escandol of the Western Valley Residue Consortium. The companies of the CUP of Pirineu have denounced companies such as Endesa or Naturgy for irregularities to the hydroelectric concessions of Pirineu before the Anti-Fraud Office and the Greuges Syndicate. The companies of Barcelona, of the CUP of Barcelona, together with the CGT, the combat trade unionism, went hard before the courts the operation Estela. And, in fact, the case of Ricardo Calvo, who has commented you, we have unveiled together the CGT and the Candidature of Popular Unity, that we defend a process of social and national liberation that follows a social transformation of these hereditary structures of the Francoism and that they are structurally corrupt already of iniciaries, and of this neoliberalism and voracious capitalism, which is the essence, the structure that causes corruption. And, therefore, we encourage them, therefore, to denounce all and each of the cases of corruption, and also to make the three hundred measures approved in this Parliament an effective and material reality. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.179.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup, the People's Party of Catalonia has the word Mrs Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.180.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President, Members of Parliament, Councillors. We're already here. Two-hundred_seven hours after the suspension of this monogram ple on corruption, stop from the procedural emergencies that Mr. Torra had. I see that members are concerned about supporting the government on the issue of corruption. And this despite the fact that corruption, therefore, has already been totally anchored to the consciousness and perception of the citizenry, and when we appear, precisely, judicial envoys who affect deputies of this chamber, who affect former councillors of this chamber, who are now in Madrid, who affect former councillors who are now outside of politics, which affects the Secretary General of Esport, who also affects the Synod of Greuges. And look, you've decided, therefore, to talk about something else, that it's Mr. Torra's procedural emergencies, right? If 81 percent of Catalans believe that corruption in Catalonia is a very and quite difficult problem, I think the government has to do..., it has to take, right? , the challenge of trying to put measures in place to fix it. If 72_per_cent believes that corruption is enough or much, and 68.7 believes that it has increased or remained, the government must be in case, it must not try to find solutions. Among other things, because the loss of confidence always affects politics and institutions more than by direct perceptions of bribes, has already been said here in this Faristol, right? And the barometer successes, both of the CEO and of the Antifrau Office – who I take advantage of to greet its director and members – so I see it, and I see it from 2012, repeated in 2014, 2016 and 2018, I think we need to take the turn, and give the government a much more powerful boost than it has. Among other things, because the lack of political and democratic pulcrity sees, above all, after, the cases of Pallerols, Palau, in fi, Pujol, Innova etcetera, and must face up to with reptes and with normal reinforcement, with better control organs and with the internal compromise of the parties, and mirin, affections to whom it affects. And the run away from what was done with independence from what Mr. Villa said of "the stellate will cover up corruption, so it didn't work; first, because they have deceived a part of the small population, not big enough, and the more it's over, the more it's run out of time. And as we thought this debate wouldn't be packed with honest notebooks, I'll give you some examples. Affected by the corruption, we, of the government of Mariano Rajoy, took action, affected by whom affected, and hardened the Criminal Code, modified the Criminal Law, reinforced and created the High Court Law, the General Tax Law, created the Office for the Recovery of Acts, and you still did not apply to the Government the conclusions that were approved by the commission of the corruption of Mr Pujol, and neither did the conclusions that were approved by the CEMCORD, which was the fight against corruption and democratic regeneration, until, to the point that, to the end, the Periódico de Catalunya published the day that the conclusions of this plenary government came to mind that the Parliament wished to do something about the corruption and democratic regeneration, even though it did not do so. And what did the counselor and the counselor do here, that we have them present? We don't have the vice president. In the first place, disobey your vice president, because the vice president has made a call to rigor and respect and, truth be told, you have not done so. Among other things because, man, you have fabric that comes from the party that has fifteen embargoes that do not cover the responsibilities of the judgment of the Palau case, it is given in lessons, especially when, besides, the predecessor government, this one, is mostly in prison, among other things to commit crimes of misappropriation, and to serve according to what comparisons with Mr. Millo, as to say that it is pressurized to attack people, looks, Mr. Bosch, you are so helpless that we will not answer it: it is not worth serving these tools in politics, really, I say it to me. That said, the question we're here for. What did the government do? Don't you? What has the government done to fight corruption? Transparency law, yes, it was approved in 2014. Do we have any rules? No, we only have GAIP rules, which are insufficient. They have announced a strategy of fighting corruption with twenty-five measures, and they do so just after the case of the Institute of Catalan Letters, of CATmon, Voloh, three percent of the councillors, the Synod of Greuges; political determination, you say. I don't see it. Does the Generality compare corruption cases as the injured party or, at least, as the private prosecution? They are not... – to some they are very grateful, not to me, to me, cap –, do not appear there. You have, in fact, finished appointing a person in charge of the general intervention of the Generality who has had an open procedure before the Court of Auditors and has recognized that he has received allowances and salaries that do not come close to him from the Patronage of the Montserrat Mountain. It's just that they don't even set an example. I believe, with all that has been said here, with the measures, with the commissions of inquiry, with the commissions of study, with the standard march that we have in Spain, with the European directives that also help us, with the bodies of control that ask for help and more cooperation from the institutions, you, as well as the Government, have an opportunity, and it is – look, they do a little case to Mr Aragonès –: respect, rigour. And they make use of the proposals that the opposition will also make, because they are also concerned about this issue, that they do not put fans, that they do not carry in place, but take action, take advantage of the impulse, take advantage of even proposals of the opposition to clean up Catalan political life. It's an opportunity, it's been repeated many times in this hemisphere and I would encourage them to do so. And, of course, I don't know if this is about approving the generality's assumptions and being a member of the government, to the Lord of Can't have changed their common sense a little bit. I imagine they're penetrating, at these heights. Now, I don't know what you mean by the most corrupt party, the one they ruled Andalusia with and stole 618_million euros from the workers? Is that it? Is that what you said? Or do you refer to those who have their fifteen embargoes and who do not cover the responsibilities of the Palau case?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.181.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Bernat Sole's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.182.0	Good afternoon to everyone, president, councillor, councillor, members of the government, members of the Antifrau Office. It's funny that the People's Party is the one that's in a hurry to celebrate a plethora of corruption. Actually, politics is very curious. But it's that, besides, Mrs. Esperanza García, I recognize him a do; I recognize him as the do to be able to talk about everyone less than you, when who has more problems at home is you. [[Some applause.]] As you said, this Ple up at the end of a few days. And I don't know where you lived these days, but, as you know, Catalonia went through a process, it went through an important episode, and that was one of the reasons why this Ple went up the day before. Anyway, when days go by, things go by. And, therefore, there are situations that change, but there are other situations that do not change absolutely ever. I'll highlight two of them. Corruption. Corruption continues and corruption persists, and during these days we have followed the exhaustion of possible cases of corruption and illegal financing, and that is why we are here today; we are here to defend all those measures that allow us to fight corruption. And another thing that doesn't change: the lords of Ciutadans. You don't change at all. You convert this plethora of corruption into your political trimmer, into this TV set that you need on a continuous basis to make this campaign all and against all. In fact, I am surprised that you in all your intervention – and you have had thirty and fifteen minutes – did not refer to the most corrupt party in Europe and with whom you are ruling in Andalusia. I don't understand that, I don't understand that. [[Greetings.]] Nor is it surprising that you have used other times and here at the Faristol the « blow to democracy, because this concept is used whenever you have the occasion. Now, I won't let you: you continue to feel lied, use the lie; you have posed various cases of corruption, and the Vice President of the Government has told you that you might have to retract some words. Lords of Ciutadans, Mr. Ricard Calvo has an outstanding case. I looked at the papers before I talked. For what you do to the monogram, we... you've got it right, you're the main opposition party, even though you've given it up a long time ago, and so we won't put any impediments to it, because you say so in the Rules. But the Rules also ask to respect the majority, they ask to respect the agreements, and the Rules also ask to respect the reports that can be made by the people, because they question the reports that can be made by the people, you know how it goes, from this? Parliamentary corruption. You're constantly doing parliamentary corruption. You also spoke of Mr Oriol Junqueras and Mr Raül Romeva. Do you know what's going on? That you people who don't think the same as you call criminals. And that's not acceptable in this room either. And, so, do you know how you're going? Corruption of democracy. Anyway, we're talking about corruption, we're talking about fighting corruption. You always say that they were born..., that their party was born for a lot of reasons – we still don't know them – but one of the reasons was to fight corruption. But do you know what's going on? May you live in contradiction. And do you know what's going on? That when you plant a plethora of corruption on us, you do it to whitewash those pacts that you have, as is the case with Andalusia. He told us they've put the Anti-Fraud Office out of the way. So I propose the first measure that this Anti-Fraud Office has to take in the long term: to cease the most corrupt ruling party in the history of Europe. That's what this anti-fraud office needs to do. [[Greetings.]] Yeah, yeah. And this goes for the lords of the People's Party, the lords of the Gürtel, the ones of box B, the envelopes of Bárcenas, the ones of the Camps, Minister Mato's clothes, the ones of always, the ones of all life, those who come back, who always come back, so these, for Christmas and forever. Look, tell the Xnet platform – and from here, then, thank you also for the work you have done and that thanks to them it has also been possible to discuss the proposed law on alerters – that 70_percent of corruption cases are not unravelled from the same institutions, but do individuals individually, retaliated persons, private persons and people under pressure. Therefore, when you have the opportunity to defend this Law of Alerters, don't forget, step aside and defend another type of law that is good for you and good for your governing partners. You defend a law proposal that the protection of the complainant is reduced only to the functionaries and public workers, leaving the vast majority of whistleblowers exposed and unprotected; a law proposal that only remains in confidentiality, when what is anonymous, to avoid reprisals, intimidation and pressure from which he spoke before. But do you know what's going on? That you, Lords of City, are bound by hands and few; that you are bound by hands and few because you want to continue to rule with the most corrupt right. And when the rest of the groups agree to a debate on the Alerting Law, you notice; a law that actually protects alerters, that facilitates all guarantees of legal follow-up and follow-up, that also protects spouses and family members and that strengthens existing and new-found complaint channels; a complaint channel that does not come from non-citizens, but comes from the capacity of this country to be pioneers in the fight against corruption, creating, from time to time, the first Anti-Fraud Office in the State of Spain or pushing the different commissions of inquiry and study in this Parliament; a committee chair in Parliament that, without fear of being able to deal with the tax system, has been better able to explain the tax system, when he or she or he or she or he or she or he or she or he or she or he or she or she or he or she or she or she or he or she or she or he or she or she or she or he or she or she or he or she or she or she or she or she or he or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or he or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or he or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or he or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or she or any Because, when we talk about corruption, neither political nor moral nor social struggle can exempt anyone from taking refuge in fiscal obligations or justice. There's nothing at all I'm justifying. We want a free country model, we want a socially free country model, but above all clear and transparent. And, therefore, zero tolerance with those who have delinquent. Now I always do. And we won't get tired of remembering it day after day, because silence means oblivion, and oblivion means bleaching. And here's no bleach, here's the corrupt people sitting in court, who's next and who's to say what's to say. Gürtel case. Any 2009; corruption network linked to the Popular Party at the time of José María Aznar; gatherings and autonomous communities such as Madrid or València incardinates to obtain benefits from donations and bribes to work through box B. Case Noos – which I'll refer to later. Any 2006; Royal House, Iñaki Urdangarin, Diego Torres, Jaume Matas ; platform to seize public funds through false charges: Palma Arena, Olympic candidacy of Madrid, etcetera. If EREs, from Andalusia – there is not for everyone here, and you have also given it support. Any 2011; Junta d'Andalusia, governed by the PSOE ; Presidents José Griñán, Manuel Chaves, Minister Álvarez ; 12_million euros to non-existent retirements. Palau case. Any 2009; perfect triangle: Palau de la Música, Railroad and Democratic Convergence, with more than 6_million euros collected through irregular commissions. Pujol case. Any 2014; Pujol and Victoria Álvarez family; non-declared foreigners. Case 3_per_cent. Year 2005; in this same Parliament: "You have a problem, and this problem is said 3_per_cent. Someone's made a reference. Prettoria case. Any 2009; Bartomeu Muñoz, Macia Alavedra and Lluís Prenafeta ; mayor, councillor and government secretaries respectively. And to this list we could add many and many causes. And for all this, for these thirty years, some have called it a catal oasis, apparently a place to hide corruption and privileges, which have led us to the need to renew institutional policy and to reconnect between representatives and representatives, today we are here. We are here because we want to build a country from transparency and good practices. Probably, there's gonna be some elections... or there's been an announcement of some likely elections. You're gonna have to talk, you're gonna have to talk, you're gonna have to talk, you're gonna have to talk, you're gonna have to talk, you're gonna have to talk, it's gonna have to talk, it's For what it does to our parliamentary group, we will put down the red line so that, with everyone who is watching us, we will demand that it is free of any form of corruption. And that's our red line. And we, like the Republican Left, can not only speak for these eighty-nine years of history, but can speak for concrete facts; concrete facts from the government, from the institutions and from the same party. We did so at the time with Councillor Tresserras to the Government, pushing a follow-up of measures to increase control in foundations and entities receiving public subsidies; with Councillors Puigcercós, Ausàs and Vendrell, pushing the Anti-Fraud Office; we did so with Councillor Romeva, pushing an open and transparent government, and we did so today with Councillor Bosch, developing a strategy of fighting corruption and public integrity. And you, lords of Ciutadans, when you had the opportunity you didn't take advantage of it. They had the opportunity to give support to the law of transparency in this Parliament and they did not do so. They had the opportunity to support the creation of a committee of inquiry at the Congress of Deputies on the Royal House fraud and they did not do so. And so they don't come here explaining that you are the main fighters against corruption in this country, because the facts support you. And do you know what's going on? That they don't just endorse the lack of these facts, but other types of corruption. Why isn't it corruption for you when the xenophobic speeches of your governing partners in Andalusia are whitewashed? Why aren't you corrupt the money you give support to and expel people and families from their homes? Isn't it because of you corruption that everyone who's been getting rich for years at the expense of taxpayers doesn't have any responsibility for the Castor project? Why is it not corruption for you to confront a society through its language or judge and appoint teachers and teachers? It's corruption, too. Why is it not corruption for you that, while we see women murdered in the hands of men, you continue to rule with a party that you do not recognize today's male violence? – and I've done it in Andalusia. [[Greetings.]] Why is it not corruption for you when the forces of the State pass through the coexistence of a state of law and they spend 87_million euros, needed for what you preach every day in this faristol? Why is it not corruption for you when a democratically elected government is judged and they ask for a hundred years in prison? Isn't that corruption for you? It's clear. Do you know what's going on? That you just want to see what you want to see. You use plenums like today, which are totally legitimate and necessary, to confront and divide. And that's what's going on – and I said it before – "parliamentary corruption, because in this Parliament there is a debate on issues that really interest the citizens. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, parliamentary corruption, because there is nothing more petty than using corruption to whitewash the corrupt and criminalize the political rival. It's what Berlusconi did, it's what the PP did in the Gürtel case, and it's what Donald Trump does: criminalizing his political opponent. And do you know what's going on? – before he spoke of Mr Junqueras, etc., to whom you could not look at the eyes, and was unable to wait for his answer – do you know what is going on? That when one represents in this Faristol he represents, he has the tranquillity of being able to speak absolutely of everything. And do you know what the real peace is? Be part of a party with eighty-nine years of impolite history. [[Greetings.]] And that's not a speech, that's a story. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.183.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Lord Lluís Guinó. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Silence, deputies, deputies... whenever you want, Mr. Guinó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.184.0	President, Vice-President of the Government, Counsellor, Councillors, Members, Deputies, let me begin my intervention to define what will be the way I will work, and it will be fully constructed. I will try not to blow, not to cry, not to use corruption as a weapon against other parliamentary groups, and I will try, to the extent possible, to be very and very constructive. And I want to begin, more than aggravate the presence of the members of the Anti-Fraud Office, putting into value the Law of Transparency 19/2014, the need for the administrations to carry out a transparent retention of accounts and to deploy it even more fully, and taking into account that it was more of a law that kept the development of the settlement practically two years here in Parliament, with the intervention of all the parliamentary groups; that there was a very coherent and very convincing intervention of the assemblies and local administrations. And, for another band, also recognize those parties that voted for it, and also recognize that there have been political parties that today have the flag of the fight against corruption, but that law of transparency did not finish convincing them, and therefore, today I have not heard from Ciutadans, that they are the parliamentary group that have initiated the proposal of the debate, no proposal or alternative to that law of transparency in which they abstained. Therefore, it would ask them – modestly, obviously – to thank them that they have brought to term or have presented the proposal to make a debate on corruption, that they make proposals, that there is not only enough complaint, that to make politics it is also necessary to make proposals and to present alternatives so that they continue to be studied and debated in this Parliament. The Law of Transparency had two fundamental axes: one is active advertising, which is that the same administrations must carry out all the information that is legally established, and, for another, there was also passive advertising, which is that all citizens have the right to require certain information, always taking into account very limited limits of the Administration, both local administrations and the Administration of the Generality. The value or value of this law seems to me to be highly positive, but such a time deserves some explanation, which must also be taken into account by parliamentary groups. Because we were looking at that moment and we were definitely looking for the traceability of public money, of all public money, certainly. It is a fundamental objective that the administrations, the Government of the Generality, and from here the Parliament precisely also, with the demands at parliamentary level, give us traceability to the management of public money. We also propose a meritorious culture in the direct streams. There was a first proposal for a directive on public service in the previous legislature, this legislature has not cleared up again, but it is important that from a point of view of the public directives, which there should be, what is obvious is that they must have a culture based on merit and public integrity – that I will already make reference to it when I speak of public ethics and public morality, which seems to me to be a fundamental element in hearing what has happened and in precisely avoiding that it has been repeated again. The functioning also of the public agenda, taking into account a regulation of interest groups, which is also on the table the proposal to pull it forward. And for another band – there has already been a reference – the Alerter Act. GAIP worked well too. All those citizens who have doubts, who have concerns and who need to ask the administrations for information can do so through this commission. Therefore, work has been done, between all parliamentary groups and on the part of the Government, and more has been done on the part of the intervention of the two advisors in the sense that they will do more, as a consequence of the evolution and above all of the guidelines that mark the suprastate entities, and even the European Union. However, in the interventions that have taken place, I have certainly noticed a hint of confusion in the concept of corruption. I have tried above all at the bibliographic level to see who are the people who have studied the problem the most, and I would like to make a prominent reference to the professor of political science Manuel Villoria, who appeared precisely in the Law of Alerters and who has a very interesting and very short book and which I recommend, which is said How is fought against corruption. And he's referring, first of all, to the definition of corruption, which is obviously worth a concretion, because sometimes we define corruption and we define conduits that are or define as corruption that really aren't, and for another band he also makes a proposal for such a fight against corruption, that it's the most important. Because obviously corruption exists, it's a shacra; some authors also say, like Heywood and Rose, that corruption is clearly a moral malaise, and here I will insist, because it's one of the questions I would like to reiterate. But, above all, what we have to share in terms of definitions is that corruption necessarily implies a position of power on the part of someone in an organization; it generates an abuse of power, which may not only be legal, but can also be socially and morally allowed to fall into some societies, because corruption is not the same concept as it has been for the past 20 years. Let us note that a paradox has been created at the level of statistics: the years when there was more corruption in the Spanish State, curiously, in the questions that had occurred did not concern the citizens of the country so much. In change, precisely now, in that theoretically, as a consequence of the many measures that have been taken, there is less – theoretically – corruption than ever before, in change the perception continues to feel very high. Authors also separate and differentiate very much what is corruption as such and the perception of corruption, which is not quite the same. The perception is precisely what we need to avoid by means of prevention. And we propose different strategies, which have as their first brand what we call a global integrity mark, which goes first: there must be a clear political will to fight corruption; this is a basic policy and strategy: there must be a political will to fight corruption. I have already made reference to it before: it is necessary to access public administration with meritorious foundations, with objective foundations and, moreover, with impartial foundations. Above all – there has been a reference – there must be a control in the record keeping, a more comprehensive control in the contracting systems, and there has also been a reference on very many occasions by different parliamentary groups to the control of subsidies. And Parliament also has a function – because this former ugly respect for the execution –: we in Parliament need to create mechanisms of good codes of conduct, of dissemination, precisely, of good practices and of good governance. I have made reference before: audit and accounting control and financing. We have to have politically transparent and net political parties, and that all contributions can be reliably proven and that everyone has access to them. But we need political parties, obviously, financially consolidated. And a question that has not been referred; such a time has been referred indirectly, but I do want to comment on it. We also need an independent and impartial judiciary. Access to the judicial career also on the basis of objective criteria. That the General Council of the Judiciary is not conditioned by politics, because this is also a potential mechanism of corruption. Because we have to trust in justice, and we can, in the past, have doubts as to how justice works, certainly, and above all, high justice. We can't launch the Enemy Criminal Code to all those who disagree with certain political postulates. We have a right to justice, and we have a right to justice that is clearly just. And the last point, which is very important and which refers to the empowerment of the citizenry. It is not possible to fight corruption if there is no empowered citizenry, which has the feeling that it is loving to what happens, in a manner analogous to the means of communication, that they have to do a job of control, of complaint, but not of false complaint, and not of complaint to hurt from a political point of view and manipulate accurately – in some cases it has been made – certain elections, as happened in this country on some occasions. Communication media must also be objective and they must credit their information, and they must more credit their information. This is also very important and also marks this global integrity mark. The intern. It is likely that the Government can carry out ethics introductory courses in the Administration; that it defines codes of conduct; that it supervises, controls and guarantees this application of these codes of ethics. We cannot socialize the feeling of corruption; we cannot internalize or accept the feeling of corruption. It is certainly not possible to institutionalize, nor can it. It cannot be explained or rationalized; it has not been possible to hear and understand corruption from a public point of view. Because we certainly believe in ethical culture and believe in the concept that Victòria Camps explains in his ethics manuals: ethics and morals basically serve to keep the feeling that when we make a decision, we agree with public interest, and not based on private interests. It is perfectly possible that there is a certain amount of defamation in some areas; but it is perfectly possible also to defend public interest in a clear and objective way. We need to become aware and practice public morality; this is very important. Political responsibilities must be assumed, which sometimes do not exactly coincide with criminal responsibilities, because the presumption of innocence must be respected. Who does not respect the presumption of innocence ceases to respect the basic principles, especially in those cases..., and especially in the great defenders of the Spanish Constitution. It's a general principle. And this also has to be respected by everyone: the presumption of innocence; very important. A new public morale must be established by means of bodies, such as those responsible for overseeing and controlling institutions and the same political parties. Administrative discretion must be limited. This is already working, especially in the control and limitation of what are the contracting and subsidizing mechanisms on the part of the Government. There is an area of corruption that doesn't necessarily coincide with what is legal and criminal law. There are authors, scholars who define, as he did in Heidenheimer a few years ago, a type of corruption that is not necessarily the one that deserves the right and the application of the criminal law, there is what is certainly gray corruption, which is corruption that is consented to but is not complaint. And, therefore, all these questions need to be addressed and addressed to what is a civic culture. Because in the background it's also a cultural level and it's a level of education – the counselor also referred to it. We must apply criteria of culture and public morality that are exemplary, and this can be done perfectly with policies from the government. The alerters need to be protected, not so much because their task is still substantive and basic to the complaint of corruption, but because they cannot accept any type of pressure from these people who objectively and seriously raise some doubt respecting certain policies. And I do not refer strictly to the public sector; it must also refer to the private sector in the public sector, and that is very important. There is, of course, a private sector that has generated, to some extent and in certain cases – and some have been defined – that has resulted in the fumigation of responsibilities in all private sector enterprises which, in some ways, are responsible for the public management of some services. This is a very serious matter. These public services must be especially loving and controlled by the Administration. It is not the concept of "externalization, "privatization, the most important from a conceptual point of view; the important thing is that you are served publicly, certainly, and that the Administration has its control. And when dysfunctions or abnormal functions occur, the same Administration knows how to solve these problems. Well, I wanted to insist on the ethical question, the moral question. I am confident that the improvement of one's character is the basis of all moral progress. There is a question that affects very directly each of us, it is a collective question; ethics affects each of us from a personal point of view. Therefore, more civic virtue, more respect, more participation, more responsibility and, even more so, from a political point of view, explain or define what public ethics is, precisely under the concepts that define Manuel Villoria and Agustín Izquierdo very well in a monograph that, I insist and repeat, I recommend. Viktor Frankl said that every man, even under tragic conditions, watches the inner freedom to decide who he wants to be and continue to preserve his dignity. Ethics and morals also form part of this dignity. Just tell them we need to keep working to end corruption. It's a rock that can't be solved permanently and absolutely, because it's very complicated the zero risk in which corruption is. But we do have an obligation, first of all, to be, from an ethical, clear and transparent point of view, and, for another, to denounce the cases that come to us and that we know so that they take their actions and their consequences. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-05-4802.185.0	Thank you, Congressman. There will be no reply from the government, so let's finish the debate here. Let them know that, in order to present the motions for resolutions, there is time until tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. The qualification and admission to the process will be fifteen minutes later, and the deadline for submitting the transactional proposals is tomorrow at six o'clock. Finally, to warn once again that the vote on the motions for resolutions will lead to the sale of the nine in the morning. They suspect the session till tomorrow.
