ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. [[Asking the Government about the assumptions for 2020]] [[300-00243/12]] Let us resume the sitting with the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the assumptions for 2020; an inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to explain it to the Member of Parliament, Ms. Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.2.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, deputies and deputies. Well, you must know that the 27th of February, a few days ago, the Congress of Deputies was debating the adequacy by 2020 of the fiscal and public deficit targets of the joint public administration. Until now, until the time of that debate, the existing path of stabilization was the one approved by the government of Mariano Rajoy in 2017, with Minister Montero in the lead. Moreover, a path of stabilization that was very criticized since it was approved, at the time, both for international organizations and for national organizations, the Airef or the Bank of Spain, right? And it was in July 2018, with the motion of censure and the arrival of Pedro Sánchez to the Government, that the approval of the adaptation of this path of stabilization was put on the table, but it was not possible to approve, because neither Ciutadans nor PP allowed it to approve this new path, which had to allow more resources for public administrations, in concrete also for the autonomous communities. And, therefore, we followed with that mark. Even so, it has to be resilient when it believes in a cause, and the government came in a few months ago, so it returned to the Congress of Deputies this vote, this debate to adapt the objectives of stabilization to a new economic, social, and political reality, which there was and is in the same Congress of Deputies. It may be recalled that this proposal for these deficit targets was endorsed by the Tax and Finance Policy Council. The vice president always says that he's running the ministry and that that's why, so, in many cases, he doesn't attend. We would be pleased that, despite the fact that he has more weight in that council..., therefore, the Catalans have a representation and have the highest and most important representation of this government, which is Vice President Aragones. We would like it to be that years ago, that you can give your opinion, that you can contrast with other advisors, economic advisors, therefore, what is being discussed there. But, well, we didn't have this luck: in the past Tax and Finance Policy Council it wasn't there. Despite all this, this flexibility of the deficit targets was endorsed, among other things, much demanded by this Government of the Generality. We've listened many times to the vice president and other members of the government ask for flexibility, because that meant more resources for Catalonia, and so even we've always told them that we would help them with this, right? , and in this performance. Well, it was endorsed by the Tax and Finance Policy Council, also by the National Commission for Local Administration, and so, therefore, it was brought to Congress with these prior approvals. Flexibility is expected to increase from 0_per_cent that marked Rajoy's government to 0.2. That, man, we may think it's a little bit of what it is, but it's true that it's a substantial better, a better one that we've asked for many times. We think it's okay that we recognize things too sometimes. This 0.2_percent of GDP for autonomous communities, this increase means some 470_million euros for Catalonia. Obviously, it's limited by the expense rule, and if we use it, if we make this calculation, we'll stay at 270_million euros. That's the final xifra. Now, these days we listened and yesterday, so we had the opportunity to listen to Vice President Aragonès, to a question that was asked by Deputy Cid, and they were talking about 72_million euros. We would like to know, Vice-President, if these figures were to come out. Because when we analyze and use the calculation of this spending rule, we get 270. One might think that it is that you have already spent part of these resources in 2019 – don't get angry – that it is that they have already been spent, there is a certain deviation from what you have predicted, that I don't have it, because if I go to the execution that is on Parliament's website – which you know I know I am very applied – it turns out that we follow the November 2019 data, and therefore the data that I have are these. If you have some more, then you can probably explain them to us. Because, if not, I don't understand 270 to 72; if it's not because there's a deviation in the 2019 forecast, which you want to retain in order not to spend more and generate more deficit, we don't understand. And in any case, I want to ask you, Vice President, that if you've already spent 2019, because there's a deviation... if there's a deviation, it's because you've spent more, and so we'd like to know what it's spent on, because it clearly conditions that today we can be debating these 270s and not the 72s, or the 72s and not the 270s that we give and that the Ministry also informs us of. I want you to explain it to us, huh? , that you explain it to us clearly, that sometimes it costs us a little to clarify. Listen to me, 470_million euros is what the flexibility of the deficit target means for Catalonia. I'd also like to tell my benevolguts of the commons who say 470, which is the 0 to 0.2 amount. Then, the expense rule, with which we would all agree, because you also want to complete it, year after year, with this presuppositionary law that was approved in 2012, which is that we obviously have to condition ourselves and there are 270. What I want to know and want to know from my parliamentary group is why you said 72 and gave 72: if it's these 200, we spent 2019, there's a deviation, we spent it..., because that's conditioning us not being able to today decide on these 270. In any case, I think it would be good sometimes if we recognized things with a certain honesty. That is to say, you have asked many times for this flexibility and a government of the PSOE and we can, therefore, have granted to do so to improve the conditions of the autonomous communities, and so long as it would not be ill that we could recognize it. Because yesterday, listening to you, Vice President, you were talking only about 72 and, well, and then, obviously, you were doing other reviews, weren't you? Anyway, that's also true that we're used to it. I should also like to say to you that it represents, obviously, the Republican Left Group, which abstained in that vote at the Congress, and we thank them... We believe that, obviously, we all have right to the complaint, only would be missing; but when one has the opportunity to settle to improve the situation, so it is good to use this vote and this situation. And he did Republican Left abstaining. He didn't do it together for Catalonia, did he? After we always listen to Mr. Munell – who, I mean, like I see him here... – to the Economic Commissions, which basically does, more than defending the assumption that you have presented to us, is criticizing the Government of the State for the debt, the fiscal deficit, and all that. That is fine, but then, when we have the opportunity, Mr Munell, to improve these conditions for Catalonia, it would not be bad for you, with the least, to abstain. And so from this 0 to 0.2, which means 470_million, so you could have incorporated it. So there were other groups that abstained or voted in favour, because, if not, for you, then we would still be in a worse situation. Why in the background so lets us keep complaining, huh? That's something that happens a lot, that happens a lot to Catalans: we like to complain and, when they give us the opportunity to improve things, we don't. And I say it for 2019. In 2019, the Government of the State presented some assumptions; in these assumptions there had incorporated this VAT of which you are complaining, which is not now and which have not returned to us, but VAT was included; there was the debt of Mossos; there was the third additional provision, more than 2,000_million euros for investments, and Republican Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia presented them to the total. I repeat: you complain a lot, but when you have the opportunity to improve the situation for the sake of the citizens of Catalonia you abstain. I mean, no... you know? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, man..., the first to present the message to the totality were you, the Parliamentary Group to Congress, Republican Left ; and then Together for Catalonia, it wasn't, eh? That there are many days of difference. Both of them. Then they could have pulled her out. They didn't. Therefore, some assumptions that were better for Catalonia, that they did incorporate the VAT money, the additional third, debt for Mossos, more investments..., you presented it to the totality. Now you can get out here, and you will... and, listen, you're on your right, you know – plus, I like to listen to you very much, Vice President – but, clearly, complain about that, when 2019 was a proposal about the table that you rejected... I would also like that in a clear and honest way explained here why you rejected it – why the ban rejected it. Because she was good for Catalonia and now we'd have solved some problems, we'd have solved some problems. So I think it would be nice if you explained that to us today. I can't explain it to us together for Catalonia, because more, in any case, you will give the opinion of the Government, but I do think it was a lost opportunity: today we would have some presuppositions of 2019 approved that we had more resources and would be..., we hope that we don't make the same mistakes in 2020 and we can approve them. So, Vice President, I think I've asked very clearly. We would like to know your answer so that we can finish the debate with you in this inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, ladies and gentlemen, well, in the first place I want to see two things. This is not the Congress of Deputies, it is the Parliament of Catalonia; therefore, the positions held by the parliamentary groups at the Congress of Deputies, we will have, we have the opportunity..., because it seems to me that the PSC, while not having a parliamentary group of its own, has deputies at the Congress of Deputies, and therefore there will already have the opportunity to discuss with the deputies of the Republican Left or of Junts for Catalonia, of the CUP..., with whom you consider it necessary to discuss. Therefore, we are not in the Carrera de San Jerónimo, we are in the Parc de la Ciutadella. And we will not subordinate the activity of this Parliament to that of the Congress of Deputies. According to the observation: we are not in the year 2019, we are in the year 2020; we have assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for the year 2020. A week ago, when we were discussing the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2020, you were just talking about 2019; now, when you bring here the general assumptions of the State of 2020, again talking about 2019. It's been a year. Therefore, as we are at 2020 and not at 2019, we will talk about 2020. Certainly, yesterday the Senate approved new objectives of presuppositional stabilization. Previously the Congress had done it. He did, therefore, with the vote in favour of some parties and the abstention of others. Where are we at the moment and what's the change? Up to now, the targets for stabilization have meant that the whole of the Spanish state could make 0.5_percent of the deficit GDP of public administrations, which was reserved for the entire central state administration; zero for the autonomous communities, zero for the conjunctions. There are some new presuppositional targets that make autonomous communities, and therefore the Government of Catalonia – which at the moment are an autonomous community, even though we want to be much more – go from 0 to 0,2 and the Central Administration of the State goes from 0.5 to 1,6. Therefore, here we see that in the department, which unilaterally decides the Ministry of Hisenda..., says: "To the Tax and Finance Policy Council, man, the Ministry of Hisenda has more than you would like. No! No! He's got it all, because he's got the absolute majority for the Rules. That is to say, if at all..., imagine the case that the Minister of Hisenda of his party does not govern the autonomous community of the Spanish State – to say the least – and that all votes against his position: only by raising the saying does he approve of what he wants in the Tax and Finance Policy Council. It is a unilaterality of the Ministry of History enshrined in the Rules of the Tax and Finance Policy Council. So, is 0.2 better than nothing? You're better. You're better, of course. That is why some political forces have abstained. You're better. Is that enough? It's not enough, it's not at all. I see that the Ministry of Hisenda informs you before the Government of the Generality, and I celebrate it, about the calculations that they make, because it has said here: "The Ministry tells us that... So I celebrate it, let's say it; already..., let's hope that it informs us too. In any case, what we are complaining about is that it is not meant to make the deficit more flexible and then to maintain a rule of spending, of the toughest in Europe, which makes it difficult to take advantage of all this margin. Because that's cheating. Why, when they're cheating, who has the margin? Who's the one who can skip the expense rule any year, and as it is the senior management there's no one but the guards? The Central Administration of the State, that every year has missed the objectives of presuppositional stabilization. And, as they present before the European Commission the results of the joint, the surplus of the joints is offsetting the excess deficit of the Spanish Government. So, when the joints have a spending rule and they're ending..., they're forced to make it over, so they don't let them spend more than a given as much as a percent increase, that surplus serves to compensate for the excess deficit of the State Administration. As what is presented before the European Commission is not the result of the assemblies, of the autonomous communities or of the central administration, but of the aggregate, of the global, they present the global and say: « – We have fulfilled. – Yes, yes; but you don't. That is to say, Spain has completed the objectives of presuppositional stabilization on the costs of joints, first, and then, of autonomous communities. Therefore, it is an absolutely perverse dynamic. You say that you have made a calculation – it seems very good to me – of the rule of expense, you say: "How do you calculate it? So, miri, I'll explain how we calculate it. The rule of spending – we remember, because the people who are listening to us, and the deputies and deputies also, we all refresh the memory – say that you can only create a certain amount of expenditure that respects the previous year, with equal legal structure of entries. That's to say, if you don't change taxes on the raise, with the same taxes you can only grow a little bit. The idea behind it is: if you have a bit of punctual economic activity, which generates you, therefore, an extraordinary entrance, man, you don't generate current expenditure, that maybe when you don't have this economic activity you'll have to keep paying. Therefore, try to maintain a certain degree of stability. This is the idea of the expense rule. So that's what the People's Party decided to apply, let's just say, with good health, that's to say, take advantage to refocus, huh? , and to glue the joints and the autonomous communities. So, where do we go? To take the expense of the previous year. Planned expenditure for the year 2019 – planned and, therefore, what we have planned – EUR 27,391_million. I repeat again, because I can't do two things at a time, let's say it, in the face of my condition, but..., I suppose the honourable Member does, but in her case I repeat it: planned expenditure for the year 2019, 27.391_million euros. Expected; not assumed: expected. What's to stay here to calculate the expense rule? Interest – 820 –, expenditure derived from finalist entries– 1,254 –, transfers to local authorities– 154. Total, EUR 25,162 million base, to which we must apply this maximum growth rate of EUR 2,9_percent that allows us, which makes a total of EUR 25,892_million. Here we have to add the interests– 787–, the forecast of finalist entries– 1,106 –, the local transfers– 154–, the standard changes that we will make with the law of measures, which allow us to push, therefore, this expense– 225 –: 28,164. And, therefore, this is the margin, these 28,164 is the maximum we can do. From here on, when we apply the deficit targets, then, we remain, we have 72 million euros of margin. You say there's more. So, come on, it must be that the Socialist Party has more information than the entire Department of Economics, the General Intervention of the Generality, the General Directorate of Presumptives... Maybe yes, let's just say... In any case, this is the margin. If the rule of spending is flexible, we must take advantage of the rest, obviously, and we are the first to defend it. But to take advantage of the rest you have missed an essential step, which is that you will have to approve a premise of the Generality. And what are we going to find here? That the Socialist Party will not want to approve this assumption of the Generality. And he won't want to do it for political electoralism. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Why, if it is not for political electoralism, how does it explain that they present a statement to the totality of the law of measures that incorporates all the fiscal measures that you have been claiming in this Parliament for the last five years? That incorporates the better of the inheritance and donation tax, the IRPF, environmental taxation measures; we also adjust, for example, the tax on sugary beguds or the tax on tourist establishments. All these measures – all of them – you have asked for them in this Faristol. We put it in a law, we bring it here... you could be against the presupposition, how we distribute the expense. They could be against it, saying, "Look, we don't agree, and that's why we're talking about totality. But what about the entrance measures? If they've been asking! But no, they vote against it. They vote against it and present a statement to the totality, on the side of the People's Party and Ciutadans, that they do a charge against taxation, which could produce a very large doubt on which is the ideological location of the PSC in the matter of taxation on the right-left-hand side. But I don't think it's going this way, I think it's working because you're very clear that you don't want to give independence victories and you don't want to give victory to this government. But they're wrong. Because the need to approve these assumptions and the victory to approve these assumptions will not be the victory of this government. Neither for the pact that has been made, nor for the contents. It will be a victory for the country. And you don't have to leave the country – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We'll give it all to him. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.5.0	To make the answer is the Member's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.6.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, I– and it seems to me that you know – try to be strict, huh? I'm trying to call and use those tools I have to get out here and try to be honest and tell the truth. Well, that's one. You tell me I'm not talking about 2019. Home, let the independenceists tell me, let's not look back, let's spend the day celebrating things that went on three and four years ago... Home, listen'm, I just wouldn't be able to talk to you about 2019! Because what happened in 2019, which is that you will present a statement to the general assumptions of the State, has an impact on what we have today, which is less resources for Catalonia: in investments, in debt for the Mossos, in VAT, etc. And, as you only complain that now the State does not put the VAT money, I say to him: "Look, 2019 was there, and you voted against it. Then we complain – and we always complain – or, if not, listen to me, when they can put the solutions, vote them. It's that you just want to complain; that's what I gave to Mr. Munell. I can hear it from Junts for Catalonia, but from you... Well, look, listen, it's the same. I do see that in this 2020 you continue to do something that we do not like and cannot share, that is that you unilaterally renounce to defend Catalans; for example, the Tax and Finance Policy Council or in the debate on the new system of autonomous financing, which we so much need. Well, then, listen to me, this could be done. Listen, the Presuppositional Enabling Law..., we may agree with some of the reflections you make, but as you say it obviously doesn't approach here, because here we don't have competitions, it has the State, so your parliamentary group..., or you can tell your parliamentary group that I proposed modifications there. Look, you said now that the State is always more reserved. Well, the state passed in a few years of '1.32_percent of the deficit to 0.5, because you said 1.1..., you said 1.6. Yeah, but there's a 1.1 that's social security. It's also worth saying, because social security also has to be seen here with the Catalans. And social security is also reducing the deficit, and then, yeah, it's 1.1, social security, and 0.5, the state. I also think it's worth saying. And, in change, reducing to autonomous communities is just a 1_per_cent. Miri, the generality's assumptions. Listen to me, we... or you, sooner or later, didn't come back with the PSC. I suppose it's because it makes them a certain because if they're with us, they'll tell the other independents that, of course, they're with the 155th, and they're little bits and flutes, and I don't know what. That's what it is, Vice President, because we made a first meeting at the beginning of September and never again knew, never again have we been called. Then, we, who are serious people, and you know, what are we doing now? What have we done? Because they've already presented the reviews these past few days. So work the papers and try to improve a premise that seems dissatisfactory to us from the social point of view. And for what it also does to economic development. We do not believe that it is a premise that generates new jobs, that generates wealth; there are no resources for industry, there is not enough resources for the automotive sector. Obviously, it is absolutely unsatisfactory for what it does to education, to school segregation, to the poor child. That's to say, there are so many things that we don't appreciate that our whole question was totally argued. And I think we've made it very clear here. From then on, we've done some tests, and we've introduced them, and we'll see. Now, so, obviously, it's time to work the papers and see, so, what we can pick up. I also have to say: Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia have presented many papers, huh? What's wrong with them, their presupposition? Because they have submitted quite a few assumptions and quite a few measures. And then something quite curious: they have submitted separate papers as well. I mean, I guess some of them didn't agree, huh? And, well, some of them will be looking for support. Men, too, don't give them enough pleasure in their presupposition. It's all right. And there's one thing that... I don't want to say to him that I don't tolerate, because it's a lot of read and you know that I have a good relationship and I try to be friendly all the time; but with the law of measurements, huh? You... I think it's good that we use the bill of measures to modify it in a timely fashion, and there are changes that we share, and we have said that in this faristol, and we can probably then vote in favour of it. What does not seem right to the law of measures is to create taxes without the relevant debate, is to modify laws almost in their totality... We believe that the law of measures is being used for things that are not, to avoid the debate. And that's not right, it doesn't look right. Now, some punctual changes that we've always asked for, so we've applauded them before, today, and we'll do it tomorrow. Now, it seems to us that all of his proposal, both assumptions and measures, is not in its right globality. And I don't say it: also did Congressman Cid say it or our benevolent fellows of the commons, they told him that it's not the assumption that they like, that they've given some things that they follow in better ways, but that it's not a assumption that... In fact, they won't vote for it, they'll abstain. At least that's what they've been doing to the commissions and here in the debate to the totality. So, listen, if whoever negotiated with you the assumption will go away, you can't ask me, with whom you didn't negotiate, to vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, to make his answer, it's the vice president's turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.8.0	Thank you very much, President. We could get into a debate here on parliamentary toilets, processing, but I don't think it's what the citizenry expects of us. What our fellow citizens expect from us is that we have solutions and that, before every decision we have to make, we value whether it's to move forward or not to move forward. And the assumptions we've put forward serve to advance. Even for what you consider to be absolutely insufficient, I'm sure these assumptions of 2020, sure – sure – are much better than a new extension to the assumptions of 2017. That's it. I know, there are political forces that they would like to be in the place of the government. But that's not what I or the members of the government decide; that's what the voting people decide. Therefore, after the elections, if the citizens give them enough confidence that they are in the government, then they will be in the government. He hasn't been like this for now, and I don't know if he will be. In any case, therefore, I believe that the discussions we have here must be used to give a clear message to the citizenry and to make appropriate decisions. As I say, respect the generality's assumptions, you say they don't like it, they don't like it, they don't like it, you prefer to stay with the 2017 ones. Because then they would go to those assumptions that they didn't like and that they voted against. Some things he said..., I think we all have to look at what we do in other places where we have responsibilities, because we don't think that we create taxes on the law of measures, but those assumptions of the State of 2019, which for you are extraordinary, created taxes. So, when the State creates taxes with the Law of State Presuppositions, such as the Google rate that was created and the modifications of the IRPF that made the State with those assumptions that, according to you, were The Golden Presuppositions and that I don't know why we didn't accept, it's good. When we do the government of Catalonia through the law of measures, it's painful. Is the problem the thing or the problem the one that makes them? It's the problem that makes them. And, for you, the problem of the assumption of the Government of Catalonia is not the content, the problem is who does it. And you don't want to give political air... because more so they said, there are statements from their party that they say, that is: "Until the government of Catalonia gave up the independence of Catalonia, we won't negotiate the premise. And there are his statements. And that's what we proved at that meeting and we said: "Home, then, look, we won't give up the assumption. If this is the back of the premise, giving up our convictions and our project, then no. And we'll look for another way to approve them. Then, about the deficit debate, let's not forget that the deficit debate is a debate about whether or not we can borrow a little more. Therefore, it is an absolutely conjunctural debate. What we should be discussing here in this Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies, in the European Parliament, is how we maintain the sustainability of the welfare state with economic changes that are occurring in the world, that are transforming the production system, that is transforming the consumption dynamics of the citizenry and that are at risk..., this economic globalisation puts the welfare state at risk if the fiscal structure of this state, of the welfare state, is not adapted to the change that is occurring in the world economy. That is why we should be talking here, for example, about who the proposals respect the European presupposition, which is being debated and which is being discussed by the Spanish Government without asking us anything. And when he defends the interests, for example, in the CAP pillar, of the common agricultural policy, he does not do so by thinking about the reality of the Catalan camp, which also emerges in the street, which is also a complaint of the low prices, but in some other realities; that we all know where much of the CAP aid went to the State, that it is the large landowners, and not the producer, not the genuine farmer, as they say the same agricultural organizations. What we should be discussing here is that, in a context where we come to discuss what differences there are between provinces in a tax of inheritance or income, to which we should go is to attack the great fortunes at international level. That the discussion is not between Barcelona or Madrid, but that the discussion is between Barcelona or Lisbon, or Luxemburg, or London. And, therefore, to create a European tax on capital gains, to make a shared European IRPF tram to attack the great fortunes, to harmonise at European level the tax of companies. This is what would make it possible to talk about tax entries for the joint administration, and not to discuss the deficit, which is very important, but which means more debt, more dependence on the financial markets. So, let's focus on the debates, which I think is what's important for the citizenry. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And, anyway, between the one that's, that's not good, and the one that can be a little better, every one that can be a little better, and that's the assumptions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.9.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.10.0	...of the Generality of 2020. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.11.0	... Vice-President. [[Question to the Government on the approach of the health system to sexual rape against children]] [[300-00244/12]] The next question is about the approach of the health system to sexual rape against infants, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.12.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counselor, parental alienation syndrome is a pseudoscientific theory, to say the least, because in reality the term would be a junk science, or so, "scatter science; it is a rejected theory for the international scientific community, not recognized by any body or institution and that Spain has made clear that it cannot be used. It is also known as the ‘bad mother's syndrome, the sea that supposedly uses or manipulates creatures to attack or reject the father. While being junk science, it has been used in our system for many years, in our catal system of protection for infants, and it is still being done, now camouflaged from "morbid concern or parental interference," other terms that are actually part of the same non-scientific basis of interpreting that the sea is using children. It is not an opinion of this Member; there are many concrete cases that I could mention in which, obviously, I would not put names, but they are very real cases. I could explain many, but today I want to explain only one, which probably today they have seen in the press. The girl – three years – reported sexual abuse by her father, three years old. I'm getting rid of the details of what he said, but obviously they weren't possible details to invent on the part of a three-year-old girl. They evaluated it in a specialized unit within the health system with Catalan public funding. Two interviews in 20 minutes. The girl verbalizes in these interviews the abuses. The report of this specialized unit does not only not give credibility to the word of this child but only accuses the mother of "morbid concern". Why? Because, before the disbelief of those professionals of that unit, the mother insists that the abuse has happened and that the words of her daughter are created. The report causes, to begin with, that the criminal complaint for abuse is filed, because justice is created that report, even though it is not expert, and says that there is no evidence. But, moreover, as a result of that report, all the rest of the system ends up making the mother have to carry the children, that child and her younger brother, to visits with her father. The mother complements, but in many cases the child does not want to see her father, on these visits. And every time they don't go, or because the child is sick or because she suffers an anxiety attack before going to the visit with her father, the system uses that not to appear as a reinforcement argument that this mother is obsessed and manipulates the child. No one is told in the system that it may be that the child was actually abused and does not want to see her abuser; no, because that report of that specialized unit of salvation denied that there was any abuse. The girl, meanwhile, asks the judge who carries the theme she is listening to; the judge denies it. The mother provides reports of other psychologists who have assessed the child and who diagnose that she is suffering from extreme post-traumatic stress. The judge doesn't admit them, either. The sea ends up refusing that magistrate; neither does this refusal. And that same judgment, in a court without the mother and without the lawyer, ends up dictating a change in the country's power and gives the power of the two children to the father, presumed abusive. Yesterday, these minors passed the custody of their father. The child, moreover, does not pass directly into the custody of the father but will spend time in a centre of minors because, among comets, the "disprogramme of this will not be with his father. So yesterday, two of the youngest children in the world who have been raised, a girl who is now seven years old, a child who is only four years old, took them with a father with whom they have not lived for many of these few years of their lives. And before cases like these, he'll advise, beyond what he thinks or doesn't think he's been through this time, I'll ask him three questions. Do you think he's pleased with the obligation to protect from all the rights and interests of children, that our Children's Protection Law says to him and the State of Catalonia? Do you think that, without listening to them, these children's rights have been protected? Do you consider it appropriate that a report from a unit specializing in sexual abuse of infants that you make following considerations about the sea, without psychologically evaluating it, to the sea, that does not approach them, but without evaluating it make considerations about the sea? And could you put your hand to the fire for the methodology and criteria that were used to make that report that denied there was sexual abuse of that child? Well, a case like this could repeat it a lot more. And it's always the same, with small variations, whether or not they come to the extreme that they are given parental authority to the mother, but yes, in many cases, they have forced those infants for years to be in custody or to see that father, who those infants ensure that they were abused or abused. That, Counselor, is institutional masculinism. Yesterday, in this Parliament, we approved bringing forward a bill from our parliamentary group that precisely wants to eradicate the institutional masculinism of our government, our institutions. But, besides, as I said, it's an attack on the right of childhood. So far I've been speaking generic, but this isn't anonymity. Who has been making these reports is the UFAM, the Functional Abuse Unit to Minors of Sant Joan de Deu, and for decades. Former MEP Gemma Lienas denounced him for 2017 in this same chamber. Counselor Comín recognized the problem; he ensured that CatSalut had been asked to control that this did not continue to happen and to review what had happened. It was changed to UFAM, basically it was removed the director – certainly, who continues to train specialists in this topic. But the team that's still working, that I know, is the same. Can you assure me, Counselor, that the problem has ended? Can you assure me, counsel, that UFAM is no longer reporting on this logic? But it is that, in addition, the effect of those hundreds of reports that UFAM made during decades applying SAP or its derivatives remain in force. This case I explained to him yesterday that the children were taken to the mother was years ago; the judicial effect has been now. For two times in this room we have approved that these reports from UFAM should be reviewed. Got it, Counselor? Did he agree with what was approved in a young man who said that an external diagnostic review committee should be set up, at least in those cases where the seas or legal guardians are still in this review? I'm telling you, it didn't happen. We need to repair this damage and avoid it any more, because there are still cases in court cases with initial, initial, UFAM reports that have caused this whole nerve ball. And I'll tell him more: you know how many seas may not have reported the case of a suspected sexual abuse to their children because, either from basic social services, or from pediatricians, they told them "better you don't go to UFAM because you have these risks? I'm sure you don't know that either of us, but I'm aware that there have been cases of this type. They don't know how many. Therefore, the feeling is that we are maintaining a system that does not serve, a system that does not diagnose abuses in cases where there are evidences, a system that therefore does not protect the infant as a boiler, that blames the mother with institutional masculinity and that generates mistrust, and that with initial reports of that type, exits from the units of salvation, ends up generating a nerve ball throughout the rest of the system, a system in which the creature is not believed and in which the mother is guilty. And we don't want it to go on for another day. We have a new model planted for Catalonia, an initiated path, a pilot project of children's homes, that can implant it quickly, urgently and quickly and at the right pace. If they're really from the government, as the last few months have been said, this must be the only diagnostic system of a case of possible sexual abuse of infants. Therefore, the units of the health system must take a step back, he will advise. How did you feel that you are now deploying throughout the EFEs, functional teams of health experts, which, as you yourself define, must be diagnostic? After that, they will have to be integrated into the children's homes. How do you feel that they're doing this and not that they're betting with all the courage and pressure to quickly extend the homes of the country's armed infants? And I finish, Counselor, with three questions. Do you have the courage to recognize that the system didn't work well, as did Mr. Comín? Can you explain to me what guarantees it's no longer working, and which ones have been activated to repair the damage caused for everything that's been done? And can you explain to us what the government model is for the future to avoid repeating these mistakes? Is it the model of children's homes or is it a model for each department? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to, he'll advise. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Deputy Marta Ribas, well, as she explained very well, it's a very complex and very delicate place. And it's true that stories come from all over the world that today are seen as injustice. And, therefore, there was a moment—there was a moment—in which, when there are complaints, when there are complaints on the part of the attention..., of the Citizen's Service Management of the Cat Salut, we act. We act because it's the obligation, we always act on all levels to try to improve the service, to try to be on new treatments, to try to be on new currents, but in cases where things happen, we act. There have been different meetings on various occasions with professionals of this unit, Medical Direction, Management of Ciutadana Care Cat Salut, Regió Sanitària de Barcelona, Pla director of mental health and public health, during 2018-2019, and what is established is a change in the orientation and methodology of the task. Our pocket, like the health care system, is not expert. This is not our will or our reason to be and, as you have said, this has been used in expert cases. Therefore, less expert, more sanitary; more thinking of these infants, of these adolescents, more thinking of their recovery. And I'm not just saying treatment, I'm saying recovery, because the treatments have a clear objective, which is the recovery of these infants. For this reason, apart from this change in orientation and methodology, it also incorporates staff managed to follow up, so that they can give more to other people as well, such as in the field of social work, so that they can develop their pocket. The team is renewed, yes – yes – because the team has to be renewed, it has to be adapted to the needs and above all it has to be oriented to the new methodology. It is systematized, standardized the actions and the elaboration of reports, with a much more healthful value of the infant, in the line of which it gave before, less expert, avoiding..., and, when saying avoidable, I mean that it cannot be used – it cannot be used – terms that, as you have explained, have no scientific evidence and do not correspond to health areas, such as parental alienation syndrome or morbid concern. They can't be used. And I think this is where we're supposed to be tortious. Therefore, there has been a change in attention, with a focus also on the care of infants, families, contractors, and other services directed at the care and support of the family, ensuring recovery and also this community integration; it expands time; it is a joint meeting with the placards that bring together affected families to report that until now, until that moment, it did not agree with this orientation and this methodology, and therefore this has a purpose, which is to attend not only to their complaints, but also to improve the service. Teams are also formed with a gender perspective, which, as you know, has cost us a lot in all areas that the gender perspective actually entered into the nine methodologies and orientations. And we're obviously trying to make sure that all these targets are complete by putting the infant and the teenager in the center. Prevention, detection and attention to child abuse must be done in a cross-cutting way. Here we are absolutely in agreement, so there is a protocol that we have established with Councillor El Homrani, a protocol for dealing with child abuse and adolescence in the field of health, which is quite recent, and which, even recently, is being revised in certain things that we have detected, that have gone on to date, that we want to incorporate as, for example, contributions from the Catalan Institute of Women with a gender perspective. I think that's the point. The protocols are not left years and breads. Obviously, when we make a protocol we try to be robust enough to stay, but the protocols are alive – some more alive than others, because some need constant revision – but this, still very new, so it's already under review. The goal is: to improve the detection of abuse, to help families prevent these situations, and to avoid, of course, secondary victimization of infants and adolescents without causing this to be an underdiagnostic. And, for the first time, I include the detection of possible abuse of primary care – and that, I have to say, according to the figures, is working very well. Expand the role of primary and community care professionals in the detection of women in their actions to promote, precisely, this early detection and notification of cases, at the time that also protects children and professionals. And to improve this protocol, as I said, after its publication, with better proposals coming from different collections. So, we're still on this line that you said if we believe in interdepartmental work in this aspect. Obviously. And we've talked a lot about the way they're integrated units, because they protect the smallest of them. And this is led by the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, and by us, from the field of salvation, as from the field of justice, too, we are that indispensable support in this integrality, all that obviously when we talk about childhood, when we talk about adolescence, the one who carries the singing voice is the Department of Social Affairs and Families. We pushed the first Barnahus, this first model, which is a model in other countries and which obviously also incorporates people who help us to train people from here. In this pilot test, which will be initiated close to Tarragona, who seeks to give this holistic response to infants and adolescents who have suffered sexual abuse. We're in position, right, but it's a long-awaited test. It's a long-awaited evidence, too, from the professional realm, because it gives a capacity to work with infants in a way that they have believed whenever it was to be done, and so the units come out, they come out of good will, to want to do something when there's a problem. Later, we need to study its implementation within the territory. But you said, "Why are we putting people on the march and forming these functional teams of experts? Because we can't wait, we can't wait, in this case detection, for it's all deployed in the integrated model, because we, the EFEs, are in the service of this multi-disciplinary attention. They're not single-handed, but we're starting to move on so they can fit in. Moreover, with the will that they are in the whole territory to guarantee the highest territorial equity. The expert functional teams are this part of greeting that hopes to give response to the needs of these children in a multidisciplinary environment that will be the new model of Barnahus. And in these cases, not acute, less than seventy-two hours. Therefore, avoid secondary victimization – this obviously corresponds to putting it out of the way –, avoid contamination of the infant's report, prioritize the psychological attention attached to each case with full coordination with community care, primary care and CSMIJs. We do the clinical – clinical – diagnosis that is not the forensic and social diagnosis, that are the competence of Justice and are the competence of the DGAIA, respectively, and, above all, we put a lot of emphasis on psychological treatment. Why are we deploying it to the whole territory? So why is this accessibility necessary to the whole territory. And we have built this territorial map where these functional teams of experts will be located: in Lleida, in Camp de Tarragona – with the pilot proof of the already integrated unit of inici, completely integrated – in Girona, central Catalonia, in Barcelona city, in the « metro south and Eastern Valleys, in the « metro north... Therefore, to all the territories of Catalonia we try that in the most appropriate way they can have a quick access. And obviously... and I'll keep explaining. I think I've made some things very clear to you that you asked me: Parental alienation syndrome, morbid concern. They cannot be used, they are not part of a valid clinical diagnosis at these times. You asked me: "Do you think they have complemented protecting the right of infants? I say to him: "We cannot guarantee that in all cases it has been completed. And, obviously, there are many cases and many differences. What I have clearly is that it is always work not only from the health system of Catalonia, but also from the Department of Social Affairs and Families – and also from Justice, in this case – to protect a right that is clear, which is the right of infants. If this institutional masculinism, which is in force in our society... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] If this masculinism, which is valid throughout society, also in the health system, we have to eradicate it in the best of all systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.15.0	Counselor, thank you. In order to make the reply, the deputy has a new turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.16.0	It will, of course, advise that it is the one that has been granted to these children, consented and wanted – that is, when we have aspired to the model of children's or Barnahus's homes – that it is to avoid them having to explain the same in numerous occasions, that it means revictimization, and, moreover, that it means contamination of this child's witnesses, and that it means many more difficulties because then there can be a criminal case. Therefore, they are the only units of full attention to victims of sexual rape, to these child victims of sexual rape, which responds to the process of detection and diagnosis, but also to the process of complaint and judicial proceedings. And that's the children's homes. This cannot be done from Salvation – it cannot be done from Salvation. I understand that we can't be waiting for two years, three years, for the children's homes to be deployed to the whole territory. Absolutely shared. You, who have the resources to get these units out of the territory, why don't you dedicate these resources to getting the children's homes out of the territory more quickly? That's the model we're betting on. Did I mention it before and repeat it: a model or one for each department? One like the government, one like the country or a depenent from each department? From Salvation, you, what you have to do is support as health professionals to these integrated units and to the treatment of mental salvation. And there is a lot to do, in the treatment of mental salvation, after these victims. They don't believe in new units of detection, Counselor. If the problem you have with UFAM, pass it to UFAM, the financing to UFAM. They do not believe alternatives to UFAM to the rest of the territory. We create children's homes in the rest of the territory. And we're holding diagnostic units from Health, because it's not the paper that surrounds them and because all the evidence and all the reports show that since Health a very small proportion of the percentage of infants who have been abused is diagnosed. It's not from Salvation from where this diagnosis is to be made and, obviously, they're never expert reports. Who's training these EFE personnel, will you advise? And with five criteria? We are pleased that they are reviewing this new protocol, it was one of the things that I had reserved for me if in case for the answer to ask it, because we know that from the Catalan Institute of Donations and from the National Council of Women they have already brought to them complaints respect the perspective of genere or not sufficient perspective of genere in this protocol of the health system respect the infant victims of sexual rape. So, we're glad you're reviewing it, we'll be loving this review with a fan. But I can tell you clearly, Counselor: this question had a very clear intention. A year ago I made an inquiry and a very complete motion respecting the comprehensive and comprehensive approach, like the Government, to sexual rapes against children. This had a very concrete objective. One, as other autonomous communities are making to the rest of Spain and many organizations and institutions, this Parliament clearly states that SAP and its derivatives must be eradicated from our public services, and as long as we urge the Government to complete its duty to ensure that this pseudo-scientific and harmful practice for infants and seas in our country is completed. But at the same time repair, which is reviewed all reports issued for years by UFAM, at least all those in which it is detected that there are types of SAP or its derivatives, and intend to repair the consequences that are still having those reports. Because the immediate object of this inquiry and of the motion that we will be making in the next fifteen days is that there is not one more case like yesterday, where a mother is withdrawn, her children are taken away from her hands to give them to a supposedly abusive father. And the motion must also serve to pronounce us as a parliament against this use of false parental alienation syndrome and derivatives, but also to bet on a single model of approach to this issue – a single model. If the government doesn't agree on a single model, we'll do it from Parliament again and mark them who the line is. And the only model has to be the one that serves, the one that is scientifically approved in other countries. Stop putting money on what doesn't give us results. Or I will say it in another way, he will advise: parin les pous – parin el pous – to Sant Joan de Deu. Parins les pous a l'Església...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.17.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.18.0	It cannot be that England continues to lay its hands on our ovaries, our children and our lives. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.19.0	To make the reply, the counselor has the word. When he wants to. [[Widow's remorse.]] Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.20.0	Well, I think he's engaged in a certain dispute. What we really shouldn't do, Congresswoman – what we really shouldn't do, Congresswoman – is sweep the property and institution of the centre with professionals and their methodology. This UFAM isn't the UFAM many years ago. This unit, which has changed and explained it before – new methodology, new orientation and obviously many things in the field of medicine, many things also in any area, as well as mental salvation, of what it is – has been varying with the years, by lot. By chance they now incorporate a gender perspective, which was not there before. So now we're listening to a lot of child escorts than they did for 20 years, 30 years back and 60 years back, by luck. By chance this was incorporated from the Department of Social Affairs and Families, which brings Childhood and Adolescence and also from the Catalonian health system: listening to infants, listening to women, listening to people in general. By the way, that's the way we're going. And by luck – and here I want to make a clear defense – the health professionals are at the side of it – they are at the side of it. And if it is detected and if it is consensual – and I repeat it again because it may not have been clear – if it is consensual; yes, it remains clear that this parental alienation syndrome, this morbid concern, not part of clinical diagnostics, does not have to be part of clinical diagnostics for all health professionals. And that's clear to them. How do you orient these professionals? How do we take into account that professionals are a key piece in this case of salvation? , and certainly not with two different models but a model of the whole government, a model of the whole Catalan society for the approach of abuse and child abuse. It is a joint model, but we, of course, from the Catalonian health system bring it to what we are experts in. The best we can do is keep the professionals well-formed. The goal is to give the best possible attention. We have external trainers; a gender perspective course has begun, I said, organized for the Catalan Institute of Donations, coordinated with DGAIA and other departments. Women courses and seminars organized also for organizations that are experts in childhood with Save the Children, taught by professionals of a Barnahus already consolidated in the north of Europe ; fem training in initial clinical interview for an expert proposed from DGAIA. Aquas makes an assessment to determine the psychological treatments with more evidence to have adequate training in these, in which they generate more evidence; we use consensually the model of information included in the protocol, which means that more than one of the diagnostics related to the confirmation of abuse or maltreatment – which are already in place at the CIM-10, which is already there – also adds to the diagnostics that would involve the trauma: post-traumatic stress, anxiety, depression. That's what they claim, and that's part of what we have to do from the health system. We adjust these teams with the DGAIA protection task and with the intervention of the criminal technical advisory teams for the pre-constituted test. All this is coordination, all this is a single model for these children and adolescents. Therefore, the creation of these EFEs is the part of Salut in contributing to this unique model, and these units will set up a full set of expert formats. Besides, CatSalut is doing a process of fitness accreditation starting with the two already existing, and then we'll do it ourselves. This means that there will be no units that do not meet these criteria. Therefore, there will be no professionals working with other criteria that do not follow the established criteria. And obviously, what we're working on is a therapeutic treatment adapted to each case with this victim recovery goal. It's not yet explicit, because we don't have to do things by name of sessions that touch you; each recovery process will be different, and so we have to do this with the psychological treatment as a key piece in this recovery, and so says Annex 10 of the protocol that describes this psychological approach in the intervention, obviously, not only of the victim, but also of the families. And in the case of the review, respect what we need to open an expedient, according to the regulations we have, we need an individual motivation for each patient; it is not a collective motivation. Therefore, everything – absolutely everything – that entered the Department of Health has been reviewed, and we will continue to do so. Of course we open dispatchers, but we open individual dispatchers. It is not possible to open, today, with the regulations in force, hundreds of consignments with a collective motivation, so we will have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.21.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.22.0	...to find a way to make it possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.23.0	Thank you. [[He asked the Government about actions to introduce a gender perspective into the health system]] [[300-00245/12]] The next question is about the actions to introduce the gender perspective into the health system, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.24.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, this is a special week. On the day..., the diumenge, on the 8th of March we have a date again in the street, yesterday the deputy Jenn Díaz said, but so too do the Constellera Bassa and President Forcadell: it is not a struggle, the feminist struggle, which is fought only on the 8th of March, it is a struggle that is fought every day, and it is not only in the street, but it is also in the institutions, and also in the Government. And that's why, as yesterday was also about the Pla d'egalité, the monogram and the Ple that we made of women and the work that has been done since the Parliament, today we want to focus on the work of government and also, especially, on the work in the field of the Department of Health. Because, as I said, the advisor to the principle of the legislature, it's a legislature that has the feminist agenda on the table, and we've seen it with the assumptions, but we've also seen it in the field of work, in the educational field, with social and political participation... And in the field of salvation, almost a year and a half ago, when he made an inquiry of this very place, on July 18, when he began the legislature, and when he set us what were the objectives, we said that the women live, patimo, emmaltim and we heal and die differently; and we live differently because we live longer, but we live with the lowest quality of life, because the hope of life is different. We women live more and, in fact, we take more care of ourselves, we have better life styles, but despite this we live with better quality. But also different path, and it is shown with scientific evidence that the women are more suffering, that we go later to the hospital, and this also makes them diagnosed by midday four years later. So..., also the health system that gives us the chance to stretch for the comfort of gynaecologists or that makes us have more cesareans for the comfort of working hours, so it also comes up. He said that we also had a different illness and, therefore, we had three examples of it that day: endometriosis, as well as eminently female malaise; but also malaise that affects both sexes, as depressions, but that despite this, women suffer three times more of these depressions, or malaise like infarct, which have always been studied from the biomedical model with man as the model of reference and which does – and this week we see it in a TV3 report on the evenings, after the Telenews – that there are many people who still do not know the signs of their infractions, because they still think that signs like the pain that oppresses them is the sign of childhood, when this man is the only one. We said that the day we also treated each other differently, and that is why it was also important that clinical trials and trials with drugs also take into account the gender perspective. What we die different, and in this, malaise as an infarct causes 50_percent of women to die, and only 30_percent of men in the same cases; and we also need to address issues such as euthanasia. And in this it is obvious that we must eliminate inequalities, inequalities in the patriarchal system, in the economic system, in the social system, in the cultural system, but also all these inequalities that the health system does. That's why with everything we've been diagnosing and all the proposals we've made, we're talking about changing this view of the health system. Don't just talk about curing but taking care of it, and that's obviously a profession that's the one that approaches it the most, and it's the nursing profession. Not only in the domestic sphere, but it is also a caregiver who often takes care of women and who does so in an unpaid way, but who should do so in the professional sphere, in the health field. And that, taking advantage that it's the year of Nursing Now, the year of the nurses, so it means facing up to changing these roles. And that's why we ask him to explain to us what roles he addresses the infirmary in the accessibility decree, but also to value them and give them tools, and that's why I would ask him to explain to us how the nursing prescription decree affects us, and also the training, working conditions or lack of nurses to whom we will see briefly and which the president of Lleida's College of Nurses has often explained. And that would require you to explain it to us through the Dialeg Forum or the Convenient to improve university studies in the health field, which you presented a week ago with Councilwoman Chacón, or also Instruction 7/2018, which addresses this reconciliation, these times of primary care. I'll give you some more examples. In the field of research, a few days ago we had the International Day of the Child and Science and we talked about the need to make visible women and to make visible references, to break these glass braids that we still have university professors, the principal researchers. And on this, I would like to set the example of the PERIS, because in the initial inquiry that made him in 2018, we were just talking about that the PERIS – the strategies to promote health research – were not an example. And I say I put it there because, I don't know if he'll remember it, because just because the last call of PERIS didn't sign it, the general secretary signed it, because you were on maternity leave. And that's one more example of feminizing and bringing normality to political management. But also because the criteria of the assaults have been added, those assaults that must take into account the women in their exhibitions, and that cannot be overlooked. But there are also issues such as the technical committee, which is parity, and something that should already be normal, which is not today, or the fact that the contract can be terminated, if it is with PERIS, not only by maternity, but by problems during pregnancy or by problems, for example, during hiring, which are also things that we have not yet had normality. Four more ambits, masculinist violins. If women have a 50_percent chance of long-lived mascot rape..., and that's why the key role of the health care system, in this sense, would please us as explained, as well as the actions in the Pregnancy Follow-up Protocol – you know that pregnant women are also more at risk of this mascot rape – and also what they have done to address female genital mutilation. In the field of universalization, he knows that Esquerra has long since left universalization, salvation for everyone. And so, in fact, you did it here in 2017, with the law that Councillor Comín was carrying, a law that was pioneering, but we also made a lot of groups in the Congress of Deputies when the PP tried to explain that salvation for everyone had to be every time we had money to pay for it, and that first they were some and then, in any case, and if they did, the others. This has been different here. And in case there were any doubts about Instruction 5/2019– and we haven't discussed it very much with some members of the Health Commission – so we appreciate that you have temporarily withdrawn this instruction. As we know it well, we know that in no case has it been done to limit access absolutely to anyone, much less to those pregnant women who have migrated, but in case there is any doubt that this was to pursue the health fraud, so removing it in time and being able to regulate it is also a way of recognizing that it needs to be done and done well. We would also ask you to explain the Birth Protocol to us. We're talking about one or two women also having postpart depression, depression after baby birth, and therefore how this is faced; or the decrease in cesarean sections that fall into the health care system; or also the first home visit. And it's obvious that whoever's moving, we have to start to understand that it has to be the health system and not always the user or the user. So that it may be in its inner climate and not that it should be moved. And as they know I'm always making examples of Lleida, today I've been looking for one from another hospital, and in this case from the Hospital Clínic, and the new hospital by day or the new unit, which is a pioneer in southern Europe, and which addresses this relationship between the sea and the baby, and how we're also compatible with this day to day. And finally, because when we talk about gender we often talk about women, obviously, but we also need to talk about the deployment of Instruction 4/2017, and that is why I would ask you to talk to us about how the premise or the number of surgical interventions bring back the approach of the model of care to transgender people. Because not only with money, but also with sensitisation is how we understand that society has different ways of expressing the gene; and there are women with penises and there are men with vaginas, and what we need to have the sensitivity to hear is that what's wrong is not the thing, but the eyes of people looking at this thing. Therefore, we would ask you to consider the actions that have taken, in this case, in the model of care for trans persons, at birth, in the universalization of the health system, in masculinist rapes, in the search and also in the overall profession of the Professional Dialeg Forum, and also especially of nurses, who said that they are in charge of this care within the health system. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.26.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, I've always said, there are differences, and there are none and they're known, and so the only thing we have to do is work with them. What we really need to address is inequality. And there are many inequalities, of course. They are well present to the whole society and also in the health system, in those services that we have made available to citizens, to all citizens, to the cent_per_cent of citizens, in which more than 50_per_cent are women. Therefore, these inequalities that can assume inequalities also in opportunities, different opportunities that have men and women to access benefits, to access resources, in the field of salvation are transformed into especially sensitive. We can't see that these inequalities don't exist, because they are there, because they have consequences, and because, if we don't take this into account, we're going to make policies that keep these basics. And, therefore, as the responsibility for public policies, as the Administration that we are, as the Government of the Generality, as the Department of Health, but above all in our policies, if we do not take it into account, we would have been perpetuators of this biaix. And I am not prepared, to be a perpetuator of biaxes, but to be a crusher, and, therefore, I put it as a priority of the legislature, absolutely priority, at the same level as many other aspects that are typical of the health field, that we have to incorporate the perspective of gender in all the policies of our government, also – also – in Salut. We need to transform the system so that we have this feminist look at all its levels and also at the level of care practice, research, the level of how we treat data, how we collect them, how we explain them and above all in the construction of these public policies. Therefore, I always say it is not just changing services, but it is how we plan, how we implement and evaluate public policies. And in line with what you have highlighted, which seems to me to be a very important aspect, in line with the fact that the health system is not only to cure but to take care of, and – you have said very well – there is a healthcare profession that maximizes the representation of all this, to give value to the cures. In this patriarchal society in which we still live, but above all we carry it for centuries, the cures were a subject related to women, relegated to women and, therefore, it was based on the premise that it was of value. It had value in a society in which value brings it that money, that economic contribution, that center of life, which is work life and economic prosperity. What we do today is – and more than the realm of salvation can be seen very clearly – the center must be life, the very life. We dedicate ourselves to the sciences of life and salvation. So if we turn this look into all policies, not just in the realm of salvation, because the center follows life, not that life that is supposed to be a patriarchal society, profitable and productive and economically productive, and start looking at the real productivity of what we don't take into account and don't give it value today, so I think we'll do a good service. And that's very well expressed by a profession, which is the nursing profession. For this reason, the bet was very clear with the Decree of credence of nursing prescription, which allows more than forty-five thousand nurses in Catalonia who can believe themselves to indicate, use, authorize the dispensation of medicines and sanitary products from human use and which, moreover, many of them are part of their usual practice in that they are the most connoisseurs, in that they are directly attentive to people. Also in the accessibility decree we value the role and capabilities of the infirmary to make primary care more resolute. She's not the nurse next to the doctor. They're multidisciplinary teams, where doctors, midwives, nurses make a team, and they can take care of and solve as much as possible, if we deliver on their potential. A decree which, moreover, incorporates, apart from the primary care, some aspects that we incorporate with guarantee, such as the mammary reconstructions plus tattooing in interventions after a "mommy neo". And obviously you said that too, it's the year of the nurses, it's the year of Nursing Now and we've absolutely involved ourselves, participating in the working groups and trying to do the maximum of actions, not from the Health Department, but everyone doing them, that everyone drives actions to give value to the nursing profession, that people know much more than our nurses represent in our health care system in Catalonia. And that's also what we did in the area of the Professional Dialeg Forum and we were able to sign the other day with all the universities to improve the studies of health professions. Who's the turn we're introducing and where universities work rape rape with us to make it possible? That the formation is no longer only giving value to those acquaintances, which obviously must be, but that it is a more humanistic formation, a formation in values, so essential in a system that is dedicated to attending and responding to people. Let's adjust the competition profiles. They are absolutely vocational professions; that must be reflected, this vocation, already from training to university in the formation of specialists and, obviously, after in practice and in the exercise of the profession with four priority objectives: this training in values and attitudes; better accessibility to university studies for the development of the competitive contents of values and actions favourable to the professionals of salvation. And in 2019 we have constituted, in the framework of the Interuniversity Council, two first working groups for the approach of the program of Degree of Nursing and of Medicine with the possibility to incorporate also these enabled and values of the candidates. Obviously, we also continue to work in the work and personal reconciliation, in what I had before, to put life – life – at the centre, giving value to what it is to exercise a profession, which it is to be able to work, and all the value, but also giving value to life beyond work. With this Instruction 7/2018, which sets the operating hours of all primary care centers and of the ASIRs until the eight of the evening, with a certain homogenization of what we have been doing in the country. And you've talked a lot about the field of investigation, because you also see this field and you don't know it, and you know the potential that the investigation can have, the search in our country, that lies the future in the present. And I was able to watch, on the mark of the Day of Women and Girls in Science, the days that were done at the German Trias and Pujol Institute, at the Institute of Research, and to see that everything that we have ever done and that we are doing and that we are doing, therefore, has its fruits and is magnificent. Not only the PERIS, which established joint teams and also a gender perspective in investigations, is not only equal and evenly posed men and women in investigation teams, in the groups that are present, but the investigations also have this gender perspective and do not leave 50_percent of the population. Also with the Guide to the Introduction of the Gender Perspective for Investigations, Evaluations and Planning, it is not only the investigations but also the way we evaluate them will mark us as we want the search to follow. And with a cluster of genera in the sciences of Health, which was a pioneer, which put the directions of the dinosaur search centers in Catalonia's health to sign a letter of compromise for gender equality in search centers; twelve commitments and action plan; graphs of genera weavers, in which they establish a compromise that they want to end..., and they want to end, because it is the best contribution that can be made to our society, with fewer genera weavers, more knowledge and more..., and more progress will be made in the investigation. And also from the Aquas, with the revision of the indicators with a gender perspective of the results center. You also talked about male-based violence. The male violence that the 50_per_cent of patim women to the length of our life. In Catalonia there are 5,510 women of more than fifteen years who have been attending health services for male violence in 2018. 72_per_cent already from primary care, which is very positive; 5,510 women who have been directly attached to the health care system. The scope of primary care, as I say, in this 72_per_cent, is a primordial scope of intervention, because it is very close to people, with this universal, territorial character that it has. Increasing the ability to detect male-based rapes, I think we're going to make a lot of progress in our society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the congresswoman's turn again. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.28.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, I start with the TV3 program, which he gave them before, Som donnes, because – he says – we are 51_per_cent, but in change we have only 3_per_cent of direct charges, or we cover a 28_per_cent less or they diagnose us four years later. Therefore, I am aware of these inequalities – and so on – and Members like Najat who work for me in Salut, but I work for Afers Socials..., and also for all parliamentary groups, because there has been a legislature where we have talked a lot about salvation and we have talked a lot about these inequalities and how to approach them in the field of society, but also in the health system. And that's why, too, I congratulate the Health Department's communication team, which has prepared an exhibition at Palau Robert that talks about it and that addresses it and that I invite all Members who have not been able to see it, because it's an exhibition that talks about this greeting for everyone and how we approach it. Therefore, we can see these diseases, but also the references and, taking advantage that the coronavirus is a topical issue, so, also, why not? , to always stop seeing the same epidemiology – there is nothing against it – but to start seeing epidemiologists and to start seeing nurses talking about how we do this task, as well as these recommendations that Congressman Soler spoke to us yesterday – about the clean hands and the prevention that we need to have these days – and that we bring out talent. He asks you to continue planning with a gender perspective and to draw us also in this second intervention the future, where the department goes in these areas and in those that he now wanted to talk to us. And, finally, because 2018 you ended up with a sentence and said that President Forcadell... – reminded President Forcadell –, and said that she did not make empty speeches, but that everything that she thought was to do, proposed it and then executed it. And today we have seen many examples of this. Things that you yourself or the groups proposed in 2018, and you executed it. And, therefore, and I end with Constellera Bassa, who tells us the other day that she is with the king of trade unionism, with the gulf of freedom and with the lilac of feminism that we will achieve this Catalan republic that we long for. So let us continue with these republican values that we are advancing, that we are continuing, because we need society to look at us differently, but also that the health system addresses this perspective of gender in all policies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.29.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, to make your reply, you finally have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.30.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, we could talk hours about what we have done and what we need to do and, above all, about the proposals we have. The World Health Organization made us a review of the 30 years of Pla de Salut in Catalonia, made us some proposals, didn't it? , of which were the areas that we could not leave ourselves in the new planning and in the new plans of salvation and assign to it the need to strengthen the perspective of genere. We often conjugate a gender perspective with only a woman's aspect; a gender perspective is to improve society as a whole. And obviously, in that imbalance and inequality that is always there, we must put special emphasis on what we have forgotten, which particularly affects women. That's why this strategy for gender equity in the health system, that's why we need to push it. And that's why we've got a board of gender policy advisors with fourteen people with gender expertise, diverse backgrounds, not only in the strictly sanitary field, where there's: infirmary, medicine, bioethics, pediatrics, female genital mutilation and male-based violence experts and people from the entities that have been working on this for years. Quarterly meetings that we are developing and really are helping us very much to deploy the gender perspective in health policies. And not only that, but we're incorporating a participatory process to develop this strategy. It's a lot of entities, it's a lot of people, and there's a lot of experts in our country that can bring us... and that you're willing to bring, that's the most interesting. Moreover, we add to the new models of accreditation of our centers incorporating that there must be a gender perspective. And not just that, there are other aspects that aren't focused, are there? , only in gifts, only in the perspective of genera. What do we talk about when we talk about genera? There are many cross-sectional areas, women are diverse, there are also no disabilities. And, to give an answer, this 2020 we have incorporated forty-five mammographs adapted with territorial equity criteria. This was a very clear demand for women with disabilities that we could put in their service. And it seems to me that... maybe someone can consider, in the whole health field, small actions, so they're great actions that change the lives of these women. Therefore, we must put emphasis on those diseases that affect differently and that many times are oblivious. It has not always been said that the women die, above all, of Alzheimer's: dos_de_cada_tre that is diagnosed are women. So, how do we approach this? With Pla demented people. Genoll arthrosis has a prevalence of 30_per_cent in women: Genoll arthrosis plate. Multiple sclerosis, set_of_each_your diagnostics are women: web application. We choose, to help the affected, in this case, but also affected, for this disease, to choose the best treatment that adapts to their lives, in this listening to people. Endometriosis – which we have not been able to speak enough in this Parliament – which affects 10_percent of women and which was absolutely invisible, and we have placed it on the table; the new models of approach of male violence, and also look to the future. There's the Women Medical Device Design. We want genera policies to permeate all actions. "All means" all, also the design of medical teams; the design of medical teams who have to use them has to find all the utility. They want to rethink them. Therefore, I want to participate in this day, which we will see if it will finally be possible to do, of Women Medical Device Design - Hackathon, from which we must come the first decade of design of medical teams with a gender perspective. I think that's the key. They must be useful for the people who use them, they must be useful for the end user. That's all we're doing. So, to sum up, and very much, I don't want to leave a key environment in the perspective of gender, which is the sphere of mental salvation. You have mentioned the Protocol of Attention and Accompaniment to the Birth in Catalonia, which has different futures; but it has one that I find especially important, which is to detect early postpartum depression. I was able to visit the Hospital de Dia Mare-Bebè, which you mentioned. A postpart depression detected, treated and accompanied by professionals who know how to recover the bond of the mother with the baby; an untreated postpart depression is family drama and dramatic for this baby. Therefore, I believe that this is a very great insistence, that we have to put it on the table and we have to do it. Therefore, "generate means genere, and here we place it all, we place it in the Esca, we place it in the approach of trans people, to respect the transit that each person decides. It's not changing sex, it's just making the deal that every school decides. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the use of public space]] [[300-00246/12]] The next question is about the use of public space, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.32.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, this is a saint we're going back to. With you in the Government of the Generalitat, this is the tale of never ending. Again I see myself under the obligation – the systematic violation of the rights and freedoms of thousands and thousands of Catalans obliges me to do so – to question him in relation to the use of public space, for the biased and partisan interpretation they make of the rules in force in relation to the guarantee of the free exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms. Because from the Department of the Interior of the Generalitat, from the General Directorate of Security Administration, the rights of assembly and demonstration are given precedence, although they collide with the rights of many, many Catalan citizens, who systematically violate, as is the case with the daily courts, already 143_days, of the avenue Meridiana, in Barcelona. And I refer specifically to the Directorate-General for Security Administration, headed by an agent of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps converted into a politician, because among the functions entrusted to him are those that correspond to the governmental authority in relation to the rights of assembly and demonstration. I am convinced that a vast majority of the members of the body of which Mr Jardi is a part do not see with good eyes his way of proceeding. It is the groups and parapolitical associations that serve as a front mask to institutional separatism that robs us of those who make and undo at their will, with the approval of the heads of the Department of Interior, of the councillor himself and of the disgovernment of which he is a part. We have seen it with the courts in the Meridiana, which have been allowed despite not having been even communicated, as ordered by the regulations in force. In fact, the first communication made to us was made on December 6, 2019, fifty-three days after the arbitrary and unpunished cuts began in the Meridian, apparently on behalf of the self-named « Catalan National Assembly, of that parapolitical association that you control and that you usually call « ANC. You will tell me that you only comply with the Constitution. I tell you that what you do in this disgovernment is precisely the opposite: to fail to comply with your institutional and governmental obligations, regulated by the Constitution itself, by the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy and by all the legislation that is applicable when it comes to regulating rights that come into collision. You, who force through the parapolitical parties and organizations of your environment that this collision occurs continuously, always resolve to the detriment of the rights of citizens on foot. In doubt for the separatist. What do I say, "in doubt? Always for the separatist. I have told you on more than one occasion and I repeat it today: you make a biased and partisan use of your governmental powers. You, who are part of the State, who are a public administration within the social and democratic rule of law that protects us all, cannot hide in your militant national populism to violate the fundamental rights of many, of the majority of the citizens of Catalonia, prioritizing the right of demonstration and assembly of the groups and associations that support their separatist obsession. You will tell me that you have the right to defend what you defend, that you have the right to defend your claim to break Spain. Yes, of course I do. Our social and democratic state of law is first and foremost guaranteed and respectful of freedom of thought and political ideas and ideals, but within the rule of law. They have no right, for example, to give a coup d'état with night and light, violating the rights of the opposition, which represents more than half of the citizens of Catalonia, as they did in September and October 2017. They have no right to impose on us their republic from three to four, from a totalitarian court; neither have they nor anyone recognizes it, no matter how much they mount sectarian pilgrimages – by the way, less and less plentiful. And, of course, they have no right to impose their own convictions through conduct that may be criminal and contrary to laws enacted under democratic constitutional mechanisms. He has repeatedly stated that he cannot do anything else, that he is obliged to respect the right to assembly and demonstration, the right to protest. Sure. But when there is a collision of rights, as has been the case in Catalonia for too long, its obligation is to respect and guarantee the rights of all, not only those who seek to impose their totalitarian ideas at the cost of violating the rights of the rest of the citizenry day after day. Because this is what has been happening in Catalonia for too long now. We are seeing and suffering how the most hyperventilated members of separatism, many of them with a seat in the light, have endeavoured to impose on society as a whole their totalitarian vision. With a seat in the light, yes. Many of them with public pay as civil servants, or public sector workers, or belonging to groups or associations suitably barleyed with public funds or holding the office of councillors or deputies or both, those hyperventilated, some of them assiduous to this Parliament, who continue to strive to impose their totalitarian vision and prevent the rest of the citizens from thinking, expressing themselves and working in freedom. I repeat this, Counselor, in case it has not been clear to you: for too long in Catalonia, fundamental rights have been violated by many, many Catalans, the majority of citizens, without recumbent or modesty and, of course, without the slightest feeling of guilt, filled with blind faith in the mandate of the elites who lead them, who preach to them that they are protected by a superior and pre-eminent right. That superior right that burdens them with reasons to protest by cutting arbitrarily and continuously – if appropriate, with the use of force – main channels of communication. Or that has led them to assault essential infrastructures, armed by someone other than a parliamentary spokesman, preventing the freedom of movement of people and goods. We have been enduring their victimistic frustration for months, the frustration of those who violate the rights of other citizens and the frustration of those who claim to be victims since their status as officials of the Generalitat Administration, enjoying public salaries that are not earned at all. Their frustration, the finding that they are not the navel of the world and that they are not assisted by the law, neither by the national nor by the international, does not empower them to violate rights or to allow such a violation in a systematic manner. You, Councillor, and the governments that have preceded you, both Mas and Puigdemont, are responsible for having kept expectations that, you know well – you have always known – are far removed from reality. His dream, his obsession, is nothing more than that, an impossible dream, which in his despair have turned into a nightmare for a majority of Catalans. Counselor, without expense [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] , because it does not seem to worry the least that the rights of citizens who want to move freely through the public space and who see how they are being cut off, as in the case of the Avenida Meridiana de Barcelona, are systematically being violated, day after day, without anything being done to prevent what is being done by those who have the power, no longer the power, but the obligation to safeguard the rights of all, not only of a part of the citizens. For your department, that is, for you and, specifically, for the Directorate-General of the Security Administration, which is in charge of the role of the governmental authority in exercising the right of assembly and demonstration, these arbitrary and continuous courts, since they serve your spurious interests, do not deserve censorship or censure. Let them perjure thousands of drivers and road users every day, let the neighbors and traders in the area be tired of suffering the consequences of their leaving office, that there has been an escalation in conflictivity, that several attacks on users, neighbors and journalists..., you, you and your general manager, bring them to the pair. Do you continue to argue that there is a preeminent right, that of assembly and demonstration, over anyone else and that, in the event of a collision of rights, abusive occupation of public space by their acolytes outweighs the right that assists all citizens to move freely, to carry out their daily activities normally, using public space, the space of all, without any skirmishes or arbitrary limitations? If your answer is that yes, that the right of assembly and demonstration prevails, that what is left to the users of the Meridiana, to the thousands of drivers who are affected every day by the arbitrary cuts, is to endure and that the neighbors, traders and small entrepreneurs of the area have to do what they have to do is to wait seated until the hyperventilated ones lose belle and stop following the sectarian guidelines that mobilize them, because their department does not intend to act and avoid the systematic violation of their rights, we say no, that we will not allow it, and that yes, that we will act decisively to end the abuse that you allow and defend. There's enough, counselor, there's enough. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.33.0	To answer the question, the inside counselor, Mr. Miquel Buch, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Secretaries-General, Directors-General, good morning. Congressman, I appreciate that complicit look you've got, but I know the club's people we don't have to let go anymore. [[the Councillor riu]] I'm not in time to wake up anymore. I have heard his intervention, and practically to the public workers he has told them vague, he has only missed the word'malignant'. I demand a little respect from the public workers of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, of the local administrations. [[Some applause.]] He has also dealt with hyperventilated institutional representatives democratically chosen for the people, and, therefore, I also ask a certain respect, also, for these representatives of the people, because in the end the society has chosen them. And I don't know who's more hyperventilated, do I? If we have to get into hyperventilation, I don't know what you mean when you talk about hyperventilations; but I've seen scenes here, especially there, in the area where you sit, that might help us define what hyperventilation is. Therefore, do not say or withdraw to democratic representatives of the people according to what, when you are the first to practice the same forms of iron, that is to defend your ideology. Look, I'm going to give you a legal intervention, an intervention based on laws, on judgments, on courts that I've listened to from you more than once to defend, and to defend them in an accurate way. So, I'll be based on what I have, which is the law, right? And the one that has to be completed. In fact, the Department of the Interior, let's just say that it has to be very scrupulous in the compliment of the law, basically because we have to treat everyone for an equal, right? And here, therefore, political ideology is very first in the Department of Interior. As a result, a certain public debate has been generated on the demand for the right of assembly and demonstration and its possible limits, when its exercise is affected by respect for other legally protected rights and benefits, such as the right of movement, which you have cited. They will understand that this is not a minor issue and that I will want to deal with it before the sources of the right, a reason for which they will allow me today, against which I prefer to do usually, today I want to make a more accurate reading of my intervention and without leaving the guide, with the will to maintain the utmost rigour in making constant references to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. The first consideration I would like to share with you, with all of you, is that the right of assembly and demonstration is one of the most important of the fundamental rights in any democratic state. And as I would not want my intervention to be considered subjective, I would already regard the progress I will make as accurately as possible in the case law that the same Constitutional Court has developed on this fundamental right. For the Constitutional Court, the right of demonstration is characteristic in order to constitute a collective manifestation of the freedom of expression carried out through a transitory association of persons operating, in an instrumental way, at the service of the exchange or exposition of ideas, of defence of interests or of publicity of problems and claims. This right is enshrined in Article 21 of the Spanish Constitution, which you defend firmly, which recognizes the right to assemble peacefully and without arms. He adds that "in cases of meetings in public transit places and demonstrations, prior communication must be given to the authority, which can only prohibit them when there are substantial grounds for alteration of the public order, with peril for people and goods. It is a fundamental right of own autonomy, but of undeniable instrumental character in relation to other fundamental rights, such as the right of association, the right of political participation, trade union freedom and the right of freedom of expression, to which it is closely linked. In this respect, the European Court of Human Rights states that the right of assembly and demonstration constitutes one of the fundamental rights in a democratic society and therefore should not be interpreted restrictively. Is the right of assembly and manifestation an absolute or unlimited right? If you could ask me. Just as the rest of the phone rights do not constitute an absolute or unlimited right of character, so that they can see certain modulations or limits. In fact, Article 21.2 of the Spanish Constitution states that "it is possible to limit before the existence of public grounds of alteration with peril for persons and goods. And in this same line, Article 10 of the Organic Law 9/1983 of 15 July 1983 precisely regulates the right of assembly, where it is determined that "if the governmental authority considers that there are reasons to prevent alteration of the public order, with persons or benefits, it may prohibit the assembly or demonstration or, if they are in flight, propose the modification of the date, the place, the duration or the itinerary of the meeting or demonstration. Now, what do we mean by public order? From the outset, it must be borne in mind that public order constitutes an indeterminate legal concept, which must be interpreted restrictively in order to facilitate the exercise of the right of assembly and demonstration. In the same way that speech rights cannot be regarded as absolute, public order is not an absolute legal good either. According to Article 21.2, it should be noted that the alteration of the public order in case it does not constitute a sufficient motivator for the effects of restricting this right to use the language, as the repeated constitutional requirement requires that this alteration involves peril for persons and goods. Thus, the case-law has defined and delimited the concept of 'public alteration', in order to justify any restriction or prohibition of the right to manifestation, to situations, for example, of material disorder that endangers the integrity of persons or assets. Finally, it must be borne in mind that there must be well-founded grounds for altering the public order, which implies that the limitation to the exercise of the right to assembly requires a specific motivation. In this sense, the Constitutional Court states that it is not sufficient that there are doubts as to whether the right to assembly could produce negative effects, but that it is necessary that the governmental authority possess sufficient objective data derived from the circumstances of each case, from which any person in a normal situation can rationally conclude that the concentration will produce with total certainty the referred public disorder. In any case, in application of the principle of favouring the right of assembly and demonstration, the favour of freedom, which is so convincing and imperative, can justify the restrictions on this freedom. And when does the right of assembly and demonstration affect the right of freedom of movement? In this case we find ourselves before a situation that can lead to interruptions or paralysiss in the traffic. Also, the interruption of traffic and the restriction of the freedom of movement of non-demonstrating citizens are inherent in the very natural nature of the right to manifestation, as its exercise requires the use of public transport places. It is clear, therefore, that all meetings held in a transit venue will need to involve a restriction of the right to freedom of movement of those non-protesting citizens, who are prevented from walking or moving freely along the path during the celebration of the event. In this sense, the CT has made manifest in various senses that this restriction does not legitimize for itself the authority to prohibit the manifestation, but rather that it says that it manifested in a place of transit alters the public order and puts at risk the integrity of the people and the benefits. Therefore, it is not to alter mobility but to put people or benefits in danger. The CT – I would like to point out – establishes in its case law that in a democratic society the urban space is not only an area of circulation, but also an area of participation. It is for this reason that the Constitutional Court establishes in its judgments that trafficking in urban nuclei cannot be invoked as a generic cause to justify the prohibition of demonstrations. In concrete terms, and from the perspective of Article 21 of the Spanish Constitution, the Constitutional Court refers to the 193/2011 judgment, that "it will only be possible to produce this prohibition when there is a total obstruction of the streets that leads to a circulatory collapsing during a prolonged period of time, so that the immobilization of vehicles is caused and access to certain areas or barrels of the city is prevented, because of the impossibility of enabling alternative lives. As you can see, the Constitutional Court takes an overt position in favour of the exercise of the right to assembly and demonstration. Therefore, no restriction and potential interruption of the traffic can motivate the prohibition of demonstrations. End here, part of my explanation. President, I have one point left, which is when the right of demonstration is exercised repeatedly, which this one also concerns you and you have not done anything and, on the second return, I will finish explaining it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer is the return of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.36.0	Okay. Thank you, Counselor. Pilots out. He's presented us here with a discharge package, the typical discharge package. I tell you, you shouldn't let yourself be misguided. You are now being investigated by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia for alleged misappropriation and prevarication as a result of allowing and seeking an escort service to a fugitive from justice and it is not that we did not warn you in time, but ignored. And we have also warned you in time that what you are doing, political decisions not to exercise, under current law, governmental power to prevent the rights of thousands of citizens from being violated in the face of arbitrary courts that are carried out continuously and, if necessary, violently by separatists may have consequences for you and those who have the function entrusted to you within your department. He will have seen it in the press: we are finalizing a complaint before the prosecutor and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia in relation to its permissivity and that of its general director of Security Administration for the systematic courts of public roads in Barcelona and throughout Catalonia. It is up to you and your decisions to make it effective. We'll see what tour you've got. It will be the prosecution first and, depending on its decision, the High Court may then decide on this matter. I personally doubt that the argument that the right of assembly and demonstration is pre-eminent always and everywhere has just worked in front of the courts. He will tell me that we are judicializing politics, but not: what we are going to do is to defend the thousands of Catalan citizens who see their rights violated arbitrarily and continuously, sometimes with the use of illegitimate violence. Those citizens on foot that you leave in a situation of continued defencelessness. I do not know if there is any other option, because this Government of the Generalitat, like the two that preceded it, has been placed above the law. Of course, you have not taken into account something fundamental, something that fortunately does not depend on you: Spain is a social and democratic state of law. We live, hardly weigh, in a rule of law and seem to be unaware of what that means. A democratic rule of law is based on four essential pillars: rule of law, division of powers, subjection of administration to law and judicial control and fundamental rights and freedoms for all citizens. It is you who, with your incompetence and sectarianism, compel citizens to defend themselves from their arbitrariness and it is our duty to defend the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens, not only those who decide to protest and manifest themselves for it, but also those who want to carry out their daily activities in freedom. Therefore, it is you who force us to resort to justice on behalf of the citizens to whom your rights are violated, so that you as an administration are subject to the law and judicial control. You have chosen to continue to violate the rights of the users of the Meridiana, of the neighbors, traders and small entrepreneurs of the area, against the unfavourable reports of the Urban Guard of Barcelona and the requests of the public security officials of the City of Barcelona who, although late, seem to have finally reacted to the disorder and circulatory chaos that these protests generate. Reports and petitions that, far from limiting the right of assembly, were asking that they be allowed in alternative locations very close to the site of the protests but that do not affect the road traffic of one of the main arteries in Barcelona and the thousands of drivers that get caught every day. Do you intend to continue to ignore these reports and recommendations? Do you still trust the Director General of Security Administration? Do you still believe that the right of assembly and demonstration is above the right to move freely and to live in peace for the users of the public highway and for the affected neighbours and small businesses? Will cutting down major streets and roads become the new entertainment for any group or sectarian association, regardless of the sign, that wants to spread its frustration to all citizens? Is Catalonia going to become a « campi qui pugui, a « salva si qui pugui? Of course, counselor, if it's up to us, it won't be like that. Put the thread in the needle and finish with this mess. Let the users of the Meridian and all the citizens of Catalonia who affect these indiscriminate, illegal and arbitrary heights of the main forms of communication, develop their activities in paucity and freedom. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.37.0	To do the second line, it's the counselor's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.38.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, I see that you are used to forming all the roles of the water, as you have done with the JEC, that you were accusers, convicts and condemns. So you're already condemning me for a trial that you started, because you already told me that I broke the law, you've already sentenced me, right? So, miri, now for now, with a process... No, he didn't say, "supposed. He didn't say, "supposed. I asked him to say it and he didn't say it. He didn't say "suspended." Therefore, as a minimum – as a minimum – they still make it clear that there will be a fair trial. At least they make you see it. Don't wander as you have done with the JEC and this suit that you have so undemocratic to want to be... to form... to have all the papers in the water. [[Widow's remorse.]] That they would assemble us more... or that it would be more a non-democratic rule of other times, huh? – luckily, I have not experienced them personally – but many people have suffered from them, which are anti-democratic and dictatorial rules. I told him the phase would be over. I see you didn't listen to me, because you read your second intervention as it is. And he brought me back to quote things, and he didn't listen to anything I said. So, when you say the empire of the law, that it seems that when you quote the empire of the law so often..., it seems that everything has to tremble..., so, look, the empire of the law, you, when you care if you listen to it and when you don't care if you don't listen to it, because I've been arguing to you a whole series of laws and a whole series of sentences that you haven't made a case. So, well, less threats and more listening to what I'm saying, please. He said that I was missing a fourth point, which is: "And when the right of manifestation is exercised repeatedly, from the clarification of the limitations of the right of assembly and manifestation, it should focus on the aspect of the frequency or attendance in which the right to demonstration is exercised and what effect this may have on its legitimacy, and therefore to what extent this element of repetition could influence a possible limitation or prohibition of the right to assembly or demonstration. That's what you're proposing. In this respect, in the opinion of the same Constitutional Court, set out in its Judgment 24/2015, of 16 February, it makes clear that the temporary character of the right to demonstration does not object to the repetition of manifestation in successive days. The Constitutional Court rejects the fact that the mere fact of repeatedly exercising the right of demonstration presupposes an abuse or extra-limited exercise of this one, as evidenced by Judgment 24/2015, of the 16th of February, which gave it. The court concludes that the repetition in the exercise of the right to assemble does not legitimize its prohibition without the concurrence of other reasons which justify it, and which I have previously indicated. In no case shall it be permissible for a governmental authority to use the argument of repetition denying the utility or necessity of the right of manifestation and thus affecting the essential content of this right of speech. The Spanish Constitution – so pre-empted for you – and the case law of the courts, which so much defend you, emanates from the same legal framework with which the Department of Interior works at the time of managing the exercise of the law of assembly or demonstration. And on this fundamental right and its possible limitations I consider that hardly any of the present will be able to make a more accurate interpretation than the same Constitutional Court. Or is it that you, lords and lords of Ciutadans, now want to question the fundamental rights recognized for the Spanish Constitution and for the pronouncements of the Constitutional Court? Do they want to question them? Do they question the citizens of Catalonia? Or are they questioning them for their ideology? Depending on who's exercising the right, there's right, and depending on what they think, there's no right? Is that what you're asking? - Is that what you're asking? So, unfortunately, out of this country, mostly the public representatives, the Government of the Generality and the Parliament of Catalonia have democratic majority..., and it's not up to you. Because, if it were for you, and listening to your pronouncements, I'm sure that in this country you couldn't manifest everyone, but it would only manifest who you wanted. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Inquiries to the Government on their discussions]] [[300-00247/12]] The next question is about their discussions, the Government's discussions, and it is presented to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.40.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Look, counselor, I want to start this inquiry by acknowledging that you may have reason to be satisfied or content with the so-called ‘dialogue table', because this table is not really a dialogue table, it is not a table of coexistence, but it is actually a table of surrender of the Spanish Government to separatism. Yesterday, in this same chamber, deputies of his party, of Republican Esquerra, spoke of a negotiation of you to you, on equal terms, between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat; in fact, what they wanted to say – and at some point they even explained it in a very obvious way – was that this was a negotiation between Catalonia and Spain, between two sovereign subjects who oppose each other, two perfectly comparable realities. Well, that is literally offensive to the Catalan constitutionalists, to the Catalans we feel Catalan, Spanish and European, and to millions of Spaniards – I would dare to say that for an immense majority of Spaniards – the fact that the Government of Spain – I also tell members of the Socialist Party of Catalonia – accept this perverse logic of a political conflict between Catalonia and Spain; not between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, which would still be a crazy thing, but between Catalonia and Spain. In any case, although I do not like the term conflict, if there is a problem, if there is divergence, if there are differences, if there is dissent and if, of course, there is political tension is between Catalans, not between Catalonia and the rest of Spain and much less between Catalonia and Spain. There's dissension, anyway. That bilaterality which you intend to talk about or intend to establish with the Government of Spain should talk about and apply the one for the internal framework of Catalonia. Bilaterality between the Catalan nationalists, who represent you, with less than half of the votes, and the Catalan constitutionalists, to whom we represent the parties that defend the unity of Spain, the coexistence in the diversity of the Spaniards, who represent just over half of the citizens of Catalonia. That would be the only bilaterality that you could talk about, and, in any case, bilaterality created by your separatist obsession, created by your obsession with separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain. Well, anyway, you already have the picture you wanted. A picture in which what is intended is to project the idea that here there are two practically sovereign subjects who speak, as you say, equally, who speak on equal terms, and that the separatist delegation – which is not the Catalan delegation – is received in the Moncloa with honors; practically with honours as head of state, Mr Torra is received by Mr Sánchez. Mr Sánchez, who four days ago called Mr Torra "the Le Pen of Spanish politics, now, for the art of birlibirloque and because he is interested, because he needs someone to approve the budget, receives Mr Torra practically as a statesman. That is Mr Sánchez's consistency, that is the coherence of this so-called ‘dialogue table, which is in fact a table of imposition, is a table of unilaterality and is a table of blackmail for the rest of the Spanish and, above all, for the Catalan constitutionalists. Look, Mr Bosch, I suppose you will not deny me the evidence and acknowledge that you have burned Spanish constitutions, burned in your Spanish flag acts, disclosed the xenophobic slogan that Spain steals from us, tried to liquidate the Constitution and Statute of autonomy on September 6 and 7, 2017, acts, all of them, of which you do not hide; on the contrary, you are proud. So, I don't think he's coming out here..., and I hope he gives me a convincing explanation, you're quick and you're a man of a certain faction and of a certain ability to speak and I'm sure you can find some explanation, but, will you deny me that Esquerra Republicana, your young people, in acts in which, for example, Members such as Joan Tardà have participated, have burned flags of Spain, have burned constitutions, have despised the King of Spain, have despised the Catalan constitutionalists, have systematically despised the rest of Spain and have said things like that Spain steals from us? I'm saying it because I think we need to talk about things. Ortega said, he told the Argentines in a famous speech of the 1930s, that you have to go to things: « Argentinians, to things. For I say to you, "Separatists, to things. All this I have just said is true, but in spite of that, how is it possible that the Spanish Government will continue to commit itself to legitimizing politicians who have demonstrated their disloyalty and hatred for Spain? How is it possible that Mr. Sánchez is still on these theses and on that line? This question we ask ourselves from Citizens, it is made by many citizens of Catalonia, and I am convinced that, in the background, because you have an outstanding ability of intellect, you also do it; you think: "How is it possible that Sánchez or any other president of the Spanish Government still, after all we have done, after September 6-7, after the One of October, after a unilateral declaration of independence, after having disregarded the rest of Spain systematically and in xenophobic terms only comparable to those of the North League of Padania, still, still, the Government of Spain continues to insist on appeasement with you? It's a thing that I really think has no match in the whole world. That the Government of Spain... [[Some applause.]] That the Government of Spain depends on the votes of people like you, politicians like you, who, in the depths with legitimacy, hate Spain, despise the rest of the Spaniards – I insist, it seems perverse to me, it seems to me contemptible, but you are very free to hate anyone you want –..., and you have shown a contempt, a hatred, a disloyalty towards the rest of Spain that certainly does not make you creditors or deserving of the slightest confidence. But, even so, the Government of Spain remains confident in you. Do you imagine that the United Kingdom Government would rest on the trust of a party like Sinn Féin? , a party that was the political arm of a terrorist gang, a party that is its partner in the European Parliament, Sinn Féin. I believe that no one in the world thinks that Sinn Féin could be a reliable partner of the UK government, neither for conservatives, nor for liberals, nor for laborers. It seems to me to be an absolutely implausible thing. But, well, anyway, you see things. It is that the fundamental question is that Sinn Féin, in the British Parliament, in Westminster, directly does not take possession of the seats, instead of doing as you do, that you insult, despise, vilify Spain systematically and then go there and take possession of your seats in the Congress of Deputies. Let us remember Mr Rufián, who told us four or five years ago that he would be eighteen months in the Congress of Deputies and in the end he will end up thickening the list of the longest-standing deputies in the history of Spain along with Alfonso Guerra and Celia Villalobos, and will continue without recognizing the inconsistency of having said what he said that he would be eighteen months in the Congress of Deputies. They continue to get cut off from being part of Spain while still insulting the rest of the Spaniards. This supposed table of dialogue is a genuine anomaly for many reasons, mainly because the Congress of Deputies is empty of content, the Senate is empty of content, this Parliament is empty of content, all the institutions that provide for our constitutional order, among other things, the meeting of presidents, the sectoral meetings, all those meetings in which problems that concern all Spanish citizens and also all the citizens of Catalonia can be discussed. You despise that, but the worrying thing is not that you have got your picture – because you are in your right to seek to destroy Spain, that is your goal –, what is not normal is that the President of the Government of Spain, Mr Sánchez, put the red carpet on them and receive them with honors in Moncloa. That's what's not normal; that's what makes our constitutional system, with Mr. Sánchez at its head, really go very low. It is not reasonable for you to have these privileges; you should not, of course, be, with your anti-institutional logic, fundamental actors in Spanish politics. Spain needs dialogue – I am convinced –, the Spanish need dialogue and I absolutely agree with that idea, but we need it from loyalty, from commitment, from sincerity and of course from the belief that the project of Spain is worth it, from the belief that the unity of Spain is a value in itself that should be preserved and not attacked; it is a value in itself that ensures freedom, that ensures equality, that ensures solidarity between citizens, and not its model of inequalities, its model of privileges, its model of confrontation... All this is not dialogue, quite the opposite. Therefore, that you also want to patrimonialize dialogue and accuse those who do not agree with your sui generis idea of dialogue, that more than dialogue is imposition and blackmail, because it is at least outrageous. One thing that worries me enormously is that Mr Sánchez, with that dialogue table, fully accepts his anti-political logic and usurps the Catalan constitutionalists and millions of Spaniards into deciding what their country is, what is a fundamental part of their country. It cannot be that here at this table that you have perged with the Socialist Party it turns out that the two possible results are, on the one hand, what the Socialist Party says, which is to recover all those competences that the Constitutional Court said were not constitutional to the previous Statute, that is to say, to skip our democratic order to content its separatist partners, to exchange coexistence for budgets, which seems to me to be a worthy dishonesty of better cause, or the other result that you propose, although it is not very clear what your true objective is, that is to achieve the break with the rest of Spain. You have shown that you renounce to represent all the citizens of Catalonia because you say that you go there to talk about self-determination and amnesty; that is, the Catalan constitutionalists obviously have no hope that you will represent us there. But who represents the Catalan constitutionalists at that blackmail table? Who represents those who feel Catalan, Spanish and European, and who do not consider that the sovereignty of the whole of the Spanish people should be quarteted among all those who claim it with special intensity, as Mr. Pablo Iglesias says? I ask you, Mr Bosch, to answer these questions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.41.0	To make the answer, the words of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Alfred Bosch. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.42.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, why does it offend you that people speak equally? Now you and I are talking the same way about this rostrum. Why is it offensive? Explain it to me. It seems to me that it is the noblest that can be done and that the dialog, the authentic dialog, must go through this, because of the lack of inequality between those who dialogue. Because, if you don't, it's very difficult, if you're starting from an inequality of iniquitous people. On the other hand, you question that the Government of Catalonia represents Catalonia. Do you question whether the Government of Spain represents Spain? Do you question that? Because, through democratic procedures and major parliaments, there is a government. Another thing is that this government doesn't like him, or even that the government of Spain doesn't like him. Now, deny her legitimacy, it seems to me that this is very big – this is very big! I mean, if you've ever been able to make up a majority parliament... yeah, they won the elections, yeah, okay, they got more votes than any other formation, yeah, that's true. But it wasn't easy to make up the majority of Parliament that you represent a majority of the votes in this country. Therefore, listen, governments represent the countries, in Catalonia, in Spain and all democratic countries of the world; that is why democracy exists, to choose legitimate and representative governments. And I can't deny it. I cannot deny that this dialog between governments is a legitimate dialog, between governments that are democraticly represented, because it is denying me the essence of democratic functioning. He also tells me that the dialogue between those who defend the Spanish nation and those who defend a Catalan republic cannot be, that it is disloyal. So, who's the dial? Among those who think the same? So, do you think the dialog has to be a dialog between unionists? , or a dialog between independenceists? Dear, it's that they won't advance in May – they won't advance in May. The problem is that there are millions of people who say, we know... we don't know exactly how many, because we couldn't vote without police disruption, but, listen, the dialogue between those who think it doesn't help to move forward. Nelson Mandela said, "We admire it for me, as for the least," when he said, "You must talk to the rivals, to the opponents, to those who think differently. If you talk to friends and they just talk to people who think the same, you'll never settle a conflict, you'll never move on. Therefore, it is obvious that there must be a dialogue between the equals, because it is as it is to be, and that it must be among those who legitimately represent, therefore, the peoples who are also involved, in some way, in this conflict. And we need to settle the conflict. Why does the negotiating table have to be used? So it seems pretty obvious to me; at least I'm very clear. The negotiating table has to be used to move from the courts to the polls, because we want to live in full democracy. It has to be used to move from words to words and dialog. That's what this table has to do. And, well, you don't agree with what we're going through, do you? , from the farthest and most negated landscape in politics to the most positive landscape, which is to talk and try to negotiate to try to find a way out, so..., well, you will take your options. I have made it clear to me, and the Government of Catalonia has made it very clear, and the forces represented in the coalition of the Government of Catalonia have made it very clear: we want to talk, for a long time we want to talk; sit and talk, let's sit down and talk. And then move, let's move, huh? Because, if not, it will also be very difficult to reach a solution. We need to resolve the political conflict of foundations, and political negotiation is essential, because we find ourselves in front of a political dilemma. Our proposal is very clear – very clear – : the Government of Catalonia, represented in the forces that form it, for the most part parliamentary, above the Moncloa and puts a proposal to the table that says it is about repression and self-determination. Why the repression? Home, it seems obvious to me: precisely because we want to move from bars and prisons and exile, we want to move on, therefore, to this dialog that leads to a democratic solution, eh? We want to go from the courts to the polls. And why self-determination? So, look, maybe you don't share it, maybe you don't share a universal right recognized to all the cards that have been voted for all the countries of the world, huh? , among them, and in a meaningful way, the Charter of United Nations, perhaps you do not share it. We do. And we also think it's the best way to decide things: instead of facing conflict and confrontation, so go to everyone– everyone, everyone–, 100_per_cent of the population, I can decide. It's just as important a question, the future of this country, as it is that I participate in it, and not just part of it. And you say, "Not everyone, not a part. None. And we say: "Tothom, the cent_per_cent. But it is that, moreover, it supports us, according to all the questions and the results, also, from political formations to the various elections, that more than 70_per_cent– depend on the questions, some arrive at 80_per_cent– from the people of Catalonia want it to be votes, wants it to be democratically decided on the future of this country; among them, a significant part of its voters, who are sure to know them. There's a lot of people, most of them crackers, huh? – I don't know why they're smiling, because that's the data, and that's what we know, and that's what it's all about – a majority of the people want the people to decide. It's not hard to hear, it's not hard. You don't want the people to decide, you want things not to move, you don't want to have a dialogue, you don't want people who think different to talk. What you think is that people who think differently, especially people who want a Catalan republic, can't talk. And clap that he vags the prison, and clap that he commits them to exile. Of course, this doesn't seem democratic to me, and it doesn't seem acceptable to me in democracy. I mean, we're not fighting for this, we're fighting for a very different political model. The Spanish government is obliged to answer. We've made a proposal to the table, and it's clear. Maybe the Spanish government doesn't like it. I'm sure you and your group, from Ciutadans, don't like them. But it's our proposal, we think it's reasonable, we think it's civilized, that the percent of people vote to decide their future. We believe that it is not just the best way to solve it, but that, in the capdavall, and based on other examples of civilized countries, we think that it is the only real, solid, democratic way to resolve this conflict. We, of course, will also push bilateral commissions – you didn't mention that. They are different things, but they are also historical debtors who are hanging out with the Spanish government and who are to be completed, and who have been on the table for a long time, with feelings on hold. You, who say so much in favour of respect for the laws, should also bear in mind that all this is pending and all this also needs to be resolved. And here I also need to talk and here I need to negotiate, because it can't be that I'm hanging, because it affects day by day. We want two things: we want to resolve the political conflict, we also want to resolve the day to day of the people, which you did not talk about. After the monotheme we are, but... we want everything, because people deserve everything. People deserve us to resolve this conflict and unblock it and we can move forward and we can decide freely. And the people also want everything that affects their day to day, so it's settled. Say we have to go to things. Lately they're getting a little bit of a puppeteer, huh? "The Catalans do things, don't they? And I suppose this confluence of forces, so it's also denoted with language, isn't it? So yes, we do. Five things? To important things, to solve people's day by day. Because the Spanish Government and the Spanish State have important outstanding debts in terms of infrastructure, investment, education, health..., many questions. And that has to be solved. But we too, to resolve a conflict that has marked the political life of this country in the last few years. And obviously we want a solution. Finally, you have noticed that you know it hard and regret that the fate of Spain depends on conversations and dialogue with independenceists, you know it hard, because we influence the political life of the Spanish State, and you know it hard. So you know what I'm saying? There is a very easy way that this is not the case and that the Government of Spain does not rely on the Catalan independenceists, and it is that the Catalan independenceists no longer need to be independenceists, because we have a Catalan republic and, therefore, we do not have to see 'obligated to participate in the political life of the Spanish State. If this is what you want, let us not influence decisions affecting the Spanish State, welcome to our car, point out to the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much, sir. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, for the reply, has the word MP Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.44.0	Look, Mr Bosch – I will try to go quickly – well, in the face of this latest coup of the Catalan Republic, I tell you that in your case you would have to point me before or we would have to point to the Barataria island that Don Quixote offered Sancho Panza, which does not exist. So the truth is, that of the Catalan Republic... [[Greetings.]] However, I say one thing to you, Mr Bosch: that is your dream, your dream is that the Catalan constitutionalists let you do and undo at your will, let you agree with Mr Sánchez's Government of Spain and, indeed, let them be allowed to do so. Listen, really, if you insist so much on going, go be you, but don't pretend that the others are going with you or throw us out. It's just... [[Greetings.]] From that point of view, really, I think you have a lot of options. The first, which I think would be desirable, is that they accepted the plural reality of Catalonia, the reality in which most Catalans feel Catalan and Spanish, that we do not want to separate us from the rest of Spain, that we have sentimental, historical, economic and all kinds of ties with the rest of Spanish, and that, therefore, their proposal is the only thing that it does is to divide Catalan society and to generate a climate, a state of opinion and a political climate in Catalonia that is certainly irrespirable. But in any case, I tell you several things. No, in fact, there can be no equality between Catalonia and Spain. It's a contradiction in terms. Catalonia is an integral and fundamental part of Spain. Therefore, there can be no dialogue between one side and the whole. The dialogue will have to be between all parties. You cannot steal from the rest of the Spaniards the possibility of deciding what your country is, you cannot steal the right of Madridns, Andalusians, extremists, shipwrecks, to say what must be your country. As they did, it is true, in their agreement with the socialists in the tripartites of the year 2003 and 2010, that now it seems that, from time to time, they seem to repeat in case they do not again go out their bet with the nationalists of Junts per Catalunya and again make a secessionist government, the other option, which is almost worse, is the tripartite with the Party of Socialists of Catalonia. There is one thing that strikes me as impressive and very symptomatic of what you have said, which is that you say that you are in favour of one hundred_per_cent of the people voting. Listen, look, this is not the first time I have the impression that for you the rest of the Spaniards are not people, but that you tell me that you are in favour of the 100_per_cent of the people voting, because they are saying that only the Catalans vote on what the whole of Spain should be, against, on their backs, against the interests of the rest of the Spaniards, seems really offensive to me. For, I insist, "we are all people; also the Madriders, also the Andalusians, also the extremists. And we have to decide what our country should be together, not just taking into account what you say or what you, the separatist lords say. On the other hand, there is another issue that seems to me to be quite significant. You tell me about a right of self-determination recognized by the United Nations. Indeed, Mr Bosch ; but you know, we have told you forty_ thousand times..., I would love for public opinion to hear a calm and calm debate on this issue, because you know better than anyone that that right to self-determination does not attend a territory with the level of self-government that Catalonia has. It only assists those territories that are subjected to colonial oppression, military oppression or where human rights are systematically violated by being from that territory. So please don't lie. What the Charter of the United Nations says and what resolutions 2625 and 1514 of the United Nations General Assembly say has absolutely nothing to do with what you say. Ban Ki-moon, the former UN Secretary General, told them: "Catalonia, logically, is not subject to the right of self-determination. Stop lying, really, even if it's just for inventory's sake, so that the debate is a little more agile. Because, if you start with false premises, the debate is overturned. They are based on the premise that Catalonia has the right to self-determination; it is completely false. They start from the idea that in the rest of Spain they despise Catalans and want to oppress us; totally false, bluntly false. The Catalans have been decisive in each and every moment of the history of Spain, for good, in most cases, and also for evil. So please stop lying, because then there can be a sensible and calm dialogue between loyal ones. [[Greetings.]] You insist on a table supposedly of dialogue, because you know perfectly, unfortunately, that the Socialist Party..., and I feel that the interpellation is almost joint, to the Socialist Party and to you, but it is really, practically you go together, go to unity. What she has done today, for example, Minister Celaá, Minister of Education Celaá, saying that immersion is completely legal. That's his argument – that's his argument–; Mr.Bargalló nods and says: "Yes, indeed, immersion is completely legal, it's completely constitutional. No, excuse me, Mr Bargalló, what the Constitutional Court's ruling on the autonomy statute of 2010 says very clearly is that, without prejudice to the fact that Catalan remains the centre of gravity of education in Catalonia, Spanish can never be removed, can never be excluded as a teaching language, as a vehicle language. And you, your model, what you do is a monolingual model, with Spanish as a foreign language, where you teach only Spanish, but not in Spanish. So please stop lying, that I think it would be the first condition for a sensible dialogue. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the counselor's turn to the final line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.46.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, always return, always return to your founding motion, which is to fight the Catalan language. [[Widow's remorse.]] They always go back to the same. Listen, what language were you speaking right now? What language were you speaking? I was talking castle. I'm talking in Catalan and there's a problem? I was expelled not once, three times from the Congress of Deputies in Madrid to speak Catalan. So you see the difference, you don't have to explain it any more. That's to impose – that's to impose. [[Greetings.]] You're talking about the right of self-determination. I quote it from memory, but it is that I have very fresh memory in this concrete case. United Nations Letter: "All the peoples of the world have the right to self-determination and when you say all, say all, "peoples. [[Greetings.]] Is Catalonia a village or is it not a village? All peoples, all have right to self-determination. But it's more like, "No, it's just... you, uh, make this discussion, that it's true that some experts do it, but many other experts the total fan, the majority; and you say, "No, it's the colonies. It's the colonies that have the right to self-determination. And then something very curious happens that is when you qualify as the colony, for example, the case of Gibraltar votes not one, nor two, but three times, self-determine and decide where you want to continue to belong, which is the United Kingdom, you do not accept. So, what are we staying at? What are we staying at? In the case of colonies or in another case or... it seems to me to apply to all the peoples of the world. It's the most just, it's the most reasonable and it's what the United Nations Charter says. So we believe each other. We believe in the universal system, the United Nations system and the defence system, and we defend the collective rights and, in this concrete case, it seems to us that it is very clear. The problem, sometimes, is that you question, in itself, the dialog. And the dialogue between governments. And it seems to me that this is hardly questionable, especially when there is a conflict at the end of it. Go on, it seems to me to be the best way, the most civic, the most peaceful. You question the dialog, and call this dialog and call a negotiation – as I said – to pass, therefore, from repression to full democracy, and to which the people, the hundred_per_cent of the citizens, can sort. You question that one hundred per cent can sort. And you're telling me I should vote for all of Spain. Listen, I won't tell the Spaniards what to vote for. If the Spaniards decide by democratic means that they want to vote for Catalonia's future, then what do you want me to say? Well, I'm sure it'll be an interesting exercise for them. Now, alert vagina, because you might find it for the same price instead of a reference to Catalonia, so three or four references, because you think I would go out to the Basque Country, which I would go out – I don't know – to Menorca, Navarre and other places. I mean, that would be an interesting experiment. And a little, a little against what is the right of self-determination. « Self-determination, as its name indicates, is that the people involved self-determination, itself. It's not the others who determine it, because that would no longer be the right of self-determination. It would be a strange thing that there is no international treaty, that it would be their supposed right to "alterdetermination," that is to say, that the others decide for you, and it seems to me that this, go, that I remember, is not present at any international treaty or letter. So, I don't know, vagina defending what you want... Because in the end what you're looking for is where you were accusing me of, and I was accusing this government right now, which is to impose. I'm sorry, is voting imposing? That 100 percent of the citizens can vote, is that an imposition? That the hundred_per_cent of the citizens can decide their future – think what they think and can say yes, that no, they can abstain – is that imposing? It seems to me that imposing is not letting go of the vote. Impose is sending fifteen thousand cops to pick up people when these people are voting. That's either an imposition, or it seems to me at least enough. You, Capdavall... possibly the problem is that they don't believe in democratic solutions. Possibly that's the problem you have with hers, isn't it? And possibly another of the problems that I have is that they don't trust, they don't want, they don't believe in the dialog, because it seems that confrontation favors them much more. And, in fact, in this Parliament, so we see one day and another day, and day and day. And perhaps you believe... Well, maybe there is one, a single negotiating table in which you do believe, which is in the negotiating table where you are on one side and on the other side of the Central Electoral Board, with Mr. Betancor, and negotiate the terms of what you present to the Central Electoral Board and what you decide this meeting. Maybe this is the only negotiating table that you trust and believe in. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the educational model]] [[300-00248/12]] Next, we move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the education model, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose the inquiry, you have the word deputy Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.48.0	Thank you, Vice President. Members, Members, Councillor, representatives of the concerta sector, parents, good morning and welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia. Since 2012, the Government of the Generalitat has devoted all its efforts to govern for half of Catalonia, the secessionist half. With the excuse of the separatist process, they have used all the public resources at their disposal to ensure that a majority of Catalans, the non-independenceists, do not feel as their own the Government or the policies carried out during all this time. The summary of the policy of division and confrontation that has been the separatist process has left in Catalonia a divided society and, at the same time, a society where some – curiously the majority – have not guaranteed their rights and freedoms. It was a matter of time before separatism, an ideology enmity of pluralism, sought to standardize the educational system and to shield indoctrination. A few weeks ago, when Councillor Bargalló announced to the audience that the Immaculada Concepó, of the Eixample de Barcelona, had gone from being arranged to public, he also announced that the Christian ideal would be replaced by a confessional ideal. It is possible that you – in fact, I am sure – want to eliminate the Christian ideal of all schools, but we do not believe that you want to replace it with one confessional, because everything you do is the fruit of another religion, of a false religion: that of nationalism. You have taken two draft decrees that represent the breakdown of the consensus contained in the Catalan Education Act on the model of the education system. Other aspects did not form such a consensus, but in particular it retained quite a consensus. This law consecrated the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya as a system formed by public centers and private centers supported with public funds. The LEC, with the support of many – also of Esquerra Republicana – established and protected an educational model based on a triple offer: the public, the private concerted supported with public funds and the purely private. With this bet, in Catalonia, the right of parents to choose freely the educational model in which they wanted to train their children, a freedom that, prior to the LEC, was already being guaranteed, as it is the cornerstone of the educational freedom protected by the Constitution. With the adoption of these decrees, the Government, which is integrated, curiously, by the promoters of that law, breaks a basic and essential stone of the law: the freedom of parents to choose the educational centre. And nothing has changed that could support a modification of these characteristics. Education legislation has not changed – at least for the moment – and, especially, neither the constitutional nor statutory framework that recognizes freedom of choice has changed. The volume of supply and demand for public-funded concerted education has not even changed. So, if nothing has changed, why now these two decrees, Mr Bargalló? What has really changed is the Government's willingness to impose on hundreds of thousands of Catalan families its dogmatic and uniformist vision of education. What has changed is the will of a Government that wants to end educational freedom, as it has done in many other areas as well. To end equity and ultimately also to end the quality of the education system. To this end, Mr. Counsellor, you have launched your offensive with two draft decrees: the draft decree on the programming of educational offer and admission procedure and the draft decree on educational concerts. The first of them, Mr Bargalló, is a direct attack on the concerted school and all this under the pretext of wanting to guarantee social cohesion through schooling. Concerted school is not the cause of inequalities or imbalances in schooling. Quite the opposite. Concerted education is the guarantee of a balanced system. Without them, private schools would proliferate, widening the social gap; they would create a wide space between the public and the private that would only benefit families with more resources. You promoted, a year ago, a pact against school segregation that was based on an erroneous premise and was to consider that segregation was born in school. And it is not the school that generates social differences, but the inequalities that exist in the neighbourhoods and in the territory. The right way for the school to function as a social lift is to put resources where they are most needed and not to redistribute problems. Attacking the concerta without going to the causes of segregation, all we do is make up the problems and create others at the cost of turning the concerta school into a sort of concerta school of the public school. It is true that this Pact against segregation was signed by political parties – not mine, precisely because we didn't believe it – by unions, entities, parents, federations, employers. But the latter, believing in good faith that, one way or another, they were going to solve their financing problems. He cheated on them. Their financing problems will not be solved. And you seem to have put an attractive candy on them to sign that pact, but once signed not only does it not solve their financing problems, but it increases them, condemning dozens and dozens of schools to closure. And that, Mr Bargalló, although you know perfectly well that holding public funds for concerted schooling is the way in which public administrations ensure the schooling of an important part of the demand that does not fit into the public supply system. In other words, without the agreed offer, could the public system meet all the demand? The answer is clearly no. Without educational concerts or limited concerts, public education would be condemned to increase the one thousand and fifteen barracks existing in Catalonia. In fact, Mr Bargalló, would it not be more beneficial for you to focus your efforts on reducing those barracks and not on promoting regulations that will increase them? The draft decree also wants to establish the number of places of the congregate before knowing how many families want to take their children there, and that is a direct attack on the right of choice of the parents' and mothers' educational centre. You are conditioned your choice, with this measure, in addition to trampling the autonomy of the management of the concerted center itself, in a clear demonstration of the interventionism that you like so much. But not satisfied with the first decree, he doubles the bet and draws us a second draft decree: that of educational concerts, with which he intends to modify the regulations in force since 1993. Among its novelties – liberticidas to our understanding – are, fundamentally, three: the first, the obligation of the concerted center to have 60_per_cent of the studentate of the environment where the center is located in order to be able to maintain the concert; the second novelty – liberticiada also – lies in the control, by the department, of the fees that families will have to pay, and the third – the one you like, of which you most presume there – is that of ending the concerts of schools that bet on differentiated education. A decree which, moreover, is an attack on the freedom of enterprise of those who undertake an educational project. You tell us that you want to end differentiated education in Catalonia for several reasons: because it harms the social integration of boys and girls, because it maintains stereotypes, because it is an education with an important religious component and because it is an elitist education. All these are clichés that do not correspond to the truth. Differentiated education is endorsed by the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court. In fact, the Supreme forced the Andalusian Board to pay for educational concerts at schools of differentiated education. There are also studies that confirm that the quality of differentiated education is not of lower quality than that of mixed schools, and it is true that in Spain – and Catalonia is no exception – differentiated education is linked to the religious fact, but it does not necessarily have to be so. In other countries the differentiated is another option that is not linked to the religious fact and, in addition, it is of public offer. It has been implemented in Germany, the United Kingdom, Australia. In fact, in the United States there are more than one thousand and many multiplied during the Obama administration, which is not exactly suspected of being a Christian ultraconservative. Differentiated education is supported by international legislation, which does not consider it a discriminatory education and is thus reflected in UNESCO itself. It is clear, then, that the reasons for adopting this project are neither academic nor social in nature, but are exclusively political in imposing a uniform model that eliminates the right of choice. Draft decrees taken out for public exposure create problems where there were no such problems. Up to now, the provision of public and concerted centres supported by public funds has coexisted peacefully and has ensured freedom in the educational sphere. It's been a long time since the Independenceists had in mind to attack the concerts and the differentiated school, and it's clear that you have already begun. Attacking freedom is the real reason behind this new regulation. And it is not surprising that you carry out this attack against the concerted right after you have used it throughout the separatist process. First they use them and now they abuse them. Therefore, from the Catalan PP we see ourselves in the obligation to question him. And it is true that today we have the Members we have in Parliament, but on this issue we are not alone; we have tens of thousands of families behind us who with their thousands of signatures also show that they are against these decrees. Mr Bargalló, the legislature ends and you have not solved any of the serious problems of education in Catalonia. And he intends, in the discount time, to adopt a regulation that he sure likes very much to the radical left, that they have been supporting them throughout the legislature, but that leaves the parents, the concerta sector, the teachers and not a few deputies of this chamber, beyond those of the Catalan People's Party, very worried that in the Catalan educational system they can live in perfect harmony with the public school and the concerta school. That is why, Mr. Counsellor, withdraw the decrees, let the legislature end and a new government renew the situation. If you don't do it – I repeat what I told you again at the screening session – both the Catalan PP and I am convinced that many families, we will go to the courts to challenge a regulation that flagrantly violates the freedom of parents to choose the education of our children. Allow us, Mr. Counsellor, if you don't mind, to be us and not you who decide what is best for our children. Thank you very much, Mr Councillor; thank you, Mr President, Members, Members. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.49.0	Allow me to remind people who accompany us from the public that they are not allowed to applaud or, in some way, to show opinions about interventions. Then you have the word to answer the question of the education counselor, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.50.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs and MPs... First, Mr. MP, a thank-you; a thank-you to allow you to talk about these issues here. I, then, a recon. You were against the National Pact for Education, you are against the Covenant against Segregation; it is logical that you are against the regulation of equity. It's absolutely logical. I totally get it. Who is in favor of segregation is against the regulation of equity. I totally get it. So I recognize their honesty. When you govern – in the case of Andalusia – you make a decree of admission of students – a reason for the teacher's vacancy – in which you expose what you defend: the Administration does not plan – the Administration does not plan – the public centres have territories, the concerted centres do not have territories. So I recognize their honesty. What I don't recognize is some of the things he said that they're not, some things that he said that they're not. First, as far as differentiated education is concerned, ask the press officer of your party to make statements that Cardinal Omella made this morning to Josep Cuní's program, that he is passing it – that he is passing it – and he will see that it turns out that you are more papists than the pope, or, in any case, more papists than the president of the episcopal conference. Because, of course, the world is changing, not you, but the world is changing. And he's also changing... in his total conception. Miri, first..., I also appreciate your political speech, because you have made a speech: unionists, separatists, radical left. Therefore, it is to place its defence in a very concrete framework of a very concrete political ideology. I appreciate it, too. It's clear, too. It's very clear, too. It's also very clear. And, in any case, more honest, of course, than others who signed the Covenant against Segregation with the hope that it is not complicated. This is part of the problem – this part of the problem –: who signed the Covenant against Segregation with the hope that it is not complete. Look – look – there are no absolute rights or unlimited rights; there is a combination of rights. Is there a right to the center election? Yeah. Do decrees tempt them? No, no, Keeping it as it is now – keeping it as it is now. I mean, on a preferential right. Now the families have a preferential right in the center election, they do. Not all families, neither the public nor the concertee, get a place in what they have chosen in the first place. Neither to the public nor to the concert. What will happen to the application of the decrees? The same; they will have a preferential right and no one will ensure that the first place is guaranteed. With paws. What do the two decrees do? Apply the LEC in aspects that had not been applied – in aspects that had not been applied. Apply the LEC from Article 44, which makes it very clear that the Education Department is the one that is programming the job offer, that is its obligation to schedule the job offer with public funds, that is its obligation. And it is from the programming carried out, from what the National Education Pact says, from the Segregation Pact and from the LEC that the right to elect centres is understood. But it is also very clear that the centre, neither public nor concerted, has a right to choose a student. And that's what the decrees are about. There is no family choice right, there is no student choice right, there is no social class choice right, there is no gene choice right, there is no origin choice right, there is no language choice right, because the family choice right is not the centre choice right. These decrees – these decrees –... Ah, and another thing, also, clear: freedom of enterprise. Miri, no, we're talking about education. And we're talking public education. We're talking about education and we're talking about education supported with public funds. You're talking to me about corporate freedom. We understand each other perfectly. You defend one thing and I defend education. You defend the business and I defend education. The right to freedom of enterprise, in public education, is a bad argument – it is a bad argument. The right to freedom of enterprise, huh? - Business, I said, huh? , business; no ideal, no, business, I said – it's a bad argument. For what you do to the ideal, you have told me that, in the presentation of the step to public title of a college until the concerted moment pertaining to a religious congregation in Barcelona, said that the college, which had until the moment an idea because it belonged to a congregation, no longer had an idea because it belonged to the Department of Education. It's the way it is – it's the way it is. But in agreement with the religious congregation, in agreement with the faculty of the center and in agreement with the families. That's who you are. I, escort, don't go against idearis – don't go against idearis. That's very easy to say. The decrees – the decrees – have worked – have worked. The admissions decree has held twenty-four meetings, starting with the Pact against Segregation and Subcommittees of the Pact, in which representatives of employers and representatives of parents and seas participated. And the concert decree has had seven business meetings with employers. And, of course, I said, I'm not totalitarian; not all employers think the same, not all employers have acted the same way; not all centres, depending on each employer, have acted the same way. One of the things, too, that the decree of concerts ends is a practice that until now has been completed that explains part–part– of the situation. The renewal of concerts is ugly from employers, not from owners. And that would seem logical. And this ends against the freedom of each centre to decide and the subtitling of each centre to its respective employer. And here it was part of the problem. Once again, the two decrees are in conformity with the current legislation, the two decrees apply it, the two decrees assume the duty of the Education Department to carry out the educational programming of all publicly supported centres, the two decrees equalize all publicly supported centres, the two decrees guarantee the right to the centre election but prevent the centre from having the right to choose a student, all of them: to the public that can do it and to the concert that can do it. But the two decrees want to fight against what concerns all educational administrations in the country except Andalusia, which is school segregation. They are decrees of social and educational purpose, they are decrees of order, they are decrees worked, they are decrees that comply with the regulations. And I will remind you of one thing, this very week the Spanish ministry has said – and the minister has said it – that its regulations will follow the steps of our proposals – it has said this – because there is a way to manage public money that is fair and there is a way to pretend to subvert public money that is business. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then the Member has the new word for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.52.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselor, I really want to thank you for your sincerity in the answer to my question, because, if the parents and representatives of the concertee came to the gallery of concerned guests, they will come out much more after listening to you, because in the end you, summarizing, have come to say that this concertee is lentils: either you accept the idea and programming imposed by the department or you lose the concert. In fact, that is a totalitarian argument. I haven't spoken here on behalf of employers, I don't even speak on behalf of any employers. And Mr.Omella is not the leader of my party; perhaps he was of his own, but of my sure – that he was not. And totalitarian, you know what it is? In the end, to pretend to do some sort of blackmail to the concert with public funds in the sense that either education is taught like I say that the concert has to be given or lost. And that is indeed totalitarian and blackmailist, allow me the expression, that is totalitarian and blackmailist, because this is precisely what is regulating with the regulations of those decrees. And, listen, that is that this concern is not something that arises from my political group, it is that it arises even from the deputies of the partner party of your government. Have you spoken to them? Did you hear the quotes from the education spokesperson for Junts per Catalunya, Mr. Quinquillà? If he was almost more critical than me. That it is not an invention of the People's Party, Mr Bargalló, that the 150,000 signatures of people, parents who take their children to the concertee is not an invention or a fantasy; it is that they are concerned. But they are concerned with reason, because the decrees say what they say, and you are seen very clearly their intentions, they are seen very clearly. From the beginning, on a dogmatic and sectarian issue, want to load the differentiated. And I've already told you that it doesn't have to be linked to the religious fact. You're taking Mr. Omella out of me! He's not the boss of my party. In the differentiated one there may be parents who want to take them to a differentiated school without any religious connotation, as in other countries. Don't make me an excuse for religious connotation. That does not hang, Mr Bargalló, that we are in the twenty-first century. Don't hang up! You want to load the differentiated because it is one more way to control education in Catalonia and control it from the Department of Education. That's his real intention. And I insist, the 150,000 signatures collected by parents are not an invention; they are concerned, the sector is concerned, teachers are concerned, because they do not see feasibility in the school agreed with the model you want to impose. What is an attack on freedom of enterprise, and also on the right of parents to choose the education of their children, and why not? , to freedom of enterprise. It is possible to provide a public service through the private offer, why not? And you have that problem, by your left-hand component, obviously. But I don't. And, by the way, I am convinced that many Members and Councillors of your Government think the same as I do. It is that I believe that here, on this issue, you are very alone, and only the radical left accompanies you. But, I insist, this goes beyond the Members of the People's Party, which today we have four, but it goes beyond what the Catalan People's Party represents. It is that there are many Members of this House who think exactly as I do. That is why, Mr Bargalló, please, I ask you, I do not beg you, but I ask you to consider it, to let the legislature end with normality and that it be a new government that takes care of this. Because those ladies and gentlemen up there are very worried, and I tell them they have reason to be. Because you want to decide for them a right that belongs to them, to us, to the parents, not to you. Let me, let the rest of the parents decide what we want for our children. You don't have to decide either the department or bureaucrats of the Department of Education, it's the parents who decide what's best for our children, and not the department of education. Therefore, I also thank you for the sincerity with which you responded, because, I insist, if there was reason to be concerned at the beginning of the inquiry, I end up the same more concerned if it can, because it gives me the impression that it not only persists in error, but that you are convinced that you want to carry out this operation, which is a real attack on the right of parents to choose the education of their children. But I already tell you that we will go to court in defense of what we believe is our right, which is the right to choose, us and not you, which is best for our children. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, the counselor gets the word back to the final replica.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.54.0	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Deputy, well, if you want to persist in lying, then lying, we can't do it anymore. Miri – Miri – first, the theme of differentiated... Catalonia's Education Law makes it very clear: in Catalonia, education is a key factor in co-education and mixed schooling. It's here. I said the LEC – I said the LEC. Let's get this thing out of the way. It has nothing to do with ideas– it has nothing to do with ideas. You're very easy to fool when you see ideas: you have nothing to see with ideas – you have nothing to see with ideas – and you know it, and you know it perfectly. Third. Concerted school doesn't have to worry – it doesn't have to worry. Hey, if there's any concerted or public center that wants to sort out families, the public and the concert, it needs to worry, because they don't have to do it with public money. But most of the public school, most of the concerted school, doesn't have a problem. Is there a problem that plans the educational offer for territories? What's the part of the meeting? What do you participate in the educational community? What do the headlines have to do with it? Is there a problem in completing the LEC and planning for territories? Is there a problem in jointly taking on the fight against segregation? Miri, I'll give you an example. As segregation is a problem for everyone and equity is a guarantee of the future for everyone, and it's for the concerted school, and they're from an elite of the concertee who doesn't care about the future of the whole concertee, it's an elite of the concertee who doesn't care about the future of the whole concertee. It is the equity of the guarantee of the future of the concerted school; it is only equity, not segregation. And it's equity the future of public school, only equity, not segregation. So, enough lies, enough to play with false information: enough. And we take over all this fight, which is ours. I give you an example: how reality is what it is and what it needs passes through here, and it doesn't go by to store us, and it doesn't go by to lock us up, and it doesn't go by to give forgotten reasons, I can give you an example: Kill. Thanks to the Mayor of Mataró, thanks to the public schools of Mataró, thanks to the concerted schools of Mataró, this course, in the admission of students to Mataró will already begin to apply criteria that contain the concerts, by agreement of all, of the concerted school, of the public, of the Assembly and of the Department of Education, because we have seen all, and the concerted also has seen it, that joint planning is the best fight against segregation and the best guarantee of the future of everyone. I have seen emails sent from concert schools informing about concerts expressing a correct opinion to families. And I've seen e-mails that make families falsified. I've seen it. Because there were families who bounced my email and said, "Look what they're saying. I read the concert, I read the decree, and the decree doesn't say that. And look what they're telling me. But here it's not a fight of falsehoods or lies, it's a fight to apply law and consent. Seven meetings have been held with the employer for the concert decree, and twenty-four with all the representatives for the admissions decree – that we are still working and that we are in the period of affiliations. But, I insist, we will not make a decree like that of Andalusia; we will make a decree like that of the Basque Country, and we will do as the Government of Madrid wants to do, and as all the governments of Europe are concerned about equity, equity in everything, and in the treaty. And, of course, read on the economic memory that accompanies the concert decree – read on the economic memory that accompanies the concert decree – and know that if in the assumptions of encany there is nothing to it because they do not apply until the year you see, and that already have the assumptions, they are from encany, they are not the ones of the year you see. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into territorial cohesion]] [[302-00194/12]] We move on to the point of dissension of the order of the day, which is the Movement following the question to the Government on territorial cohesion, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the parable the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.56.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, Members and Members, in the previous plenary we asked the Government about territorial cohesion. We did so to put on the table the situation of good part of the regions of Catalonia that is found, as we say, in a complicated situation. Some of them lost their population, and we called them: the Lands of Ebro, Ponent, Central Catalonia, Camp Tarragona or the Valley of Aran. But also others who won the population in a disorderly way, and that their public services are overwhelmed, and put them as the Baix Penedès example. In any case, in our view, it is a forceful action on the part of the Government. That the government is looking at the country's conjunction and that this look is concrete in concrete, decisive actions that cannot be equal, because the country's reality is not the same. We believe that the objective of territorial cohesion cannot be achieved if the Government does not put in place the instruments because those territories with major difficulties have fair access to services and equipment and, therefore, guarantees the equality of public services, equipment and infrastructure. And we told them that, in our view, the Project of Presumptions submitted to us by 2020 does not guarantee it. In fact, following the example of the different comarques, he gave them many numbers that the retro assumption with decreases compared to 2010, but in some areas with great needs also compared to 2017. And, in this sense, the motion that we are bringing you back to approval a follow-up of measures that should allow you to reverse this situation. Some of these measures are quantified and others are not. With regard to the former, those with a concrete presuppositional endowment. They are measures that want to affect those territories that are most punished for the loss of population and that have agriculture on the basis of their economy. And so, we propose to create an extraordinary funding fund of 30_million euros through the Catalan Institute of Finance and the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, in order to facilitate credit to farmers and farmers affected by the price crisis and to guarantee their viability. The first request to give opportunities to people in the place where they live is that they can continue with their work. In this case, with the agriculture or the grocery. If the aid-facilitating sector is not enabled, it will hardly be attractive to stay in rural Catalonia. And we're not just talking about the current generation, we're just talking about the young people, the ones who have to make the generational replenishment. We also proposed to them to recover the 2010 pressupost to ensure the coverage of ICTs within the territory. That the interior of Catalonia is competitive technologically speaking can be decided to attract investments, to generate jobs, in short, to create opportunities. In the same vein, we propose to define and present, within the terms of the six-month period following the approval of the Generalitat's assumption for 2020, a specific investment schedule for businesses that, due to their economic and social situation, require special treatment in order to compensate for the detail of the public investment that has taken place since 2010. And we also think it's important to recover the presupposition and the public services lost during the years of retailing, especially the sanitary ones, as a key element in fixing the population to the territory. Encourage professionals working in rural areas with more difficult coverage. Therefore, to put resources in those areas most in need of public impulses, public services. But not all measures mean immediate economic resources, it is necessary to take them in order to put order, to direct initiatives so as to give coherence to public action, and even, in some cases, to save us money so that we have a better management by making it coordinated. In this way we propose to them to harmonize all the instruments and programmes approved for the Parliament of Catalonia and for the Government of the Generality. We have talked a lot about territorial cohesion in this Parliament and therefore we need to straighten out the initiatives that have been approved in this sense; to approve in the framework of this harmonisation, in the terms of the six-month period, a plan to establish a strategy for the democratic front that is specifically directed to the reactivation compatriots, and to undertake a cross-cutting work of the different councils that should address governance, rights and opportunities, economic development and environmental sustainability. In short, we want a Catalonia that does not go to different speeds depending on the region where it is visqui. We want a Catalonia that is competitive and attractive for the country. That the Catalans and Catalans have the same opportunities, viscose on viscose, and that's why they want politics, and that's why, above all, they want economic resources. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the first word the deputy Marc Parés, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.58.0	Thank you, Vice President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. First place to thank..., thank the young man for saying no? We haven't talked much, in the last few months, in this Chamber, about territorial inequalities, cohesion, equity, and therefore, it's another young man who comes up on this issue, and surely when there are numbers coming up, it's because we haven't just solved the issue. And so we also appreciate that, like the Ciutadans Group this late presents another motion in the same line and that our group, in the last Ple, we presented one. Also thank the honourable Member's willingness to accept some of our papers, and well, say we will collect most of the points. First of all, you're talking about harmonising the different instruments, and that's what we agree with, isn't it? , and I believe – I also said in my later intervention on this subject in the later Ple – that what shows this multitude of instruments of which we are endowed is that the different groups need to put the theme on the table, but there is also a government that has not just gone to one at the time to deal with these problems, right? We have one adviser who talks to us about the country living and the country of opportunity, and another who talks to us about an interdepartmental committee on agriculture, and in the end, between one another, we have not just seen results. We also share with the honourable Member the fact that surely not, surely, these assumptions do not resolve the problem and are insufficient and, therefore, we also share this issue with some frustration, because we, as we have negotiated these assumptions, have wanted that, in fact, this was one of the priorities of the premise and has not been so, with which it is shown that, despite the rhetoric, it has not just been one of the priorities of this government. In the second place, you're talking about establishing a plan with a strategy for the democratic front, which we share. Here they have accepted a slogan from the government groups, which we will support at this point, but we have not just shared the slogan, because the nomenclature of these territories is eliminated, and we believe that it is important to say, it is important to say that those territories that are losing people are the lands of the Jews, they are the lands of Lleida, it is the High Pyrenees and the Aran, they are some communities of the Camp de Tarragona and, therefore, we believe it is important to name these territories. In point 3 we have accepted the idea of incorporating the concept of "territorial equity", which for us is key, because in the end we believe that the way to approach territorial cohesion is to guarantee this equity, that is to say, that you see where you see Catalonia have access to the same levels of income and the same levels of public services. We regret that we did not accept a message that we did in this sense, in which, therefore... you spoke, did you not? , to recover assumptions and public services lost during the years of retailing, with which we are fully in agreement, but especially health services, in which we are in agreement, but we are not just in agreement. We also proposed talking about educational services, talking about optical fiber, didn't we? As we did in our past Ple's motion, since we believe that in order to advance towards territorial equality, towards equity, what it is to do from different fronts; obviously, the front of salvation, but also that of education, also that of connectivity, both digital and with infrastructures. In any case, therefore, even if we have not accepted this question, we will vote equally in favour of this point. Also in point 7 is ugly reference, isn't it? , to this question of territorial equity in services, through a specific investment calendar for the areas I need most. And with that, so, we also agree. We have presented a specific point to a question that Mrs Ibarra also mentioned, which is the question of the importance of the young population and, therefore, to fill in the need for a specific focus for the young population in the rural world. To say also another point that is not accepted, that has to be seen... That is to say, you speak only... when you speak of policies to the agricultural sector, you have guided them in a proposal, that is this proposal that you make, right? , of the 30_million for a funding fund. We have asked them as a supplementary proposal the need to boost a Catalan law of the food chain, because we believe that it is key to addressing the question of the prices of the sector and the agricultural income; to develop a range of unfair measures; to enforce the prohibition of the sale to the losers, or to fix a maximum topall in the position of the domains of the market. That's what we proposed. And finally, tell them that we will abstain from points 5 and 6, because we understand that they are points of the presuppositional debate that should not be dealt with in any young man, and that they are points, some of them, that also to the young man that we are debating this late from Ciutadans, therefore, they are incorporated and that they have also been incorporated in our motion of the late Ple. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Congressman Marc Sanglas, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.60.0	Good morning. Thank you, Vice President. Counselor... In any case, I would like to begin this intervention with Mrs Rosa Ibarra's willingness to accept some of the papers we have presented, which, in any case, the willingness of the papers we have submitted has been somewhat precise, to enrich the text, and therefore, we would like to thank her for her predisposition, even though there are some of the papers, which we will comment on further, that they have not been accepted and that we believe that they should have been accepted. And one of the first points that we have presented, and that goes, let's say, in the line of account of what Mr. Parés gave a moment ago..., we have presented a point, precisely, because we believe that we did not want to make a nominating debate about which questions or which were the territories affected, but that we should define some objective elements that, in any case, are detailed and that are clear in the same motion, that are those territories with a greater degree of depopulation, problems, higher taxes of duration and, therefore, a follow-up of questions and objective data that we believe are clear. We also say it because everything is soft and, in any case, at these times there may be some unfavorable territories, but in a while, depending on, let's say, some other elements, they may be others. Therefore, we believe it is important not to make this appointed debate. We do not want to put the emphasis on the most disadvantaged territories, but, in any case, we have worked. And we will also give support to most of the proposals made by this young man. Basically, because the government is already doing it, it is working on it, through the project "Living country, through the Department of Agriculture is also working there and, therefore, from this point of view, those proposals, those elements that they have as their will to reactivate economically parts of the territory or, let us say so, the economy of some territorial areas for us is important and, therefore, from this point of view we will give support. We want to support the creation of a plan to establish the strategy for the demographic challenge, recover the presupposition and public services lost during retailing, especially in the health field. Here we have made them a message that they have accepted, in the sense that we must see, we must concretely make out in which places it is produced not in any way, but in any case, we must enter it. Define and present, from the approval of assumptions, a specific investment calendar for the comarques that require a special treatment. We believe that surely, like all assumptions, they are short. In any case, we would certainly like to contribute much more resources to the investments and the needs of the territory, but we have done..., we believe that it is a premise, let's say, from this point of view, valid, it is a premise that grows, that gives coverage to some of the needs. Not everyone knows – you know, Mrs. Ibarra – can't give coverage. So much good..., and certainly without the fiscal deficit we're experiencing with Madrid, it would still be easier than we could allocate some resources. No, and some of the investments that Madrid has to make, such as in Rodalies, such as, for example, some of the most affected regions have access problems, clearly, from this point of view. Therefore, it is not only a matter of responsibility of the State... – I say this because it will surely answer us –; it is not a matter of responsibility of the Generality, there are also responsibilities of the State to promote the economic development of some of these regions. And, therefore, from this point of view we believe that it is not possible to demand... In any case, we will say no, and we will vote against two points in concrete terms: one that relates to ICTs. You're calling, demanding, that you're back to getting the 2010 pressupost. I would say one thing: it is not with the mantra of 2010; the situation from 2010 to 2020 changes. And fortunately, in this area, for example, there has been a rather important evolution. That is to say, the assumption of the year 2010 in reference to ICTs on the part of the Government was very high. There were some projects, for example, the « Catalunya connects, which had the will to extend all communications throughout the country and which, therefore, let us say to ourselves, all citizens, businesses, administrations, in favour. We believe that in these moments, and for the data we have, the month of October, for example, came to contest a new contest to extend the optical fiber, and we believe that this is the objective: to extend the optical fiber to the whole country. At this point, we'll be about to give coverage to more than 85 percent of the population after this last reversal. So we think we should go here. And, finally, for what you were aiming at at the 30_millions, look, I've asked you for a little coherence, Mrs. Ibarra. I know, and I'm telling you, but who's responsible for not accepting this stuff isn't here, huh? He is one of his deputies who has accepted or agreed to an issue with Ciutadans in another country and has been unable to accept our issue, when they say the same, when we have offered them a deal that he could say the same: the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Economy are working credit lines for agricultural farms and branches. And you didn't... what are you playing here? Because the same text that you have agreed on for this late move is the same one that we proposed to deal with in this agreement here. And you didn't want to. Therefore, obviously, if you play politics in working accounts for the interests of the sector, we will not support it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it's the turn of Deputy Jordi Munell, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.62.0	Thank you, Vice President. Honourable Counselor, Members and Members, Lords and Lords who accompany us, good morning. And in this case, my fellow Member of Parliament Sanglas has already explained a little the position we share, so the groups we support the government in relation to this young man. And I also add, therefore, to thank Mrs. Ibarra for her willingness to come to terms with most of the points, which we have been able to agree, add and take, and, therefore, be able to add with this young man. In fact, we are all sensitive to the need for our country to be as balanced as possible; we are all sensitive, therefore, to the shortcomings that are territorial, and therefore we all want the maximum, the best for all the territories of Catalonia, right? And, therefore, for the government, this is also one of its priorities. As in the morning also the MP of the PSC, therefore, told me that I always demand the necessary investments in the premise also of the Government of the State, allow me to today also make a little reference; because when the MP Ibarra the other day we said..., says: "We have areas in our country that suffer ill-advisedly presuppositionary and have areas on which so much investment falls, and I thought I was talking about Catalonia, Catalonia respects the Spanish monarchy, right? So no, he was talking about the Catalan territory. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, of course, the simile's coming together a lot, isn't it? Because we are an area with a presuppositional and fiscal maltreatment and we are an area in which the state's investments have gone back several years. And then, then, when we want to balance territory with some infrastructure or skills that don't depend strictly on the Generality, but on the central government, that's very difficult, isn't it? And we could talk, then, about the nationals, the National 260, crossing the Pyrenees, or we could talk about the National II, or we could talk about the R3 or we could talk about the R14, the R2, etcetera, and the thousands..., huh? And they count for thousands – which is said very easy, but when the trigues accounts much to count: u, two, three, four, five..., until you reach 3,000 and get millions that the State – the Central State, yes – has managed, for example, investments in Rodalies. Which..., this would make it possible to have a territory, obviously, therefore, more connected and, therefore, a more rebalanced territory and, therefore, a territory where depopulation would certainly not have affected so much. So that's what you have to say, huh? Beyond the points of the young lady in which we agree. It is also necessary to point out all the more that it has to do with us; now he had talked about having us carry investments, investments because he collects the State 85_percent of the taxes, but then he does not make them in the form of an investment, depending on our people, our GDP or even all of the pact that was established by law in the State of 2010, with which it was carried out every year 1,400 and millions of additional third provision. Or, for example, he was carrying out the financing of children's homes, he was carrying out the financing of the Dependency Law, he was carrying out the financing of the Squadron Mosses, now he wants to carry the VAT, etc. Actually, that's what we're going through; this territorial imbalance the path for that, because if we have these resources, obviously, the government could have done a lot and a lot more to rebalance our country. In fact, as I said, this looks like a model, in fact, of feudal realism, doesn't it? , in which there is the king– the State–, who collected the tributes, then does not return them, stays. But it's that, more and more, now... we found out yesterday that, more and more, the real me was charging for them, huh? He'd get money from dealers or other states, wouldn't he? And, therefore, this is a heaviness that we suffer in our country. And this hardship, therefore, the patimo after the people and patimo the comarques and patimo the territories, as you do to the youth, the furthest away from the metropolitan areas, but also, in general, all the citizens of this country, right? In fact, a few weeks ago we were going to watch – I don't know if you, someone..., there was some of your representative also – to an interesting presentation of a study by the Catalan Trade and Industry Council, which was the economic impact of the investment deficit in infrastructure in Catalonia, and shifled in more than 8,000_millions that the State had stopped investing in infrastructure, as we say, in roads, railways, roads. And, therefore, this is to the detriment of this necessary and territorial balance that is claimed with the SGP motion, which we add up to, but I also think it is worth saying in high view, so good part of this territoriality deficiency that we suffer, right? And it sees precisely this sum of years in which investments have been made, many of them in infrastructure and many of them in a tool that will vertebrate the territory as is the railway of Rodalies. Therefore, thank you for presenting the motion. Thanks also for allowing us to make it clear that a good part of the weakness we suffer is for this unjust state situation. And, therefore, we would vote that yes to all the points that Mr. Sanglas has said and that not to 5 and 6. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, now has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Javier Rivas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.64.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, look, I'm from town, I always say, and I carry it with honor, I don't hide. I am, I want to remain in town; for me it is a pride. And whenever matters such as the one we are dealing with come to Parliament today, it is a joy for me, because one aspires to have a certain usefulness in this chamber, right? Sometimes life forces you or allows you new homes, but I'm the one who thinks about that Tibetan proverb that says no matter where you go because you'll always find the same thing, which is what you've got inside, right? And that's what we're wearing, isn't it? At the beginning of this legislature, from the Citizens' Group, we made a similar, very extensive motion to defend the rural world, to vertebrate the territory, the problem of inequalities and the derivative that causes depopulation, right? Today the PSC brings us here this motion – welcome –, in the past Plenary brought it by the companions of the commons – welcome. Of course, we will vote in favour. We don't see any inconvenience. Yeah, it's really a little tidbit day, it's repetitive, but it'll be for something. It will be because, as long as the Government does not do its duties, until we meet our objective, for we will have to insist. And I already think it goes a little bit even in language, don't you? I see that when the people of the city speak of the rural world, when they go to a people, they say to you: "It is here that bread is bread, and tomato is tomato, and lettuce is lettuce, isn't it? Looks like a redundancy is needed, doesn't it? In words, even, in saying it. That is why I find this motion appropriate and we will support it. I think we all agree that we have a problem of territorial vertebration, inequality and injustice, really, don't we? But I believe that things are not measured, not valued, by the words we use, or by the tinlates we set up or entities to solve them, but are assessed by their results. And the results, right now, of government action I think are desolating. On more than one occasion, from this same Faristol, I have tried to add variables to the problem of the rural world. The first, to maintain our main historical activity, which was the agricultural world, wasn't it? , adapting the, helping the, modernizing the, putting the in the twenty-first century. Agriculture, the agricultural world, has to be the point of support for our rural world. Archimedes said, "Give me a point of support and I will move the world, and the point of support I believe that this must be the case here. But we can't stay there. I believe that there is a second point on which we have insisted many times, that it is to diversify, that in a twenty-first century with economies that are no longer of scale, but are economies of knowledge, the relocation of production can be possible and the rural world can have a diversification that so far has not had, which has been based on a monoculture, right? From the second point, zero; nothing to recognize the government. Point one, sorry. From the second point, from traditional agriculture, well, by their works you will know them: budget, 1.2_per_cent; repeat: 1.2_per_cent. That is the figure of their belief in the rural world. There's no more. It's objective, it's indisputable, isn't it? Another separate chapter would be how you manage that 1,2_per_cent. I'll give you four examples, because I have one more minute left, won't I? With the fruity dolça we have a problem, that we have a surplus of production of about eighty_ thousand_tonnes; unilaterally, the government makes a plan of uprooting, and have not yet charged those that have uprooted. Summer fires in Lleida and Tarragona, create aids that have a closure that is impossible to comply with, by insurance policies, has no viability. We are the only autonomous community that was not in time to collect the Beast of the CAP. We have renounced the aid of the last floods... well, nothing good can I say to you, unfortunately, eh? Believe me, I'm sorry. In short, the sector has problems, they are structural problems. You'll put yourself behind a sign with a grieving face, the cilium won't squeeze it, but you will compete in blows to the chest and in hiring complainers, won't you? Rubalcaba said that in this country we buried very well, and you are burying the rural world. The soundtrack of all this last time of his disputes between Esquerra and Junts per Cat is just noise, it's absolutely nothing else. I would tell them that their soundtrack is that song by Ismael Serrano: "If the noise were quiet, you would hear the rain fall, clean the city of spectra and open the windows; maybe we could talk and blow in the wounds, maybe they would understand that we are not the Yogi Bear in Yellowstone Park, but we are citizens of full right who want their land and who do not want to leave it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.66.0	Good morning, all of you. Now we start a lot of the motions said: "We have talked a lot about this subject. We've talked a lot about this, too. We, in general terms, will support the SGP Group's motion and make some reflections, some repeated, as we have talked a lot about this subject. First of all, we try to locate those questions that we don't just share. A question that has already been discussed, about point 3, in which the message... Point 3, excuse me, no; the point where the deputy, for example, from Esquerra Republicana, defended the need to remove the names and make visible those places that the most people lose with the motion or..., said that it was an objective debate based on data. But it is the same Idescat that places all the places in the original movement, not just the places and municipalities that lose the most people today in Catalonia, but that, in their projections, the same Idescat, 2033, suggests that these same places – the High Land, the Garrigues, some who were not there, the Pallars Sobirá, the Berguedà, the Priorat, the High Ribagorça and the Lands of the Ebra – will be the largest people who will lose and also those who have a greater aging. Therefore, there is no such thing, because the objectivity is there and the work of the Idescat is there. And I think it is important, especially for the aspirations of the territory, to see'sreflexed in this type of motion. Second, also about a structural issue that we have often talked about. We like the puzzle about the young question. We've been pleased that there's a gender perspective. Today, the agrarian sector has only 20_percent of the women's employment – which is not dedicated – in the agrarian sector. We know it's important, but, well, there are other motions that we haven't talked about. And I end up with a structural reference to the model. We understand that the whole set of crises facing the rural sector – depopulation, crisis of prices, etc. – has to do with a context, with a system and with an analysis that, for many pal·liatii that we are posing, like this young man, we will not resolve if we do not make a structural change. I'm done. Also – I can't help it – Mr.Marc Parés said that of all those points referring to the assumption it wasn't up to him to talk about it in a young man. I have had to recover his motion for the month of..., of the last Ple, on territorial inequalities, which mainly dealt with presuppositional issues. It would be better if I said that they can't give support to these points because they give support to the Junts Government's premise for Catalonia and the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is his return now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mr Daniel Serrano. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.68.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. From the seat. We very much appreciate this motion. We believe that there are many types of inequality in Catalonia, but also obviously from the point of view of territorial cohesion. This is a recurring issue on which all political groups normally agree. But then, as we say in Catalan, we have to put a thread to the agula and move it and bring it to the budgets with real and effective measures aimed precisely at contributing to this territorial cohesion. And we will obviously support the motion, but we are very skeptical; we are very skeptical because then the ball is on the roof of the Government and we see, we believe that the political priorities of the Government are other, legitimate from his point of view, but others. We do not see that the budgets, which in the end is the fundamental tool through which, therefore, it helps to correct the territorial inequalities, conceive, propose a political objective really to end the territorial inequality in Catalonia. And, therefore, what there is is patching, showing that things are done, as Mariano Rajoy would say, but not really a goal in budgets that will be aimed at correcting in a decade the territorial inequalities that exist in Catalonia. Therefore, we will support the motion, but, I insist, very sceptical, because we believe that, with the current budgets, with which they intend to approve and with which they can be approved in the future, the political priorities being the same, the territorial inequalities in Catalonia will continue to exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Ibarra has a new turn. When he wants to. [[Pause.]] One moment, Congresswoman, I don't think the microphone works. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's two minutes, but I'm stopping it, because it wasn't working, so let's try it now. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.70.0	Yeah, now I do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.71.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.72.0	Well, I told them I'd thank them for all the interventions. To especially thank the groups that have wanted to negotiate ideas..., concretely the group of the commons, to thank them above all the theme that makes reference to the young people – as I said, for us, it is very important that the young people are vague and able to stay in the countryside in order to develop their project of life – ; to the Lords Bloods and Munell, of the groups that give recollection to the Government... First, to the Lord Bloods, obviously we could agree on those themes that were not of economic content, that were not of concretion. When we got to the realization, you didn't want to agree. And, in any case, tell them that we do not play politics against the sector; what we do is precisely politics to help the sector. As for Mr. Munell, man, he's told us about realms, he's told us about delmes... Missals were missing! In any case, Mr. Munell, as much as you continue to frustrate the responsibilities, as much as you continue to generate this mantra that is the fault of the State, that the fault is the fiscal deficit, and that you make this angry song, you have responsibilities. You are government and you should rule, and you should rule looking at all of Catalonia, not just part of it. And they think that, as a Member of the Camp de Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre, I know exactly what I'm saying. If you did, maybe you wouldn't be able to advertise to the newspaper singing the excellencies of the Generality's premise in these areas. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Long break. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia; say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.74.0	Yes, please, separate vote from points 5 and 6, which could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.75.0	Any more separate voting petitions? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Well, I inform you... I don't know if you've been commenting on it in the course of the debate, but in any case you've accepted item 7, which implies the deletion of item 8, huh? Therefore, we will not vote on item 8, since, I insist, this removal order has been accepted. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Member of Parliament, item 7, which deletes item 8, which, therefore, we will not vote on. Really? [[Pause.]] All right. So let's move on to vote on points 5 and 6 of this motion. The vote begins. Points 5 and 6 were rejected by 60 votes in favour, 64 against and 8 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was unanimously approved: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the impact of cartels on the Catalan economy and the Administration of the Generality]] [[302-00195/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the impact of cartels on the Catalan economy and the Administration of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To expose her, has the word Mrs Yolanda López. Forward. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.76.0	Thank you, President. We understand that the Government of the Generalitat, in the exercise of its powers and as guarantor of the good administration of public resources, is obliged to act in order to put an end to the abusive practices of some companies that join and create cartels that directly and indirectly harm the institution and the citizens of Catalonia. This should not only be a premise of ours, but of all parliamentary groups, and in particular a premise of the Government. But the reality is that this is not the case. And that is not the case because, if we had not brought this matter to this chamber, the Government would continue with its arms crossed and without concern in the face of such a situation. And it is not that I say it, it is that it was demonstrated in the intervention of the past Plenary of the Councillor of Transparency : he said that "the necessary actions are being carried out to determine whether we are still in time to be able to resort to the paper cartel, which we are happy about, but the reality is that a few months ago they even denied knowing the existence of that cartel. And, with all due respect, it is unheard of that he would not even have been worthy to inform himself as he was right at the time. How unheard of it is to hear from a counselor words like those we felt the other day in relation to Mr Oriol Puig, commenting that this gentleman was not an advisor, but an official. Or is it that you mean that officials are free of all guilt? But it is Mr Oriol Puig himself who, on professional pages, highlights being an advisor to the Mobility Secretariat of the Department of Territori since November 2018, so it would be interesting for this government, and especially Republican Esquerra, to do the necessary research to clarify the situation, it will not be that from the government Torra-Aragonès is paying a salary to a gentleman who was dedicated to providing cartel companies with public contracts from the Meteocat. We have heard on several occasions the Government say that we are at the forefront of Europe, but the facts do not ratify these declarations. The Government's failure to act is putting the compensation actions against the paper envelope cartel or that of the trucks, like many others, at serious risk of limitation, which shows that this Government is missing the opportunity to claim billions of dollars from all Catalans and Catalans. As you are well aware, Councillor, only with a bureaufax would it prevent irreparable damage to the public coffers and the complete humiliation of the Catalan administration at the expense of the companies of the common pochero. If we recover 2_million_and_average_of_euros from the truck cartel, we will be able to invest them in renovating equipment, for example from the Fire Departments, and if we recover millions of euros, which are unqualified, from the paper envelope manufacturers, from the excess we have paid for over the last thirty years, probably the next elections would be paid. In short, from En Comú Puedos we invite you to take pioneering measures in the State, to be a reference for the other administrations, to defend the public interest, to defend the Generalitat's coffers and the dignity of the institutions. Because it is unacceptable that the fraud of the illegal price hike goes unpunished, and it is even more so when it affects public money. That is why we have tabled this motion, not to follow up the cartels – which is what Acco is for – but to identify the involvement of the Catalan administration or its agencies in this type of practice, making money recovery actions mandatory, ensuring that companies that have defrauded the public administration are excluded from any form of public procurement, establishing a comprehensive control of these companies, and to exercise a zero-tolerance policy against cartels, removing those persons from the Generalitat administration who act or have acted as facilitators, and to create a public register of companies that have formed part of cartels that have thus harmed the administration. In short, to fight with this scourge, to fight against corruption and to defend public money. We hope that all the parliamentary groups in this House will support this motion today. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Maialen Fernández. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.78.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, good afternoon to all. In this motion we talk about business cartels and their involvement in the Catalan administration. And with that name, which a priori seems like a conspiracy, we confirm that we are actually talking about a formal agreement between companies in the same sector whose aim is to reduce or eliminate competition in a given market. They also talk about the bid rigging, whose anglicism, translated into Spanish, means ‘the rigging of tenders or fraudulent manipulation of tenders in public procurement procedures. Estimates made at the international level indicate that the price of goods and services increases by more than 20_per_cent when collusive behaviours of companies involved in administrative and contracting procedures have occurred. But do you know what's going on? That the biggest bid rigging is precisely and has its mirror in the Generalitat of Catalonia itself, in the City Council of Barcelona – in which you govern – in the Institution of Catalan Letters, etc., avoiding any public contest and applying the fingers as a popular mechanism to plug your friends and related companies. You are presenting us with a motion urging the Government to request legal reports on each sanctioning resolution of the National Competition Market Commission or any other European or autonomous body concerning cartels or other infringements of competition. It seems that they have a controlling fever, above all that refers to competition, but it seems to us that this intention is more testimonyal than effective, whereas it is redundant, since there is already a law on public sector contracts, in which several of its articles, and especially 167, already clearly state how to act, in public administrations, in the face of contracts in which there are signs of collusion or corruption. It is precisely a law that is to avoid favouritism, plug-ins, fraud, corruption, and that, as we constantly see in the Union of Accounts, some of its public agencies and leaders jump quite often. However, with this consistency that characterizes them, they reject our amendments, in which, among other measures, we called on the Government of the Generalitat to carry out actions to claim damages, being a party and reparing the public finances of the damage caused, demonstrating once again their demagogy in a motion for the gallery but at all executive in its resolution. I give advice that I don't have. I invite you to look at your own navel, since in your own home you have enough bibliography to start acting. Listen, after this campaign of interested and involved whitening, perhaps you should explain to Mrs Colau how public tenders work properly, in the face of the finger she applies. And in this sense I remind you that there is already an investigation by the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia for alleged bad practice, precisely in the Aerobus cartel and the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, which is an entity presided precisely by Mrs Ada Colau. It appears that he was allegedly acting as a judge of a public competition benefiting one of his participants, Barcelona Metropolitan Transports, in a collusive plot of more than EUR 89.5 million. In fact, the Catalan Competition Authority is about to resolve this 100/2018 Initiation Letter, precisely in May 2020. It was started in November 2018 and casually now, just over two months..., two months from now, it is about to be resolved, when you present this very motion of face-washing. To remember also that the council of Mrs. Colau, Podemos, has disbursed since the year 2015 1,200,000_euros to the company Engineering Sense Frontiers, in which one of its responsible, Mr. Badia, currently councillor of Climate Emergency in the City of Barcelona, with that money was dedicated to making reports that, at least, they have to be astrophysicistic to dedicate to them this money, eh? , against Agbar company to directly control water management. We are also aware of other cartels produced throughout our autonomous community, such as the one you mentioned of Mr Puig's brother, ex-counselor of CiU, as regards the cartel of the Meteorological Service of Catalonia. And also last November we were familiar with the cartels that had to do with a network of assembly and maintenance companies in Tarragona. The fight against collusion in public procurement should be a priority, taking into account its detrimental effects on public resources and the violation of equal opportunities of companies participating in public procurement. Our parliamentary group will, of course, always advocate that public tenders be made on the proper terms and in accordance with the law, denouncing, as it has done, untiringly any irregularities in them. Let us hope that the pact between Podemos and the separatists will not include pressure on the autonomic competition authorities to let the sanctioning files against Colau expire.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.79.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.80.0	I'm running out, President. Despite its decaffeinated motion and for transparency, the safeguarding of public money and law enforcement, we will vote in favour of it, with the exception of the second and the seventh, in which we will abstain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Mr Jordi Albert. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.82.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament, well, a motion that has been presented to us by the Parliamentary Group in Comú We can and in what I want to begin by thanking the good disposition on the part of all the Members and Members that we have been working on this document, because I think that we have seen a few times as from all the cross-section, in the end, we have come to agree on one point or another, taking into account the positions that had also been defined in this young man's march. If we take the criteria of the same young man, we agree – we agree. We agree in Estemels cartels, that there is often a deep lack of knowledge about the dynamics and the very promotion of cartels, and therefore their own meaning, there is a deep lack of knowledge about this..., it has also served us to deepen it and to determine who are the mechanisms that we can also incorporate legislatively so that in our country this practical is not a gift. It is necessary to distinguish between the oligopolis, that in the end it is a network of entrepreneurs or a group of entrepreneurs controlling a market, a cartel, which is already the next step, that it is this group of entrepreneurs who agree and agree on a price and intervention in public competitions or in others and, because we understand each other – and I am sure that if I say so everyone will understand it well – they share the paste. It is therefore clear that, on the basis of the public contract criteria, this cannot happen in our country. And actually at points... for example, at the request of the legal report, which is the first point, we agree. In fact, the usual procedure is that the same Directorate General for Economic Promotion, Competition and Regulation what it does is to analyze each of the resolutions that arise; from these resolutions it makes a proposal to the competent department, so that from here it intervenes and asks for this rescue. A full right of redemption which is very well typified from the exercise of the application of the transposition of a European directive in Article 71 of Decree Law 9/2017, where the competition field is regulated precisely, and on the basis of this right to redemption, therefore, the same public administration may and may require precisely that there be a rescue, which is not to the detriment of the position of future damage and damage that may exist. Therefore, this Article 71, which we have in legislation, is basic and essential. But, on the other hand, there are other points, such as ensuring that companies sanctioned by one of the competition authorities, namely the Accó, the National Securities Market Commission, or any authority in the field of competition, and that a firm resolution and a firm sanction have been made on any of these undertakings, cannot be presented in a public competition and, therefore, are closed. This exclusion, which is also recognized in section 71 of the Public Sector Contracts Act, but, in effect, in 71.1.b, where it is specifically clear that they cannot be presented. But it is true that there has to be a control and there has to be a demand on that control. Therefore, bailout and exclusion from participation in public procurement competitions. But, more than anything else, I also incorporate these elements, as point 4 said, into the departure of conditions. We will also support this proposal, as it is intended and as it is closely related to this section 71 of the Public Sector Contracts Act. With the fifth point and the sixth point we also agree. In the fifth point, once defined as the competition area, we thank the speaker who proposed the fact that he has dealt with us this point and is much more well defined, because we have to focus on this competition law, 15/2007. And in the point set the public register... that is otherwise being managed internally, but that we will assess the possibility that it is also externally. But I want to hang a second in the second point, because here in the second point is where we don't agree. And why don't we agree? Because we have presented a point, which I shall read in writing: "To agree that in the case that the department competent in the matter of public finances, any other department or any body of the public sector of the Government of Catalonia finds that an offence punishable by a firm resolution of the Accó, the National Market Commission and the Competition or other authority of the autonomous competence has caused them an economic damage resulting from contractual relations with the sanctioned entity, the department or body of which it is to deal – therefore, compulsory – "to the Judicial Office of the Generality the corresponding order of interposition of actions. We think it's much more clearly defined than it is with the current text, and therefore we can't support it. In the rest, you have our support. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elena Fort has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.84.0	Very good morning to you all. Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies, so look, no; unfortunately, and we have to admit it, no: men and women are not good for nature. Despite the efforts made in the long history, I think we are all clear that human behavior is not always purely ethically or morally. There have been and will be, unfortunately, reprehensible pipelines, of private type, and also of public caire, of which it is damaged the collectivité rau. The democratic quality of a political organization, whether or not we are or are not following it, is often not in the absence of illegal conducts against collectivity – which is practically impossible – but in the capacity to establish means of control and penalization of such conducts, to guarantee, in short, the non-socialization and internalization of such conducts as usual. The motion submitted to the Commu Group puts us before a specific private unlawful conduct, which harms the general interests, such as the alteration of the rules of competition in public tenders. The Group of the European People's Party makes a proposal with various measures, all with the objective of deepening the necessary safeguards of control and taxation that we have previously considered, essentially aimed at ensuring the recovery of damage and damage on the part of the Generality. Protecting competition and competition in public tenders ensures equal opportunities for all operators before the Administration and avoids actions to the detriment of general interest. And that is why it must be a priority objective to achieve a public contract that, by reducing the competitive tension of operators, promotes economic efficiency, quality, innovation, and that in aggregate becomes a key factor in promoting the country's productivity and economic growth. We express, therefore, our position firmly in favour of the object of the motion, which we accept in its total practicality, if at some point in the morning, since we have done two exams – and I will not repeat, because the Republican leftist company has already commented, in Jordi Albert – that one of them has been accepted and one is not and therefore we cannot give support to. In any case, we thank the Communal Group for the work done. And I roundly return to manifest our... support for the measure – forgive; it's that you see it... It's worth saying, tanmateix, and let me hide here, that, once this position of the young man has been taken, I consider it important to make clear and remember before this Parliament that this country has made a great stride in these last years so as to structure the maximum guarantees against private, and also public, ethically and morally reprehensible and unacceptable behaviors, which have caused harm to the general interests. In order to prepare this young man, I have found a data that I do not know and that I think it is very important that everyone is clear, to put in context what we are talking about. During the year 2018, the last year in which they have complete data, 8,517 contracts have been awarded from the Government of Catalonia, representing an import of 1,439,643,962,70_euros. How many of these awards have been or have been reprehensible elements or actions? Minimal, very few. We remain responsible and therefore do not draw a reality that does not exist. We do not have a structural situation of illicit ducts in our house, nor is there any lack of control. On the contrary, we have a country with control mechanisms that work and with maximum transparency. And ultimately I would like to recall, in any case, in this Parliament, at this moment, that here we can make very solemn speeches and many principles and many values, but that there are many forms of corruption and many types of ethically and morally reprobable and unacceptable conducts, and legally, as is, for example, to manipulate for ideological reasons the decisions of a central election board or to pile up fortunes and divert them to tax havens when you are the king of, or what do you say, all the Spaniards, right? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix her position she has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs.Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.86.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, vice president, deputies, deputies. Well, the Parliamentary Group of the Common can introduce us to a motion that I think is interesting about the subject that you want to put on the table and that somehow, therefore, has probably aroused some interest in the government, and we should be concerned, because it should probably be in the case of these types of fraudulent actions that go against competition from some companies, which, among other things, cause some damage to the Administration. And, therefore, the hope of this young man is shared, and the will he pursues. But it's also true that at some of the points I think there might have been a little bit more rigour for what it does to the normal effects, because it's true that at the end of the day, right? , generate a rule, generate, therefore, a mandatory and therefore legal dynamic to the Administration. We think it's important that there's a job on the part of the Catalan Competition Agency, because it's true that we talk a lot here about the NCMC, and it's true that it's a very important job, and I think we should also force the Catalan Competition Agency to do this kind of job, right? And it is true that you have incorporated it into other autonomous authorities and powers, but I think we should force the Catalan Competition Agency, which, in this case, calls on the Vice-President, to do a concrete job in this sense. If we have suspicions of this type of fraudulent action, then we believe that we should put ourselves to work, and in this case, if there is a firm feeling in this sense, that we will rescue the Administration. Here, too, we could get some tickets that would be good for us, vice president, so we could do other things, right? But the truth is, beyond that, it's hard for there to be companies that end up having these kinds of practices to benefit them, huh? Not so many times your workers, are they? , only the same companies. We would almost vote for the whole motion in favour, even though in points 3 and 4 we believe that one thing is the departure of conditions from a bid, that it is the many administrations – the local administration, the generality and other bodies – and another is the Law of Contracts. The contract law, it's true, and Congressman Albert said, in 71.1.b already establishes this, that is, you can ban these types of bidders whenever there is a firm feeling that you have convicted them for fraudulent practices. And, therefore, if the Law of Contracts already allows it – it is a law, moreover, that has had much debate in the Congress of Deputies, with more than a thousand items, and we believe it was a law, therefore, very interesting and very positive for possible and future bidding – we believe that this can already be incorporated into the departures of conditions. But the decision is from each of the administrations. We must guarantee the compliment of the Law of Contracts and we must ensure that this article, therefore, is truly reflected in the departures of conditions of all administrations. And sometimes, so, you don't know that much, and I think we should all be clear. Maybe now that I see Mr. Albert, why, how we've been a few months with the Law of Contracts, we've been after a lot of things, haven't we? But it is true that where the Law of Contracts of the State is already established it can be incorporated into the departures, whether from a small meeting, from a district council or from a department of the Generality, and therefore what it means is to ensure that it applies and to ensure that this is done. Many times, it is true that we have the tools from the Administration; pass, that we do not apply them. And this is the drama, which is kind of what I think the MP wanted to put us on the table, isn't it? That there are fraudulent practices, that we have mechanisms sometimes to solve them, and we don't make them serve. And the one I think she wanted, too, right? ... and he has said very clearly that there has been some leave of the Generality for a few years in this sense, and we believe, therefore, that, well, that perhaps, as it seems that this young man will be approved, also for the interventions of the groups that support the Government, I think it would be a good time to reinforce this task for what he does to these fraudulent tasks in the field of the contract. And, therefore, we would almost vote in favour of all the points. It is true that we liked the thought that had been raised by the Republican Left, because it was more rigorous: once there is a firm feeling, we can ask for the ransom. As if it didn't agree, so we'll abstain at this point. But, as we say, most of us agree with the experiment, with the will, with what it lays down. And we'd like the government to be willing to work quickly on this line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.88.0	We wanted to start with two previous questions. The first one, when we read this young man, we thought we'd do up to seven things, but it seemed like it was a senseless one, in a seven-point motion, to make seven things, because we turned it into a whole thing. And second, to clarify that obviously the willingness of the proposing group, we are very clear that it is acting against cartels; this we do not discuss. But, look, if they read what they're up to at the first three points, they see that they're not referring solely and exclusively to cartels, but to everything that the National Commission on Markets and Competition considers to be contrary to competition law and, therefore, to other actions that often have nothing to do with cartels and which even acted against the regulated sectors and against workers. They have two examples of resolutions. Mirin: Resolution of the estiba sector on the appropriate collection; the Competition Commission says that it is contrary to competition law to have a stable contract for workers. According to the resolution: a minimum price for public administration is fixed in contracts for workers and workers, and the National Competition Commission considers this to be contrary to competition. As a result of this type of resolution – and it is the literal one you establish – we could obviously find that it is limited to these sectors, because the National Competition Commission has clearly considered that this is contrary to its rules. And, therefore, differentiate these two realities. We do not share and we will never share the position of the National Competition Commission or its bodies in those that have to age to attack cartels, because they do not do so. What really concerns them are not the cartels, but the regulated sectors, and many times more with these effects against the rights of workers and workers. That said, in relation to point 4, yes, we will abstain, for which it means departure, better departures, but we also abstain for which it means the new reference to the Law of Defense of Competition. I, for what it does at points 5, 6 and 7, we will vote in favour. The 5th, because it seems to us already good that action is taken against all those practices that may be contained in the public contract; the 6th, too, because they identify those and those physical persons who have also participated in facilitating the cartels, and the 7th, because it also seems to us very good that there can be a public register where the companies that perform control activities in the Catalan Public Administration appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.90.0	Thank you, President. We must say that we are moved, truly moved, by the defence of the competence that came to us from the Pode Group with the inquiry and also in this motion. I, escorti'm, donnes, enchantments of life, right? We share with you this concern for the conxorxes that may exist between companies, which, in short, are fixing prices. Obviously, we are concerned about this, but we are also concerned that other measures should also be taken to set prices or also those legislative initiatives that serve to eliminate part of the competition. I'm saying why – he mentioned it before, right? – we had the Bill of Contracts to serve people, which precisely the ideas of We can come up with a little in this sense, to say: "Well, we eliminate a part of the competition and try to favor according to what type of companies. And the price limitation thing, then, they'll understand that we don't share it either, right? We are convinced – and I believe that you also make it clear in this motion – that competence is good, that competence benefits the joint citizens and benefits the administrations, and that lack of this harms them. And, indeed, this is the role that the competition agencies adopt: the National Competition Market Commission, the Catalan Competition Authority or other authorities, right? And, therefore, most of the time, we will give support to this motion. Point out aspects that have been cited. On the point number 2, we, at the point number 2, ask that those effects which have been made to the Administration, therefore, are repeated and the damages are claimed, when we say that we understand it in relation to point 1, that when there is a resolution, it is necessary to identify whether he has participated in public proceedings and who is the damage; therefore, an identified Coptic. So, once there's been a resolution, we understand that the damage has to be claimed. In change, we will not give support to point number 7, which is the creation of the public registry. Basically because we understand that the Administration already has a register of these characteristics, but we have to make black lists of entrepreneurs and make them public we just didn't like them. We understand that the Administration uses it, but one other thing is that it's public. Just to get it over with, then, to get it over with, right? , congratulate them and give them the welcome in defense of the competition. And welcome to liberalism. Thank you. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the deputy lady Yolanda López, again. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.92.0	With regard to the amendments that have been submitted to us, we have not accepted any amendments from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, for a simple and basic reason: because it always tries to bring everything to the level of the monotheme and from an electoral perspective. And we're very sorry, but since En Comú Puermos we won't play the game for you. Just tell the Member that we're going to get them to read point number two so they can see the logic of their speech. We have come to talk about a rather important and urgent issue, a silent corruption that affects the public coffers and, therefore, the money of all Catalans and Catalans. Such a fundamental and necessary issue to deal with should not be distorted. With regard to the amendments tabled by the groups of the Government, we cannot accept Amendment No 1, because you leave the door open to a department of the Generalitat to see the damage suffered. And I would like to ask you: does not the resolutions of the Acco or the CNMC seem sufficient and forceful to them? With regard to the second amendment, we are pleased to have been able to deal with it, but I repeat: for this reason, we hope that all the parliamentary groups will support us, in order to put in place decisive measures to curb this silent corruption. Zero tolerance against corruption also means excluding from the public service those who exercise for private benefit. [[Some applause. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.93.0	Thank you. We called for a vote. Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.94.0	President, to request a separate vote on point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.95.0	Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Miss Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.96.0	Separate vote from 2 and 7. If they can be done together, well, if not, then separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.97.0	Separated the two and the seven, huh? Congressman, yes? Mr. Aragonese?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.98.0	President, yes, to ask for a separate vote from the points of '1 to 3, which can be voted jointly, point 4, and points 5 to 7, which could also be voted jointly. [[Maialen Fernández Cabezas asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.99.0	Yes, say'm, deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.100.0	Yes, for contradictions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.101.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.102.0	Good. Mrs López, if my point number 2 had been read, our point number 2, which even in the amendment we were improving the one you were incorporating, we simply added that the Government of the Generalitat was promoting actions for damages by being a party. I do not know exactly what you mean when you speak to us about our speech, at no time have we mentioned the process, which in any case we have not caused either, and at point 8 to which you referred, we only did actions of complaint; nothing to see or violate the principle of innocence that you told me yesterday at the time of the transaction. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.103.0	All right. [[Jordi Albert and Knight ask to speak.]] Mr. Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.104.0	President, for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.105.0	Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.106.0	All right. With regard to what Mrs López has just said, it is very clear what we say to the question that we have presented in relation to point 2 and it is a firm resolution of the Acó and, therefore, with a firm resolution of the Acó we start the whole process of right to bail out. It's clear. In change, as currently written point 2 and defined wording is given place to the interpretation. In fact, given the interpretation that Mr Rodriguez has had to explain his position with respect to point 2, he understands that it relates to point 1 and we understand that it is not so and that therefore point 2 should have a wording like what we propose to our motto. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If I was able to score the separate voting petitions and the different groupings correctly, we would vote for points 1 and 3; point 2, in the band, with the previous reading – it has been asked that it be read in advance of this point –; points 4, 5 and 6 together and, finally, 7. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. Let's go vote, so, the points... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? The four of them separately? Okay. [[Pause.]] Let's vote points 1 and 3. The vote begins. Points 1 and 3 were approved by 127 votes in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. We're voting point two now. Before, however, I will ask the secretary, Mr. Campdepadrós, who makes a preliminary reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.108.0	"The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government, identified as having an effect on the Catalan administration and/or on some of its public or private bodies, to establish in a mandatory manner the requirement to promote actions to claim damages and damages, with the aim of rescuing the public finances of the wrong caused.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.109.0	So let's go ahead and vote on this point. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 69 against and 51 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. The quarter has been approved by 128 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting points 5 and 6. Start voting. Points 5 and 6 were approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. The seven-point was approved by 76 votes in favour, against and 56 abstentions. There's no more way to vote for this young man. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.110.0	Well, good afternoon, let's resume the session. After the vote, you will be surprised that there is a proposal to change the agenda. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the agricultural sector]] [[302-00196/12]] In any case, now close to starting with the new item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the agricultural sector. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and to expose it has the word, in the first place, the deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.111.0	Deputies, councillor, thank you for being here. I want to begin by reading a piece of the statement by the Board of Spokesmen in support of the agricultural sector, which we formalized yesterday. And I will read it literally: "The Catalonian Parliament is committed to raising policies aimed at boosting the economy in the rural world, on the line of curbing the depopulation and abandonment of primary agricultural, timber and forestry activities and promoting actions to combat the price crisis of food producers. It must be coordinated with all administrations. This text is signed by virtually all groups in the camera, except the CUP. That is, it is a text that we could say is practically consensus-based. And although this motion is focused on the Terres de l'Ebre, basically, it develops this very thing that I have just read: support for the primary sector, curb depopulation and, in general, boost the rural economy. Therefore, there should be no problem in supporting this motion by the groups, even if it comes from Citizens. Depopulation. I start with the most important thing, without money there are no projects. The budget of the Generalitat should increase the investments for the Terres de l'Ebre, because they are the four regions where it is least invested, in all Catalonia. A 1,6_per_cent of territorializable investments. That is, below its gross domestic product. Investments that can be used to extend fiber optics, to enhance the heritage of rural architecture and dry stone or to improve the care of dependence, access to health services, facilities for students in rural areas, the railway connection of Terres de l'Ebre with Camp de Tarragona and with Barcelona. All this is to help retain families in rural areas and in Terres de l'Ebre, in general. People living in Terres de l'Ebre and in rural areas are not heroes, they are citizens who need services and earn a living. With regard to the primary sector. I have to talk about pasta again. We deserve a better agriculture budget, because this government devotes only 1.2_per_cent. And it's bad for me to say it again so many times, but 1.2 I think it's a figure that we all have to memorize. It is the importance this Government attaches to the primary sector. But this Government must also work with its budget, with the Government of Spain and with the European Union, to avoid the price crisis, for fiscal measures and access to credit for liquidity problems on farms. This government must pamper the farmer, who is having a bad time, to get over the bump. More aid for young farmers and rural women. Do not abandon the fight against the apple snail or prioritize the deployment of the irrigation of the Xerta-Sénia. With regard to forest management and fire prevention, I want to talk about biomass. We need to boost the demand for biomass; that industry, municipalities and individuals install boilers, in order to create this demand for biomass and thus be able to boost the supply of biomass, in order to guarantee supply. And with respect... this is all about the unmanaged forest. The Generalitat must work to reduce this area of forest that is not managed, because if we do not manage it, in the end it is managed alone, in the form of fires. Only with sustainable forest management will we be able to reduce the risk of major forest fires such as those we are currently suffering from. The aim of all these measures is to boost business activity related to our forests, management and exploitation. And if we're talking about Terres de l'Ebre, we need to talk about the Delta. I bring here the claim of the Consensus Table, which is a master plan for the protection of the Delta. To make it clear what immediate measures we need to implement, but to plan the necessary measures in the medium and long term; to evaluate from the containment of marine flows, to the management of sediments, with multiannual budgets, of course. And not only the Generalitat, also of the administrations that are involved; let's talk about pasta again. And I want to finish the last minute by saying that always, but especially when there is a misfortune, we must put all our own resources at our disposal. But also try to capture all available aid, such as state aid, for when there is a fire like that of the Ribera, or when there are floods like those of the Barberà Conca or the Gloria, in the Delta. And I accuse of a serious lack of coordination and loyalty between the State Administration and the autonomous, on both sides. A lot of dialogue to talk about independence or pardons and little sincere dialogue on issues that really interest citizens. In the face of a climate disaster, with serious damage and human misfortunes, it is incomprehensible that coordinated measures are not provided and that efforts are added by the two administrations. Collaboration must be improved with loyalty and a desire for public service, because if we do not do so, the Delta will continue to regress, the rural will continue to depopulate, the forest will continue to burn, and agricultural and livestock activity will continue to cease. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.112.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, the first word is the deputy Óscar Ordeig, of the PSC Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.113.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, members of the Government..., well, to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, this motion from Ciutadans on the agrarian sector, let's start..., I will be an irreverent little, on..., where it is..., ah, the deputy Francisco Dominguez... I believe that we make a mistake of focus, in general, when we debate on territorial development, on the rural world, that there is not on the agrarian world, and that is that there is a biax: no, in the rural world not everything depends on the agrarian world, even though the agrarian world is strategic. The agri-food sector is strategic for a development of the rural world, to generate opportunities; as we all know. But this is a responsibility of the President of the Government of the Generality, in the first place. Because many of the services, in some of the points that you are addressing here: accessibility to public health with equal rights, regardless of whether you are viscose; accessibility to public transport to rural schools, to territorial schools; accessibility to basic services to people with disabilities; basic services to dependence... Independently from there you are viscose, with a few minimums, this does not depend on agriculture and also conditions the return per capita, also conditions the depopulation, also conditions the aging of the rural world, which is what we are living in. So, I think that what we need, first of all, is to try to get out of this mess and make a global reflection, as we already did in the last intervention, the last thing we talked about here, about depopulation, I mean, what is the government strategy? Or no, beyond that, what is the strategy of this Parliament and of all the groups, so as to face a very complex debate, a global debate, that goes all over Europe and that here, in Catalonia, it's been years that we have also watered. Socio-economic data is clear, because we also need to have indicators of what is happening. Every time there is more depopulation, every time there is more aging, every time there is a greater difference in income per capita, between those who see big capitals and those who see rural areas. Therefore; u, as we inform ourselves of what is going on; two, which strategy we define, among all, with public resources: 2020, zero assumptions, or very little. I read of measures, as I have said many times, which are precisely against the interest that the rural world needs, the interests of the rural world. A good news, for that reason, is that the water canon seems that in the end it will not apply. So good news, too. And so, then, public policies that put an end to depopulation. We will vote in favour of total practice... well, all of us, of the whole movement, yes, they are fine..., we cannot say no; but we will also tell you that many are also very generic, many are statements of intent that then they do not concretely make a presuppositional departure, that they do not concretely execute the government within a certain time frame..., and of course, the common people brought us a young man here and we also did not bring another, we debate women debates; we talk; but the solutions do not arrive. The presupposition 2020 does not include anything, we go to elections and so we see what's going on. And time goes by and the difficulties accumulate. We have submitted seven papers to try not to distort the motion, but try to complement it, so we could have presented more, basically we focused on trying to define an import of 30_million euros, huh? To give support to farmers who are passing it worse. Ask... we ask you to do a strategy, but apart from defining our strategy, it's up to us to go to jails where it's talking about how we fight against depopulation and jails where it's talking about how we solve problems that affect Catalans. But we ask you to go to the meetings of the ministry, as, obviously, you see where you talk about our interests. We ask for an extraordinary foundation to the presuppositions to fight against depopulation, to the presuppositions 2020. And also, we don't understand – and that's why this proposal has generated so many rebounds and that one day we can talk quietly about this – so, man, fail that it's not the help of state for fires. As well, ask – that we have already come in, too, some questions – as it is now that some of the help of the affected is called back, so that they would have to contract some credits. And in the end, to say..., if it can't..., if it has to be done one way or another, like at least, let us inform the mayors, the affected, and try to find solutions so that we can pull forward. Because the situation is complicated and we need to give solutions. And lastly, we also say, we believe that there is a great deal of agreement at the level of all Spain, but also at the level of Catalonia, in order to face the crisis of prices among all the agents of the food chain. So, these are our proposals, we've come to some transactions that I appreciate the young man's proposal. And we also have – I'm sorry, before we finished – a solution to the problem we have, from the veterinary assistants of the escorts, who have been demanding some solution and who can bring a serious problem to the exports of meat and who need an urgent solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.114.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of Deputy Marc Parés, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.115.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Well, first of all, as I've done before, so thank the deputy for allowing us to continue talking about these issues in this chamber, carrying this young man. A very nice young lady, where we're talking about... and the title, isn't it? , it is about the agricultural sector, then there is a basic movement on the Lands of the Ebro and also with a more rural than exclusively agricultural focus. Therefore, in any case, what we would change is the title, not the conjunction of the motion, when we talk, therefore, of measures against depopulation, measures to protect the Ebre Delta, or on the primary sector to the Ebre Lands. Clearly, we understand that, indeed, there is an agrarian problem. Apart from many other questions, however, it is clear that agricultural income has decreased in Catalonia by 35_per_cent since the year 2001 and that in the next two years agricultural GDP has fallen by more than 8_per_cent. Therefore, here we have a problem of foundations and measures. That we have seen, for some time now, a constant loss of professional pagesia in Catalonia; there is a difficult envelope of this pageia and therefore, measures are reduced. In this sense, therefore, we have provided some ideas, also in the previous motion, on the importance of placing the emphasis on how we can, therefore, make our young people and our young people live in the rural world, not only by focusing on the primary sector, but at the same time on the activities that take place there. I also wanted to show the fact, therefore, that we believe it is important that institutions such as the Parliament of Catalonia support the page and do so, for example, in statements as we approved yesterday at the Spokesman's Meeting which, unfortunately, we have not been able to read in this Chamber, because it does not have the gathering of all the groups. And I take advantage, too, therefore, of reading a couple of more paragraphs and so on, among all of us reading what you say this statement from the Board of Spokespersons. Let us say, for example, that 'the Catalan Parliament, in the face of the crisis of prices which is affecting the fruit and vegetable sector, in the face of the crisis affecting other productive sectors of the Catalan camp, expresses its solidarity with the pages and pages concerned and demands for a fair price for the Catalan page. The Catalonian Parliament also expresses its commitment and the need to continue working towards the absolutation of fair prices and a chain of fair and equitable agri-food value. So, I think it's important that we make these kinds of statements, even though we already know that resources will then be used to make them effective. Miri, we – we have said before – effectively allow the approval of these assumptions presented to us by the Government of the Generality, even though we have many discrepancies, and especially in what is the field of agriculture, but also – and we don't, say so, do we? – among other things because it allows, for example, to make all the necessary investment in optical fiber or to increase in 900_million the assumption of Health or to develop a lot of investments in the educational field, which will also reverse over the rural world. Therefore, even though it is true that the agricultural assumption is very limited, it is also true that in other departments, therefore, there will be an investment that will reach the territories. And that, in any case, we believe that these are assumptions that actually begin to reverse the clippings, which do not make the assumptions of 2017. In any case, and to finish explaining also and aggravating the Member, therefore, the considerations that we have presented, many of which have been dealt with..., a concrete thought in the area of dry stone, in the area of the staff's relationship will work in the rural world, in the area of sediments in the Delta – that is, the idea of an integral management plan of sediments in the conjunct of the Ebra basin; that is, what happens in the Delta has to be seen with what happens in the conjunct of the basin and, indeed, there is to be action from all the administrations –, or also with a general perspective, which in this motion does, therefore, through one of our own, that we incorporate. Therefore, thank you that we have been able to incorporate these items through transactions. We'll abstain at 1a and 9b. And here I also wanted to refer to Congressman Ordeig, didn't I? , that to his point which he presented at the end Ple to our young man, which also carried his own SCP motion and which he has now presented in this young man from Ciutadans, therefore claim or propose these 30_millions to create an extraordinary funding fund, a fund with which we agree. What we don't understand is why... in our young man we proposed exactly the same transaction, which he did accept, which he was able to deal with the Citizen Group. Therefore, we have also liked, the transaction they have made with Ciutadans, to have had it with our group. But in any case, as with this transaction we agree, we will vote for it. Therefore, there is no point in voting on this transaction, and, as I said before, precisely because we understand that the debates are going to take place there where they play, and when we talk about concrete amounts when we are having a debate of assumptions, we understand that this is where we need to have these debates. All right, all right, We will also abstain at 16 and 19 bis. In the remainder, we shall vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.116.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Irene Fornos, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.117.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselors, deputies and deputies who at the first hour of late you are here, good delay to all and everyone. First thing you want me to do, right? To Congressman Francisco Domínguez and to thank him for having brought to Parliament a motion for agriculture, a motion that I celebrate, not only because there is a part that is very much about the Lands of the Jews, but also because I think that in two years that almost, already, we carry from legislature already touched, right? This question was raised at the end of the plenary session and brought a motion to Parliament at a time when the agricultural sector in our country and the rural world are living and patenting. A young woman who is very long, my companions have already said it, more than twenty points, with many fears; I will try not to repeat myself with those who have already said it. And a motion that I would define, if I may, as a summary of government action, and in this case as a summary of those policies that from the Department of Agriculture are due to term. And I'm saying this because I basically believe that it was done that most of the points were approved, and most of them also accepted our papers and made many of the transactions possible, which I also appreciate, so I think that's also shown, and sometimes I think that they helped make this young man much more rich, which I think is stronger... not just for the young man's sake, but for the sector as well. I said I can't get into all the points. I would like to talk about some that have not been mentioned, as is this interdepartmental commission that we need to be valuable to; we need all departments to get involved to pull it forward and fight against the rural depopulation that affects our country. Yes, it is true that the Lands of the Ebre are surely the most remote regions of this rural depopulation. The issue of the food chain from the department is working very hard in every sense, and above all thinking about food security, fair prices, zero-kilometer products, right? These proximity products. And I'd also like to point out, since there's also been the input from the common company, the young people's theme, the generational replete, right? , and the incorporation of the women in the rural world. And I think that here too, the department's share of what would be the mark, isn't it? PDRs and all that they allow us to do. And it is also, as I said, a figure that I think is very important to our country, as are the agricultural training schools, that what is being done is to help train young people who are betting for agriculture, for the fishing industry or for the fishing industry in our country, and who are getting a lot more prepared and who now, more than that, can be accompanied by these figures who are accompanying them, such as the dynamotizer, who is talking about the young man of Francis, or who is also a figure who is not talking about the young man but who wants to be filled, that is mentoring, who is also making himself through the agricultural training schools, who is accompanying all the good women who want to start in the world. In fact, a lot of points also speak of agrarian thickets, but in order to pull them forward, obviously, these assumptions are necessary to what you, taken to being reduced, aren't you? That they're not the ones you want, that they don't want to give you support, but that all and every one of the points that you've brought to this young man, without these assumptions, they won't be able to pull before. A young man who, as they have said before, also wanted to focus on the Lands of the Hebrews, and I could not leave this Faristol without focusing on two points, 10 and 11, which speak about the delta of the Hebrews, a very fragile delta, a delta which these days, through the temporal Gloria, all have seen for the television and to all of us has made a lot of suffering. But this fragility is not new, it is a fragility that many years ago we have been complaining about it, that from the Republican Left we are complaining to many institutions that we are investing in staying there to stop the regression, to stop the subsidence; the delta is running. And all of this, as Congressman Parés also commented, ends up with a problem that the Delta lacks sediments; some sediments that are still high, in the more than 192 embassements that are in the shell of the Ebre. And here I believe that not only the Catalan institutions, not only the institutions of the territory, but also at European level..., and I also believe that here it must be asked above all the Ministry for the Ecological Transition that the piles remain on the subject of sediments and remain measures and money because the sediments arrive in the delta of the Ebra. And I wouldn't want to finish my job without just making two specifics. I, Mr. Francisco, do not doubt at any time of your good will; in fact, we share many commissions together, we have worked you, and I know that you appreciate the sector, appreciate it and want to help it. But I do want to be stuffed in two connected things, a little, at the last part of my intervention, which I don't quite fit, in which I think your party doesn't have that clear. Because I do not think that, for one band, you are concerned about the primary sector of the Lands of the Ebre, of these rednecks that these days we see in their camps full of salt water and that all of us were concerned about, but that, for another band, the European Parliament signs the free trade agreement with Vietnam, and that these days will be a curse, in the future it will be a very big curse for the pages and the rednecks of the Lands of the Ebre. There's one other thing that I didn't have to convince myself, and it's that, as well as your good will and all that you've accepted these points, 10 and 11, in the protection of the Ebro Delta, I didn't have to square that every time you've elected to the City view is always giving the table the possibility of a future transfer of the Ebro. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.118.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of MP Mònica Sales, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.119.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, it is impossible to address all the questions of this motion for lack of time, most of them linked to agriculture, from different perspectives, but others also with culture, health, transport and infrastructure or technology. In view of the impossibility, they will allow me to make a general reflection with the Lands of the Ebre in focus. The depopulation worries, and establish measures to defeat them' phonenally. To do so, we can talk about repopulation and population, about recovering it and keeping it, about setting it up and giving it real opportunities, with projects and with various programs and actions. Living country, country of opportunity: horticulture of territorial, economic and social dynamism of the plan of government that for a few months has been engaged with the will to work bilaterally, Government and territories; territories that are part of a wide and with a clear identification of all the agents involved. Because the government's vision of the country and the Ebre Lands must not be mono-focal or bi-focal, it must be multi-focal, with all possible focus on vision, and that it must cross-cuttingly combine the coordinated work in an interdepartmental way. Only if we understand the Lands of the Ebro as a whole will we make them move forward. Four comarques that set up a territory, a reality, a few realities. But let us not understand them only when there are misfortunes; let us also understand them when there are graces, when there are opportunities. In full debate of the assumptions and in a moment transcendental to establish lines presuppositions to our country, the best that you could do, that you present the motion – because we will already do it – would be to give them the green light. Also for what he does to Agriculture, but not so alone for this reason. And it is certain that as the Jewry would want more global financing for the Lands of the Hebrews, this territory that is south and that is also cruel to the Catalan Countries, as the Tossal of the Three Kings testifys. But it is also true that I have to give the country some assumptions, and this is to give the Lands of the Ebro some resources without which this means my resignation to claim more investments. At a time of the movement they speak of dry stone, and, since they do so – certainly, with twelve-thousand immobile benefits collected for the IPEC, the Inventory of the Etnológic Heritage of Catalonia, with a variable to the Jew, that is the IPCITE – they will allow us to tell them that we are very clear that all the stone is walled, and we are willing to continue building the republic that we also want from the Lands of the Jew. Approve the assumptions is the stone that makes a wall, but you are the stone on the Sabbath. The government's dynamism strategy provides for a follow-up of investments that take into account the Jewish Lands, and some points of his youth are already two in the end. One of these strategies is the well returned PUOSC. Do you know how many requests PUOSC has rejected to the lands of the Jews? One-hundred-and-a-half. A great opportunity that above all will benefit the smallest, municipalities or EMDs. We are a rural territory, and that is why we have worked for an institutional declaration of support for the sector, which has unfortunately ended up hearing a statement from the spokesman's board. And we demand the world and the right prices and being able to live off the land and the excellent quality products we produce. But we don't want to live from scratch to technological advances and progress of all kinds. This is also why we are also positive that 5G technology is facilitated at home and the deployment of optical fiber with 2023 as horticulture. Relation, relevance, identity, idiosyncrasy, singularity... The lands of the Jews understand these terms and their meaning; we want to be and decide and influence. We work for a full stream of life and with sediments, fair prices for pages, men's rowers of the sea, and also pages, rowers and women of the sea, as women of the rural world. A strong delta, free of cheeks and with a reconstructed Trabucador bar; worthy trains that brake, and not that pass from braking, or living woods. And that's why we voted in favour of most points of the motion: said twenty-two, a lot traded with the work done together with the Fornos MP. Live country, Jewish Lands you live and government actions and commitments to make it possible. That the lands of the Hebrews should be encouraged, empowered and encouraged, as their youth retreats, we know, above all the people who steal them every day or who kick them or crush them, who use them and who live and who feel them and who represent them in order to work for them and for their people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.120.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix its position it has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.121.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. To some of the points of the motion that Ciutadans presents we will give support, although we want to remember that from our point of view, and adding to the reflection that the deputy of the PSC made, when we talk about the rural world and the crisis that he saw, we can look at the structure and the system that have brought this situation, but we can also escape the idea that the rural world is an exclusively agricultural world. The rural world is a world where living-there and where access to the rights has to be guaranteed, whether with agricultural economic activity or with other economic activities. We would also like to talk about the last few points, in relation to forest management. Although we do bet on the use of biomass as an element for, especially, generating heat, we don't bet on the intentionality we see there, do we? , which basically our reading is that we take advantage of the excuse of the need to manage forest spaces for – what we are already seeing, for example, in the Eastern Valley – entering into spaces, for example in the Natura 2000 area, where we are doing a management of the forests, from our point of view, that does not put the common good forward. I won't go into any more questions, they know perfectly well what our position is on this question, in the morning we haven't spoken either. And I will take this time to talk about some of the references the parliamentary groups have made to the statement that the groups have made as the Board of Spokesmen. I don't need to put us in. We've been the CUP that we don't agree to support this statement. In any case, because of its content; we are 100_per_cent in agreement with its content, with the need for this solidarity, but we are very concerned – and we do not want to participate and therefore we want to use this space to express it – when we arrive with institutional declarations where we do not come up with concrete and material questions, with public policies. A presupposition that has been said many times, of Agriculture, which represents a 1.2 of the total. We believe that it is necessary for all parliamentary groups to reflect on institutional declarations. We can't get with statements where we don't get in on material questions, we insist. And the page of this country deserves a lot more than a statement. That is why the CUP - Constituent Creed we have not given support to this attempt to arrive, I insist, for symbolic use, where there was no political will to arrive with the material, and the assumption is not a proof.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.122.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.123.0	Thank you very much, President. To transfer our recollection to the movement for four motius fonamentals. The first is our recollection of the measures against depopulation that are being put in place; they are not all that we, in other previous parliamentary initiatives, have put in place from the top of the table, but those that are included in this ample motion fully coincide with some of those that we have laid out. Secondly, for their proposals for accessibility in rural areas to information and communication technologies, to health services, to services of all kinds, which we consider to be positive. In the third place, for the protection policies of the Ebre Delta and policies addressed to the conjunction of the Ebre Lands. Someone will be able to say – quite rightly – that the things that are explained there do not only pass to the lands of the Jew, but it is not the first time that in this Parliament of Catalonia, for certain circumstances, applies – if 'expression is allowed – positive territorial discrimination for some specific reason. And it's obvious, no one escapes, that by reason of all known as yet bet on the Lands of the Jews. And, finally, an important point, which is sometimes oblivious, which is the best economics articulated through the Catalan Institute of Finance, which has never worked in rural areas; it has devoted itself to other things – with more luck, with less luck, some better things, more worse – but in rural areas never. These four reasons – there are others – are the ones that motivate our recollection of the movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.124.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers presented, has the new word the deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.125.0	Well, fifteen amendments from the groups supporting the Government, eight amendments from Catalonia in Commu and seven amendments from the PSC; total: there have been about twenty amendments to the original text, some to three bands. In spite of that, I would like to thank all Members for the fact that it has been quite easy to negotiate and we have come to an agreement. It is clear that the government does things, but it does not do everything, it does not do everything that needs to be done for the primary sector, and neither in Terres de l'Ebre: 1,2_per_cent for Agriculture; a 1,6_per_cent of investments for Terres de l'Ebre. This government does not value the primary sector enough or invest enough in Terres de l'Ebre: "Acts are love and not good reasons. MP Irene Fornós, Esquerra doesn't want the Delta any more than anyone from Citizens, or someone from the PSC, or someone from Junts per Cat, or ordinary, or the CUP. [[Greetings.]] Don't be mistaken. If you want the Delta, put more investments in these four regions. Mònica Sales, MP Mònica Sales, continue to talk about the republic and not about the problems of Catalans. And Congresswoman Natalia Rodriguez, without it serving... [[Funnel veils]] – Sànchez, Sànchez, sorry –, without precedent, totally according to the final exhibition to appear to give support to a primary sector but not to exceed 1,2_per_cent of the budget. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.126.0	We called for a vote. [[Irene Fornos Short asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Fornos?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.127.0	Yes; for allusions. He referred to other Members, but as the first one was me. Mr. Francisco, I hope you will continue that way, that Esquerra will not follow who is most esteemed to be the Ebre Delta, but surely it is one of the parties that fought the most and fought for the Ebre Delta. [[Some applause. Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.128.0	Yeah. Mrs. Sànchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.129.0	To ask for a separate vote. I make the packs. I think it's relatively simple. Points 9, 9 bis, 12, 18 bis; can be voted together. I, for another band, the 16th, the 19th, the 20th and the 22nd.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.130.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.131.0	Yeah. We ask to vote on 18 bis, for one band; for another, 1 bis, 9 ter, 16 and 19 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.132.0	Together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.133.0	Yes, these we could vote for together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.134.0	Is it possible to repeat, please? One...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.135.0	The 1 bis, 9 ter, 16, 19 bis. [[Anna Caula and Paretas ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.136.0	Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.137.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 1a, 2, 9, 9a, 9b and 18a, which for us could be combined, but I know it is difficult to rearrange it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.138.0	We will have to vote separately from all points, because it will be impossible to reconcile everything. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Points and subpoints, yes. Let's vote, so, separately, all points and subpoints. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting 1 bis now. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 63 votes to 62, with 8 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Number 2_has been approved by 69 votes in favour, 64 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting six now. The vote begins. The 6_has also been voted unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 65 votes to 64, with 4 abstentions. We're voting 9-a point now. The vote begins. Point 9a was approved by 65 votes to 63, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now on 9 ter. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 61 votes to 64, with 8 abstentions. We're voting 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. And now we're voting 11th. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. And now on the 12th, we vote. The vote begins. This point was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting 13th now. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. And now we vote on 14. The vote begins. The 14_has been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and 4 abstentions. We're voting 14 bis. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting on 16. The vote begins. This point was approved by 121 votes to 4, with 8 abstentions. And we vote on 17. The vote begins. This point has been approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. And we vote on the 17th. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We're voting 18 now. The vote begins. It was unanimously approved: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. On the 18th, we vote. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 57 votes to 72, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on 19. The vote begins. Point 19 was approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And on the 19th, we're voting now. The vote begins. This point was approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 12 abstentions. We're voting point 20 now. The vote begins. Point 20_has been approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We vote 21st. The vote begins. This point has been approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number 22. The vote begins. Point 22_has been approved by 129 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. There are no more points in this young man. Before... [[Greetings.]] Tell me, Mr. Forné, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.139.0	Only because I realized that I was wrong in the second vote: I voted that yes and I should not vote that yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.140.0	All right, stay clear, Congressman. [[Widow's remorse.]] Before we continue with the order of the day, I said, ask... [[the remorse of the voice persists]] Please, please. Ask the chamber for the possibility to change, as requested, the order of the day, an alteration, and move to point 22, is to say, the last of the motions in place of the 21st. Therefore, swapping the 22nd and the 21st, if not inconvenient, would remain the following way: motion with the points of the order of the 19, 20, 22 and 21. This change in the order of the day may be approved by consent. Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into culture in Catalonia]] [[302-00197/12]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on culture in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Sonia Sierra has the word. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.141.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Afternoon, Members, Members, Councillors, Members of Parliament and guests who accompany us today. Catalonia, and especially Barcelona, were for a long time a pole of artistic and cultural attraction, but unfortunately that is no longer the case. To this decadence has undoubtedly contributed that nationalist governments have never looked too fondly at Barcelona. But, despite everything, Barcelona continued to attract talent for a long time. With the entrance of Convergence in the City of Barcelona, we had the first great setback in the cultural field, because Barcelona lost its artistic avant-garde and culture focused more on tourist entertainment. Then Ada Colau entered the City Hall of Barcelona, and there the decline of culture in Barcelona began to become evident. When I was a councillor in this council, committee after committee, I asked what was the plan of the commons for culture, and the answer was always the same: "We are going to do a participatory process to know what we want to do with culture. As far as I know, almost six years later, that participatory process has never been done. And I also have to say that I was always answered by a commissioner, because Jaume Asens – who was theoretically the person responsible for culture – had so little interest in the subject that he never went to the commissions of culture or the City Council of Barcelona, or the Diputation. With this detail it is clear that, to the commons, therefore, the subject of culture does not matter at all, and that is why Barcelona has been losing opportunities and has been falling back on the different rankings. From Citizens we do have a real interest in culture, and we just have to see the great work that my colleague Marta Rivera is doing, as a Culture Advisor in the Community of Madrid. In fact, Marta Rivera has done more for culture in a year than the last four Culture Councillors of the Generalitat de Catalunya. That's another: it's that we're practically going to Councillor of Culture per year, which shows the very little interest they have in the subject. Well, in the face of the Department of Culture's desire, we present a series of measures to boost and renew the cultural sector. First, we propose a plan to attract international talent, because we want Barcelona to be a pole of artistic and cultural attraction again. And we also propose to create workshops with scholarships, because we don't want money to ever be an obstacle to talent. We firmly believe that each and every artistic manifestation must be enhanced and that, moreover, this culture must reach every corner of Catalonia, because there is also a significant territorial inequality. And, no doubt, the offer of artistic exhibitions must be substantially improved, because in the interpellation I already gave a data that seems terrible to me: in the report « Best of 2019 of the Observatory for Culture, no exhibition or cultural event in Catalonia deserved to occupy any of the top ten places. This can never happen again. We also want Catalonia to be a pioneer in gender equality in the artistic landscape, and that is why we propose a series of measures to correct the gender gap that is present throughout the sector, but especially in the audiovisual sector. And we also have a proposal to prevent the perpetuation of sexist stereotypes. In this sense, I want to thank the work of Dones Visuals and Miriam Porté in particular, whom I want to thank for always bet on the female talent and I also want to congratulate her on the great success of Suc de Sindria. And in this motion we also want to acknowledge the great work of Casal Lambda with regard to the preservation of the documentation fund on the LGTBI collective and ask for protective measures for the Armand Documentació Centre in Fluvià. And another of the sectors that in Catalonia have been key since the 16th century, but which is also losing strength, is the publishing sector. We also make proposals in this regard. And in a motion dedicated to the cultural sector, we couldn't forget about their workers. Those professionals who are key to the success of the culture, but who have neither the consideration nor the working conditions they deserve and, therefore, we ask that they be improved. And finally, in recent weeks, we have seen with horror how from the Department of Culture they have supported, along with Platform for Language – the same ones that spy on children in school or point to people of immigrant origin – a horrific campaign called« No change the language, in which people's physical characteristics are discussed. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Although profiling is condemned, it is very poorly seen in the European Union...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.142.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.143.0	Yes... and that's why we, yes, ask that this campaign horror be withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.144.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group Units per Avançar, the deputy Mr Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.145.0	Thank you, President. March 8th, March 8th is the day of the feminist struggle, fighting that has to continue because there are still many male behaviors in our society. Volunteer some, and maybe, also, involuntarily others, but they all have to be corrected. The Sunday, March 9th, is the day of missing people without apparent cause. One day to make society aware of a very unknown problem, but it affects thousands of people in the year. They will allow me to also invite the souls to participate in the acts that will be held in Sant Boi and Cornellà, and in the same Department of Interior. The cause deserves it. And, coming into the motion as a result of an inquiry by Congresswoman Sierra, on behalf of Ciutadans, this consists of seven points, fourteen of which are very generic, very general and global, with which it is very difficult not to agree: to create plans, to set up tables, to set up workshops, to promote certain policies, to help boost..., etc. Well, all right. Much more could be added, and even more could have been done to kill them, but in any case, we would vote for them in the affirmative. From our point of view, however, the spring of the bone, the nuclear elements of the movement are the other two points. The dotzè claims 2_percent of the assumptions to the Department of Culture. Well, okay, absolutely okay. In fact, we have been defending it and demanding it for a long time and we have presented various initiatives, parliamentary initiatives to respect. In 2017, culture represented 0.65_percent of the Generalitat's presupposition. The government has announced a few years ago that it will allocate 13_millions of new expenditure to Culture; this will mean that the Culture budget will reach 300_millions, i.e. 0.65_per_cent. The 2_per_cent, therefore, remains very high, both, and caldrian 600_million additional euros to get there. Summary: the presupposition of Culture continues to be limited to 0.65. They're where they are. In any case, for what I have just said, obviously, we will also vote in favour of this point. And finally, the fifteen, probably the most controversial, asks that the Generality withdraw a campaign promoted by private people – I repeat it, private people – because it is based on physical traits – I repeat it, physical traits. We believe that the Generality cannot withdraw a campaign with which – I do not enter the fund – it can agree, more agree, less agree... I do not want to enter, but that in any case, it has not promoted it directly or is its responsibility. The promoters say, and I quote textually: « Our campaign neix on May 13, 2019. I repeat: 2019, May, I mean, almost a year ago. Up until fifteen days ago, no one had ever spoken of this campaign. "We are a group of people who continue to tell the promoters" that we work without charging; neither the government nor anyone else finances us. It is obvious, coming into the second question, that the expression "physical trets" has been interpreted, from our point of view, in the same direction – wrong, certainly – both for Ciutadans as for a good part of independence, which is still curious and motif of reflection, especially from the unfortunate intervention of a deputy in this chamber the Plet passed. Follow me. The promoters say: "We will not allow the appearance of a person to determine their language. We believe in an open, free, plural society, where languages are a vehicle for communication and not for division. Well, is there a problem? Our parliamentary group, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, will never support or collect the instrumentalization of languages for political purposes. Instrumentalization that is so much from one extreme as from the other; on the part of Ciutadans for one band and on the one side of independence for the other. In this battle, deputies and deputies will not find us. They will find us in the battle for freedom, for tolerance, to prevent the language from being a weapon unleashed by one against another and vice versa. You see, from the parliamentary group I represent, language... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , languages as the instrument of cohesion, integration, equity and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.146.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.147.0	It's over, President. Therefore, we have presented a message and if we do not accept it we will abstain, because we do not want to contribute to the pim-pam-pum that some of you fly and in which you feel very comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.148.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya In Comú Pueblo, it is now the turn of Congresswoman Concepción Abellán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.149.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, the cultural sector has returned to the Catalan political agenda, and this is the best news. After suffering the cuts of the public sector – and in particular of the Generalitat – in cultural policies, culture is claimed to regain a space of centrality in public policies. We believe in the fundamental role of culture as an axis of social cohesion, and that it must therefore occupy political agendas and have sufficient public resources to promote and boost it. That is why we have made every effort to increase the initial allocation of the 2020 budgets, and now, in addition, to increase even more with EUR 13 million from the flexibility of the deficit target. We have been talking about course in various plenary sessions, and we are greatly pleased. This motion allows us to speak again about culture and, in addition, to enter into the debate about what kind of culture and what is the cultural model from where to make public policies. From the outset, I must tell you that in the set of proposals made by Ciutadans a model is intuited that is not ours: that of the transfer of public money to private hands, that of culture the elites for the elites, that of the linguistic confrontation, as well as the noria of Madrid, of Villacís, which thus demonstrates how little you care about culture. Briefly, I begin with the amendment we have tabled. We will not participate in the linguistic confrontation promoted by Citizens. Of course, institutions must promote all cultural manifestations, insinuating that they discriminate against each other for reasons of non-help language, only contributes to feeding that imaginary discriminatory language that they are so interested in installing Citizens, even if it is a lie. And I'm going to explain our model discrepancies. Attracting international talent is very important to bring the diversity and cultural wealth of the world closer to our cities. Public competitions to direct cultural equipment are already open enough for international creators and creators to present themselves. And there are precedents. This has already happened. A plan to prioritise this in view of the precarious nature of the cultural sector and the difficulty of access by creators to public funds does not seem appropriate. His proposal on a workshop with scholarships to create a community of public-private collaboration, apart from not understanding that they are proposing exactly, seems to us to be in the line of promoting privatizations and concertations. We'll vote against it. On point 5: What is the top 10 for you in quality and innovation? Do you think it is time for macro-investments like the Hermitage Museum, to make a culture for elites, or to recover and enhance the museums from the cuts they have suffered? We are not going to support your proposal No 13, either, to create a new labour agreement on culture. Firstly, because it is not up to us to invade the role of trade unions and employers, it would be a political interference to make the agreement; this is not the case. And, secondly, do we know if they currently have an agreement? This is how the sector is precarious, unprotected and deregulated. And better deregulated the Parliament and the Government start with the tasks that do belong to them. Finally, we refuse to enter into the controversy about the campaign« Do not change the language. Enough confrontation. It was a mistake and a reprehensible act to appeal to the physical features, and the position of the whole world became clear; not so let us question a campaign that has good intentions. In conclusion, I would like to say that we support the other points that I have not mentioned, considering that some of them are too inconcrete and constitute a catalogue of measures that have either already been adopted and agreed, such as gender equality issues, or are already being done, and that, in any case, what would be interesting would be to give them more concrete expression in order to be able to know exactly what we are talking about. And I give you an example: « A plan to reactivate the publishing sector in Catalonia, are we talking about the specialized edition, about the return of the Planeta Group...? What exactly are they referring to about this? And in any case, I was telling them that we are delighted to talk about culture and, above all, to address the debate on the model of cultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.151.0	Good afternoon to everyone. A little more we are here to talk about a citizen's youth and this interest they have in talking about culture; it is again a sluggish interest, and they do again what they already have used to, badly: they take from context some words, barren debates, they contaminate it all and then they shoot it; lying like a polemic for political wear. When today they talk about culture, after confrontation– we just have to remember the question they ask us the other day– and when they talk about education, after confrontation, always seek confrontation, intrinsic to their DNA. Neither are they to store, they need precisely for this, to fight linguistic immersion, successful model recognized for everyone less for you, the people of City. We don't want to make them this game. We like to see life in a purposeful way. As much as I'm going to see another thing I'm going to say to the advance: we don't share the words that Mrs. Erra served the other day, but, also, that doesn't mean that we don't complain that what she said isn't being lied to or that the campaign has to be withdrawn."Don't change my language. And I'll tell them why: I'm Catalan speaking, like mother tongue, and defense day by day making it serve, the same way that I decide to do it too who doesn't have it as the first language of use. Let's remember something that's very clear sometimes, but maybe it's good to think about it: that a language doesn't disappear due to people's disconnection, disappears when their speakers decide not to use it. And let's go to data, tretes de l'Idescat : knowledge of the català, 94_per_cent; « can you talk? , 81_per_cent; « read it? , 85_per_cent; « does he speak as usual? , 36_per_cent. In the castle all these answers are linear: 99_per_cent. So we do have a problem; we do have a task to do. For many years I have to recognize that I have followed those who changed the language, that when someone went to me in the castle, I changed and answered him in the castle. Maybe because I grew up watching a television where there was only a chateau; maybe because I only catalyzed at school until primary at the catalyse assignment; maybe because I had been taught very little that was of good education. Until one day I thought, "Why are you doing this? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He was unconscious, and in a way I can say that I anticipated the campaign "Don't change language. And, no, this is where we disagree with the way you see our country. No, when I don't change language, it's not because you don't like the castle, or deny it, or much less, but because I appreciate my mother tongue and I've expressed myself much better. And I don't have a problem, nor do I think my company has it if we detect that someone doesn't understand us, we automatically talk to him in the castle, because what we want to hear is also all around us. Other companies were talking about it: if we read one of your ladies, there are such insubstantial things! : « Create a plan to enhance the different cultural manifestations in Catalonia. And as long as we do, we follow the select; we have presented a thought in which we give it in five aspects, where we go to hurry..., that it is not done; it has not followed its..., accept it. Point 7: "To foster a culture for everyone and without exclusions, that does not have a will of confrontation or a partisan, and here would make some parentheses, and we follow, "but as an inclusive element and that is accessible to everyone, regardless of their socio-economic situation. And why do I put these parentheses to "that I do not have a will of confrontation or party? It's you who come here every time to talk about this. We, confrontation, even culture, want it. We have titillaries, we had children of the king of Santiago Serra, an exhibition of political prisoners that no one wanted... Culture sometimes has to be this: provocative, it has to make you remorse, it has to make you think. Why do we want a culture that doesn't compare? Maybe why do we want a rule culture? Getting back to censorship time? Culture must make us more free. And if you compare our ideas and make us change our minds, much better. That's why it's there. We don't want a neutral culture or totally part of it. We'll leave that to the totalitarian rules. And, yes, we bet on culture. I think that..., reading a tweet from Acta Cultura 2_% we can read as we are told: « Let us hope that this increase of 72_millions..., of what has been done in Culture... – and the vice president and councillor commented on it the other day – « that this is a setback and that all this involvement is a change of trend, because, so good, we all want a republic to be free to express ourselves and to hear culture in an open and inclusive way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.152.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.153.0	...and because culture has its recognition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.154.0	... your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.155.0	Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.156.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Francesc Ten. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.157.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, people from the public gallery who will accompany us: I wanted to offer you a little exercise in commenting on the text of this very Ciutadans motion on culture. If we make a reading of the seven points, we detect that we can divide it into two halves: the point number 8 is a point that deals with language, and at the end of the second half there is another point that also speaks about language, so we can see that the tip of the iceberg of these two halves are linguistic questions; those that please Citizens, if we take into account that it is a party that needed to load the linguistic immersion, a party that was born due to the conflict, to the confrontation from the linguistic fact, and a party, therefore, that also has many dedications to TV3, to the body, to the Catalan audiovisual world. So, it seems..., we could make an interpretation that in this case culture is almost an excuse, it's a garrison to go to the linguistic question. And maybe it's true. Perhaps it is true, because if we take, for example, the first half – it has already been said – all the points..., some are generalist obviations, and, therefore, in some things we will vote for it; some, to be so inconcrete, we will vote against it. Even I think it's a narrative..., a narrative of Ciutadans a little, lexically, poor; it's to say, we're only talking about « creating a platoon, « creating a platoon, « creating a platoon, « creating a platoon... We've obviously come up with ideas, with Government, explaining that from plans we have: we have the Platoon, the Platoon of music, the Platoon of arxius, the Platoon of reading, the Platoon of museums. All these plans, what we have to do is provide them with a presupposition and keep working. The first point of this language, point 8, speaks..., we could come up with some contradiction. The 8th point of "recognize, help and promote all cultural manifestations, regardless of the official language in which it is realized: català, occità – aranès-occità –, or Spanish – I think it means castella. But then, at the next linguistic point, at the 15th point, you say: "I demand the immediate withdrawal of "Don't change my language. What do we stay in? We support all cultural events regardless of the idiom or we demand the withdrawal of the campaign "Don't change my language. A campaign that is not from the department, cannot, the department, demand a withdrawal from it. A campaign that he does is not assume that others don't understand us. It's a campaign of use and language learning. Who wanted to change it is because he has an explicit interest in not recognizing the difficulty in living our language. There's some point in talking about assumptions. We..., 2_per_cent is a path, and before the 2nd we find l'1, and before the 1st we have the favorable and excellent news of 13_million more, as the councillor and vice president announced, for Culture. This is the way we like it, and we have to keep working there. Some of the points seem to me worth valuing, therefore, in which form they are; if..., in a text comment the form is very important. « Create..., set up workshops with grants to create a community of public-private collaboration. Well, the phrase might be better... that's what we'd agree on. And that's kind of the tonic of this young man. Still, I appreciate the fact that you've accepted papers, honestly. I appreciate some transaction we've made, honestly. We will vote in favour of some points and in the others, what we will put into evidence and would like to say is that we have well-differentiated starting points in the cultural question: some groups are, despite the differences, that there are, in the tune of "a people's sun and culture as it is, to be even more so; Citizens use culture precisely to be two people, to divide linguistically and to confront us, and, above all, with painful forms. Still, thank you, all the fellow Members, for the work we've done on this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.158.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix its position it has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the congresswoman Natàlia... [[Funnel veils]] Carles Riera, so. I had a point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.159.0	Thank you, President. Well, in this Ciutadans culture movement, we will give support to some points that raise the presumption for the cultural sphere; we will also give support to some points that raise the fight for gender equality also in the cultural sphere and the fight against sexist patterns in cultural production. But, obviously, we do not share the cultural management model that you propose, a cultural management model that we think tends to privatize, market and an elitist concept of culture that places public administration practically as a central shopping center and distribution of a privately-owned cultural production. We defend a model based on the public ownership of cultural production, on own production, on direct management and, in any case, on the agreements and concerts that promote, help and promote the culture of popular production and basic culture, at the same time as active policies to dignify the working conditions of the workers of culture. And, look, for what it does to language, we have said it many times in this Parliament and now we will say it again and again, our goal in linguistic policy is that the Catalan language should become the common language and social cohesion between the different linguistic communities of our country, and that we welcome the same measures of protection and promotion, precisely the same, no less, than the official languages of the states are objecting, all folded into the mark of a multicultural and multilingual society in which multilingualism is a value. Today, the Catalan language, unfortunately, is still far from assimilation of these objectives and, therefore, from our point of view, they are still necessary initiatives of positive discrimination in favour of the social use of the Catalan language. This is why we stand against the points of the young person who refer to the linguistic theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.161.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. First of all, to convey a discrepancy we could say conceptually with the conjunction of interventions, both of the proposers and of the rest of political groups. It is not the same Catalan culture as the cultural policy of the Government of Catalonia; it is in reality radically different. Catalan culture is almost unlimited and fortunately out of public circuits. And fortunately, as in any country, the vast majority. It is to say, if Jackson Pollock, Los Ramones, Jaume Sisa or Vainica Double had to depend on public subsidies, they would never have been born out of life. Therefore, culture is out. And another thing is the cultural policy of a government, which is what we are dealing with; we are not talking about Catalan culture, we are talking about the cultural policy of the Government of Catalonia. And here the young lady does that, with the points I counted, we agree, because this cultural policy of the Government of Catalonia is, by definition, limited, and it does have certain obligations of institutional neutrality. For example, it must seek, as far as possible, to be cosmopolitan, not so identityary or endogenous; it must try not to be so attached to the public administration and to seek public-private cooperation; it must be more plural, less politicized, less sectarian; it must seek – it is said at the point – the recovery of the Barcelona editorial capitality, which, certainly, has absolved in a few moments with governments than it is indifference when not directly hostile, done that shows what it gave before: that it is not the same Catalan culture as the cultural policy of a government. Therefore, given this differentiation, we will gather the points of the motion, but, frankly, when culture is further away from this absurd debate we have every day in this plenary... much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.162.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the papers, Mrs Sierra has the new paragraph. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.163.0	Thank you, Mr. President. A preview. I have spent my life being a teacher and correcting text comments, and, of course, Mr Ten has been very lucky that I was not his teacher, because to his text comment is that not a five scraped. [[Some applause.]] Neither to the text commentary, nor in grammar, because, according to the RAE, the correct term is « Spanish, no« Spanish, and I, of course, always go with the RAE. [[Widow's remorse.]] Sir... [[Some applause.]] Mr Bruguera, this image I have taken directly from the website of the Generalitat, and it also says : « Linguistic policy promotes the campaign between more than eight thousand pupils and the twenty-two centres of the Consorci de Normalizació Linguística. Of course you can take it off. And we cannot accept that amendment because we cannot accept a campaign based on profiling, which, as I say, is condemned by the European Union, and we have already denounced it in the European Parliament. By the way, Mrs Anna Erra, with her racist statements, has already been awarded by placing the one in the School Board of Catalonia, which now we have that school board presided over by an accused and now a racist as a member. What a shame the... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.164.0	Congresswoman, congresswoman... calm down. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.165.0	What...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.166.0	Congresswoman, you don't have the word – you don't have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.167.0	What...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.168.0	Congresswoman... [[Pause.]] Congresswoman, you don't have the word. I have to call him to order. He knows perfectly well who the limits are and who the permitted expressions are and who he didn't, and he just did one; he just directly accused a Member, and they know that this is not allowed either by the Code of Conduct or by the Rules or by the agreements that we have granted to all parliamentary groups. Therefore, I call to order and ask him to withdraw the expression; otherwise, if he returns, I will have to call to order again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.169.0	It seems that yesterday, when Mr. Batet told Mr. Betancor that he was delinquent, you did not remember these agreements. So, either you all live or you all Christians. [[Greetings and strong remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.170.0	I insist, honourable Member, that I have called it to order; if I repeat it again, I shall have to call it to order again. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.171.0	I'm the one who's always... [[remorse of the voice persists]] , I have always had great admiration for Spanish phraseology, and, in fact, a part of my doctoral thesis goes that way. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] If you do not understand it and are able not to understand that, in the context, "or all Moors or all Christians, there is nothing of racism, racism you have it because you consider that"Moors is a derogatory word, which is not. [[Some applause and remorse of voices. Najat Driuech Ben Moussa enters the Session Hall. Strong applause and perlongats.]] I have said: "O you all who are dying or all Christians, and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.172.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.173.0	Well, no... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.174.0	We called for a vote. [[French Ten and Costa ask to speak.]] Mr. Ten, tell me... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Time's up, Congresswoman. He used the time as he felt sorry for him. I invited him, before an expression, that I stopped time, to withdraw it. He didn't do it. I called him to order. Anyway, it went on, it ran out of time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.175.0	For allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.176.0	I'll get back to Mr. Ten. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.177.0	I wanted to see how I have already said that Ciutadans is instrumentalizing culture for linguistic division and confrontation, as we have just seen in the words of Mrs Sierra. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Sierra, time is up. I'll invite you to your bait again, so we can proceed to the vote. [[Najat Driuech Ben Moussa asks to speak.]] Yes, Congresswoman. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.179.0	For allusions, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.180.0	Congresswoman, I'm having a hard time. I think... we can feel all the citizens of this country welcome. Anyway, I'm not answering... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Congresswoman, don't... [[Pause.]] Put your vote to the vote. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.181.0	Separate vote of 13 and 15, which can be taken together, 13 and 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.182.0	13 and 15. All right. [[Eduard Pujol and Bonell ask to speak and the president gives them the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.183.0	Yes; we should clarify whether he finally withdraws or does not remove the infamy from his words. [[Some applause. Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.184.0	Mrs. Segovia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.185.0	To ask for a separate vote of 1, 2, 5 and 13 and 15, which could be voted together, and of 12, for another band; 1, 2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.186.0	See, let's go back to it. One, two...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.187.0	... 5, 13...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.188.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.189.0	...15. And on the 12th, for another gang.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.190.0	All right. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Caula?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.191.0	To ask for a separate vote. For one side, 3 and 7, which could be combined, and for the other, 4, 6, 9, 10, 11 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.192.0	Four, six, nine...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.193.0	10, 11 and 14, that they could also go en bloc.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.194.0	All right. [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp asks to speak.]] Mrs. Sànchez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.195.0	Well, I know it's hard, but I'd like to ask for separate votes from the points – and these can be voted together – 2, 5, 7, 8 and 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.196.0	It'll be easier, I think, for us to vote directly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.197.0	I'm having a hard time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.198.0	...separately all the points. With regard to what Mr Pujol was asking, I already spoke when the Member spoke. I offered him the opportunity to withdraw the expression, otherwise he would call it order. He didn't take it off. In any case, we called it to order and we followed and we continued. And, if he kept the same expression, I already told him that the scream was in order. He didn't take it off – he didn't take it off. We proposed it, and he didn't take it back. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.199.0	Yes, but he insisted on insult, he reiterated it. And so, it's not just a first time, but there's been a second time. He insisted, he persisted. And, therefore, we ask for the correction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.200.0	You have every right to ask for correction. As we have done in any case, I have already warned of calls to order, which, as you know, gives us authority over the Rules and Code of Conduct; that is what we have done with the Member. And if he goes on... and we said it, if he goes on with that expression, we'd apply more slogans to the order, with everything he assumed, which is what we always do in these cases, Congressman. Let's proceed to the vote on all points of the motion separately. Let's start with point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 57 votes to 72, with 3 abstentions. Let's move on to point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 74 against and no abstentions. Let's move on to point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 68 votes to one, with 62 abstentions. Let's move on to point four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Let's move on to point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 75 against and no abstentions. Let's move on to point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 67 against and no abstentions. Let's move on to point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 58 votes to 64, with 10 abstentions. Let's move on to point number nine. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 100 votes in favour, 32 against and no abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved unanimously: 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Vote now point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been rejected by 61 votes to 63, with 8 abstentions. And we vote on 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been rejected by 43 votes to 72, with 17 abstentions. And now we're voting point number 14. The vote begins. Point 14_has been approved by 93 votes to 36, with 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was rejected by 40 votes to 75, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point number 16. The vote begins. This point was approved by 68 votes to 64, with no abstentions. There are no more points in this young man. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of detention centres for foreigners]] [[302-00199/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the Ministry following the Government's inquiry into the situation of detention centres for foreigners. Presented for the Republican Parliamentary Group, to expose it has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.201.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, I see that Mrs. Sierra is not there... Just saying that we already have enough work, all folded up, to fight against second-guessed stigmas because political representatives are using these expressions in their parliament. [[Greetings.]] Currently, there are 280 foreign internment centres in Europe, of which seven – we explained the other day – are in the Spanish State: in Algesires, in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, in Madrid, in Murcia, in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, in Valencia and in Barcelona. Foreign internment centres are an institutional model of racism, along with the model that he has voted for here, and in plenary sessions of various assemblies, the citizenry of Catalonia, which has expressed massively and repeatedly the will to close them. A country, moreover, which has also expressed its will and which has tried to prove it and which has demonstrated it, with all its virtues and its shortcomings. In fact, in the case of the CIS, this same Parliament in 2015 opened a working group from which the conclusions – and I read them textually – are: "Start, as soon as possible, a process that led to the progressive closure of foreign internment centres, 2015; we are in 2020, far from closing these internment centres. Our work must be to work with all these tools that we have at our disposal for a different society, which guarantees the same rights and opportunities for everyone, a cohesive society, inclusive, solidary, according to republican values and human rights, where discrimination by reason of origin, by genera, by creeds or by which it does not fit, neither socially nor, above all, institutionally. We've explained it many times: to open the Apple of the Foreign Law, which is one of the key and concrete elements for which there are many people who see themselves bound to be closed, right? , in foreign internment centres, or in later situations, as we have known with news today, deportations: today Abdallah, a young man married to Annais, a Catalan girl also, has been deported to Morocco after being locked in a foreign internment centre. So, as much as we're ratifying our will to shut down... or, in the case of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, in their electoral programs, which they carry, right? We see that this is not happening and that, along with passing, these centers each time were discovering thanks to entities like Tanquem les CIES, because they are, let's remember, very closed centers, very opaque, that if any representative of this house wants to go to visit him by no means, because they won't open the doors to him. Therefore, one of the things we are asking for in this motion is that we demand or ask the competent authorities that a delegation from this Parliament, with representatives of all these parliamentary groups who want to do so, can enter a foreign internment centre, so they can enter it. It's not possible for now, it's been managed by some entities. While the European states, while the European institutions are increasing the pressure to shield their borders..., and we are also seeing these days in Greece, and we have seen today, as the Government of the Spanish State has decided to send a contingent of civilian guards and national police to Greece, not to help all those people we are seeing these days being offered to the sea, but on the contrary, to help and strengthen the Greek police, who are doing what they are doing... And with that I do not want to hold them accountable for the cent, right? , the Greek police, because all this starts or originates from a game of geopolitics which the European Union decides to play in 2016 with that famous payment, which is now more working to re-edit this agreement with Turkey, and that it was to be hoped, vaguely, that you will decide Mr Erdogan, any day of these, to play with all these people. It is very difficult with five minutes to explain everything that we want to explain, but with this minute that I have to say that with this young man who was going to close the ICES we would not want to stop making self-criticism, the self-criticism that corresponds to us. We know and understand that there are a lot of people who end up at the internment centers of foreigners as a result, many times, of identifications by ethnic profile, it is to say, by skin color or by geographical origin, that do the police cosmos; therefore, also the urban guards or the cosmos of Mossos d'Esquadra. Or, for example, supposed actions to prevent crime, and that after these actions end up with more arrests for people in an irregular situation than with people to get this crime, who end up in foreign internment centers. And we didn't want to stop adding to the key issue of private security. Those people who still have a vagina – I don't know if they're going anywhere from here – to discos sure they'll find themselves, at the entrance, for example, of discos, many times people who can't get in because private security also makes an ethnic profile. Therefore, take a management – and I finish, President –..., we ask to open a study commission to make a general review of all the security, so public...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.202.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.203.0	...with private, Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.204.0	Thank you. To defend the papers presented has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.205.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members, we thank the Republican Group and Deputy Wagensberg for the inquiry and subsequent motion, which gives the opportunity to debate such an enormously important and complex matter as the motion raises and others who, derived from the motion, may also be debated and have been part of Mr Wagensberg's presentation. First of all, to say that we agree with the conception that the right should be formulated for the distinguished Italian jurist Luigi Ferrajoli when he defended that the right should, above all, be the law of the weakest; in a democratic society, this should be the character of the right. And migrants or migrants, indeed, are vulnerable people as often, because of the circumstances in the country of origin as they are, certainly, as well as in the countries of destination. And, of all the people who are migrated, those who are the weakest among the vulnerable are the apathy: from one gang, those who have an irregularly administered legal status, the minor ones who are not accompanied – the minor ones who are not accompanied, Mr. Counsellor – those who are fleeing persecution or violent conflict, environmental catastrophe or humanity. And therefore, from this point of view, to question critically whether the European model or the Spanish model of treatment of irregular immigration is correct from the point of view of the analysis of its deficiencies, of its own layout or design or of its functioning, and to do so from a perspective of guaranteeing rights and with a humane focus, does not necessarily imply questioning the ability of the state to establish requirements for entry, residence or work in the same territory, or to ensure that these forecasts apply. But it does require critical analysis. And this I believe is what we must all try to do, every one of its own positions, but trying to agree at least with some basic criteria, which we believe are also derived from the same internal order and, if not, also from European and international provisions. We have submitted two papers to two points of the case that have the final text of the motion, which proved to be a step or claim, if that is the case, the exceptional character or last resort of the deprivation of liberty, and even more so if it is a precautionary measure to ensure – we do not forget – in a procedure that is administered or complies with offences that have an administered character, a certain sanction, such as expulsion or return, and therefore the need to deepen the use of precautionary measures alternative to internment, that exist in Spanish legislation and that they are certainly, can be said, practically, to explore, because they do not know the outgoing masses in what follows the instructor's or judge's agreement proposes. This would be in line with what the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants said in a 2012 report, which we have to make our conclusions, and, as I said, the internal law already foresees and, therefore, this is what we have proposed, as well as reviewing the model of the CIE according to recommendations from international bodies, also from the Ombudsman for the People, also recommendations that have been made from the Synod of Greuges. And also the need for a common European policy that guarantees legal and secure lives for migrants and a asylum procedure fully aligned with human rights. This, on this occasion, was not possible to agree; the proposed group had an interest in placing the direct lock on the table. That's not what I said in 2015, we understand that it's been five years, but it's not what I said to Parliament's conclusions five years ago, but we think that it's actually been five years and that the group has the whole right to put this on the table. We, this is the layout we've been doing. Now, we want to take advantage of the time we have left to make a warning against the authentic virus that is spreading throughout Europe and the world, which is the porous virus. The virus of por and trying to make Europeans and Europeans feel a sense of threat come from the one that is different, from the stranger, the meth, the barbaric. And in this by the barbaric what we end up discovering is our own barbaric, indeed, Mr. Wagensberg, I must agree with you. At the border of the Mediterranean, also on other external borders of the European Union and on other external borders of developed countries, and certainly these days in the Aegean and on the land borders between Greece and Turkey or between Bulgaria and Turkey, we are effectively discovering our own barbaricness and that we take very much into account all that on this enormous whole of why, there are those who want to irrigate infinite extensions of power. And against this we have to revolt all and all that we have another conception of what it is, because we are always ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.206.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the elements, has the word Ms. Susanna Segovia, on behalf of Catalonia in Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.207.0	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Collecting a little what was said earlier, show from here also the rebuig, the condemnation, the rage, the outrage and the absurdity of the images that we are seeing these days at the border of Greece. And actually ratify from here too that you wouldn't understand anything so that from the Spanish state you're too eager to give support to what's going on there and I think that, despite the contradictions that all of us can have, it's things that we need to be able to say clearly. The mere existence of the Aliens Detention Centers is a difficult anomaly of the state of law, especially considering that the same foreign law provides for alternative measures that can be applied to persons who are awaiting expulsion and that the European Union's legislation obliges states to have a foreign internment center. The current foreign law is an aberration that limits the rights of migrant people, that poses obstacles to their being able to live a life of dignity, right to vote, that locks them in internment centres that end up under pressure, and that places concerts, walls and tanks on the border. From the government of the state, from wherever our group goes, we will fight and fight to absolve the perverse effects of this law. And we say so, if that's why we need to argue with the members of the government right now in the Spanish State, which is the Socialist Party, so we'll do it. It's one of the issues we'll discuss as long as we need to. For now, we would like to make a vote of confidence in the will shown so far for the Minister of Migration, José Luis Escrivá and his team, who has shown some signs of being in the work of changing this situation. Therefore, for our part, this vote of confidence. But if there are ICES, we also remember that they exist because there is the migration law, a migration law that was voted for by the People's Party, the Canarian Coalition and the Convergence and Union. And we also need to keep that in mind, because sometimes we can change our minds or we can change our criteria, but people who voted for this are the people who are now often seeing them say they have to close the IS. So, we have to be all a little bit of a result of the votes we make and the consequences you have for people. We would also like to know..., and would it be a question that we would like to be able to answer from government groups, from the motion that was approved in July 2015, if I don't get it wrong, where the CIE's closure was already being asked, who are the actions that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has done in this sense? We know you don't have the skills to close the CIE, but it's obvious, beyond that, who are the actions that have taken place? Who did they go to? If institutional visits have been requested with the Government, who are those actions that could have been taken from here? The Barcelona Assembly does not have the powers to close the CIE, and I believe that the intentions that were made through administrative resources or resources in which the Assembly could have competence are sufficiently well known, until the point is reached that you have been closed for eight months. After that, therefore, it was not possible to maintain, because, effectively, the CIE is a competence of the State, but we would certainly like to see that, beyond what we can put black on white and with the words, we give and explain, on behalf of the groups of the Government, that on this occasion the Councillor does not have the opportunity to respond and at his time did not do so, he did not explain who were the actions that had been taken by the Government of the Government of Catalonia to advance or to collaborate or to work for the closure of the CIE in Barcelona. We went to see Tanquem's web page, didn't we? that is the platform that is leading the campaign for the closure of these internment centers here in Catalonia and elsewhere, and we wanted to rescue the five things or the six..., if things that ask or suggest that they can be done from the autonomous government to advance to this situation, and I will only list them. They're on the web page, they can dig deeper into it because they give more details and for a matter of time I won't be able to follow it. A first, the policy of protection of the minor migrant or native, which must be thought of in the defense of his rights. The second is: "End discrimination protocols in public education and establish mechanisms that respect and recognize all family realities. The third is: "Access to public sanitation without the need for registration and without linguistic and cultural barriers. The fourth: "Mechanisms of prevention, investigation, control and resolution of racist practices, xenophobics and abuse of power on the part of the security bodies... – we will then enter into the subject of identifications – "...the public bodies, as well as the functioning, which reflect the diversity of the real population to which they represent. I, finally: « Take steps to implement the commitments made by the autonomous institutions such as the Generality for the closure of the CIEs. As I said, a few years ago, it was said that we had to move forward to eliminate all the practice of I.D.-based detentions. So, a report by Iridia, dated 4 September, on the police beating of August 27 on the Barcelona metro, framed in the Draga device, reflected that they had identified themselves to seventy people, of whom twenty-two were detained in order to violate the foreign law. It was said that they were portfoliors, but most of these people had no priors. That's why we're asking ourselves: what was the reason why the stunts were in and out?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.208.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, has the word the Lord Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.209.0	So, very timely this motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of detention centres for foreigners. The opportunity we have seen at the border of Greece with Turkey, which has made us feel ashamed as Europeans, as humans, at the capdavall, but also a certain hypocrisy that I think we should all assume, because what happened this week has been going on for a long time. It's been a long time and a long time. Now we have the same European institutions to support the warm and coastal returns... we understand it, we want to hear it, this will of trust with the new government of the State, but tell you that with this new government there has already been a fact that happens a few times, that there is a return warming up with a whole plane. And that's happened now, with this government. And so, it doesn't have to be written down, we've been trying to get a little bit more into the facts. And the images that we have seen in Lesbos, who have outraged us, of refugees to the sea that they suffer. Listen, they've been producing at the southern border of the Spanish state for 20 years. Mirin, he read a headline of El País : « The PP and PSOE governments have hidden the hot returns since 99. A Civil Guard officer admits to the judge in the Tarajal case "that these practices have been repeated since the construction of the fences. And keep going, keep going. This government to what did you trust, MP, so, what has it done so far? He pushed the size of the tanks, kept the returns warm, guaranteed the impunity of the Civil Guard, which murdered fifteen people who were at sea. In Greece, 15 people murdered? No, the southern border of the Spanish State. (Whispering) And all this denial and violation of human rights needs internment centers to alienate. [[Widow's remorse.]] ICES are essential fish to maintain institutional racism in the Spanish State and are the sole responsibility of the State. Commonly, indeed, he has proposed a point in which he says that Members can visit the CIE of the Free Zone. Okay. But they're already state, they're already state government, they don't have to go on a visit, they have to go to the Council of Ministers and do the job they committed to, as he said in the Faristol today. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And to the young lady there's a second part that seems interesting to us. It's moving from the ICES to which are the State's security bodies. [[Widow's remorse.]] It seems to us that there are two ways to defend the police. The first is to defend it critically, giving medals even for actions that are reprehensible, and ours, knowing that its performance is always better and must always be on the magnifying glass of the executive, the legislature and the judiciary, if necessary. The first of a society that wants a police officer of the 21st century for the 21st century. We'll bet decisively on this second cop. We know that we have a body of moves that we can be proud of, as we saw during the management of the storms of August 17th. A management of that 17th of August that has a lot to see with the judgment that now beats the dome of the Mosses. Certainly, a record for all defendants. But she's also a cop... (Applause.) Yeah. But she's also a perfect cop. We're not doing a Dastis at the BBC. We will not deny evidence when there are images that we see and that cannot pass, because we must insist that there are tools and protocols so that this does not happen, that we can apply and respect them as most members of this thing do. But in the end the police, all the police, are a piece of a society that pours tics and racist forms. Of course, you don't have to tell us. We are a society of rights, open, it is that country with a capital that made the major demonstration in favor of refugees who have seen themselves in Europe. Clearly yes, but there is a structural racism that is configured from an ethnocentric conception to Europe theorized from the 18th century. And that affects all of us, I'm sure it also affects members of the police body, but also among the lawyers, among the launers, among the masters, among the ministers... And there are three ingredients to eradicate this structural racism from our institutions. It's political will, it's media to do so, and it's institutional determination. And President Torra's government is committed to securing all three of them. Do you know why? Because he's an obedient government. If in the future someone is looking to find anything positive at this stage of repression and persecution of policies, he will find only one good thing: a society that, precisely because it has suffered from the violation of essential democratic principles, values and values human rights. No borders. All of them, for everyone. And he'll let us know. And so today, one more time, this Parliament will speak in this sense. All rights, against no one and for all people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.211.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors. Look, Congressman, this young man is a perfect example of demagogicism and populism. It forms part of that campaign of stigmatization that you have continually set up and do against the State Security Forces and Things: National Police, Civil Guard, Squad Movements, towards the work that they carry every day to term and that they vet for our security. There is no basis for our safety to act in an arbitrary manner. Arbitrary? Listen to me, look, they do it based on the rigour of completing and completing the law, the rule, and the norm, and you putting on the lookout the agents who go through every day for our security. Look, it's a huge irresponsibility and a high and an injustice the motion that you present to us today. There's enough to criminalize our police. This young man is a thread of common topics and places that I will tell him: they have nothing to do with our country, Spain, and less with our autonomous community, Catalonia. You demand the closure of ICES and – I will say this – in an irresponsible way from the moment they do not propose an alternative; look, in cases where, for example, a court decrees the expulsion of a person in a regular situation... ICES exist in all the countries of Europe and in Spain, deputy, Spain is no exception. What we cannot claim is that we are following the only country in Europe that does not have this instrument in place in an orderly way and, as it cannot be otherwise, respectful of human rights, immigration, the phenomenon of illegal immigration. Therefore, stop demagogicating, stop distorting reality and do not present Spanish as an exception when referring to CIS, because it is not, honourable Member, it is not so good. Spanish, as in many other things, is not the exception; it is the country, it is the reference, the competitions and the norm. Some of us are already absolutely tired, of so much constant and continuous demonization of our police and our courts, because they always end up putting the judicial sphere in the corner, which, to remind you, are the guarantors of the rights and freedoms of all; and when they all say their own, Member, of all of us. In short, they also guarantee the freedom of our democracy. Miri, when we talk about the police, I'll tell them that thanks to them, to their professionalism, to their vocation, to their rigour complete and to make the law complete, we – and you too, Congressman – live and sleep quiet every day. By the way, the departments of internal affairs... you were talking about the investigation that needs to be done in the police field. It is established in the regulation, on the basis of which the departments of internal matters apply, when we speak of a regulation to which the appropriate discipline applies. But, look, I'm not gonna get in there very often, because we see the Civil Guard and the National Police in a correct and curious way in their development. It is also very doubtful, and saddens us, when the DAI to Catalonia..., more quickly its management will end up adopting a grey form. Look, please, I stopped using also the people who are in this social situation and the mechanisms that are set up at this time. Alternatives, which govern means responsibility, and responsibility is far beyond what you, with this young man, have been trying to claim. Certainly, Mr. Wagensberg, asked to speak of institutional and structural racism, perhaps to speak of the campaign that the Government has launched, "Do not change the language, which speaks of people who by its aspect do not seem Catalan [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , and that Congresswoman Anna Erra, in a shameful and slippery way [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.212.0	Congressman, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.213.0	...was dedicated to defending in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.214.0	...thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.215.0	President, I'm done. Committees, more real work, congressman, common sense and great doses of institutional responsibility. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.216.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the Member of Parliament Nattalia Sánchez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.217.0	Miri, deputy of Ciutadans, I propose a very clear alternative, which is: we open borders, we tank the CIES and we eradicate the institutional racism that all institutions [[applause]] , those of the Spanish State and of all the States of Europe, apply against persons who wish to exercise the right to migrate. Because here we are talking about a question of right, we are talking about a question of the right to live in peace, the right to live. From a criminal law perspective and in terms of punishment, a person cannot be locked up in a prison unless there is a crime or a conviction or a preventive conviction. What happens to migrant people? That for a simple administrative fault they can end up locked and deprived of freedom in a CIE without guarantees, and even more they can end up patenting a forced repatriation. The right of equality is not fulfilled in our country; migrants do not have access to the right in the same condition that persons who do have residence permits or nationals of a global northern country or a European country. Catalonia has seen a synchrony in space and time, a synchrony in life; we coexist but we do not live together, there is a social fracture in our lives and no guarantee of rights. And that the Catalan institutions also perpetuate it. We talk about the ICES, but we also talk about how police bodies perpetuate institutional racism. But also, as we have seen in the past few years, such as those of DGAIA, there are no infant care policies, and the origin of infants prevails, that is, where the infants were born, not their rights as infants. And now... Therefore, we take advantage of this opportunity to give all the support to the blockade for the rights of young migrants in struggle with the UdG, who demand precisely that the institutional racism of all institutions be eradicated, from the Junta de Girona to the Spanish State. I'm done. There are many people who went to work and who went on to travel to Europe. There are also many cases of people who have died in a CIE. For all of them, we are of course going back to supporting this proposal to close the CIS, for Osama, for Osamuyi Aikpitanyi, in Jonathan Sizalim, in Mohamed Abagui, in Samba Martine, Alik Manukyan, in Mohamed Bouderbala, in Marouane Abouobaida and Idrissa Diallo, and all those who have not been able to identify themselves. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] For all of them, what comes to mind is memory, justice and reparation. And obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.218.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.219.0	... we also benefit – I finish – from making a clear condemnation of the policy of letting die, of the necropolitics that we are seeing today on the Greek coast. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.220.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Daniel Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.221.0	Thank you, President. From the seat. We do not share either the background or the form of the motion. In fact, Mr Wagensberg, we are very surprised that you have presented this motion, and the disease that raises you or the doubts raised by the CIE in the Free Zone. I think I could have asked Mr Bosch, who was visiting him with me when we both agreed on Members of the Courts, and I don't remember Mr Bosch leaving the CIE in the Free Zone traumatised. In fact, he was disassembled by many myths with which he entered, and when he came out he saw that what could be visualized in the CIE of the Free Zone was absolutely consistent and consistent with the current legislation. Therefore, Mr Wagensberg, I think it would have been much more opportune for Mr Bosch to have informed him of what is happening in the CIE of the Free Zone, and we would have saved ourselves this motion, which I am also surprised by the approach he has given, because there are so many concepts and so many questions that have nothing to do with each other. Speaking of institutional racism in the CIS, I believe that it is, frankly, to take very lightly the scourge of racism and xenophobia, and we believe that it is wrong to link figures such as the right to asylum or the right of refugees to administrative situations of regular or irregular residence. I believe that mixing this debate does not help at all, I insist, to combat the scourge of racism and xenophobia. In fact, ICES are not an exception in Spain; they exist in more countries of the European Union. In fact, our neighbour France shares ICS as well; or countries that are no longer part of the European Union, like the United Kingdom, also have ICS. Therefore, it is not an exceptional figure of the Kingdom of Spain. We do believe and share that greater economic resources must indeed be given to the CIS, so that people who have to remain inside while their expulsion is being processed can, of course, be in a state of dignity and in human conditions. But from that to linking situations of racism, from that to criminalizing the state's security forces and bodies with situations and episodes of racism, I think it's far away... I think a lot of things have been mixed up here. It is that they have even mixed disco porters with the theme of the ICES. Really, Mr.Wagemberg, I think... you have left me puzzled by your intervention, because, I insist – I insist – little and weak favor makes the fight against xenophobia and racism mix concepts that have nothing to do with it. Therefore, we will not support the motion, because we believe that it does not conform to the reality of what is happening in the ICES of Spain, and, I insist, for any doubt, for any clarification, you can ask Mr Bosch, who will certainly answer you with great pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.222.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word again Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.223.0	Thank you. I now take this turn to greet the various gifts of the 8-M that accompany us today to the step. And I went very fast, because..., impossible to answer everything. Thank Susanna, always, for trying to work folds. Just, a little..., generate a little bit of doubt in what the government is focusing on another band. [[Funnel veils]] , when we are on a Patriot mission, still on the Syrian border with Turkey, helping the Turks ; when there is a contingent of the Civil Guard today going to Greece, to Lesbos, to help the police, or when today they have deported another person. Mr. Castel, there is no illegal immigration, there is irregular immigration, there is no illegal immigration; therefore, we use language well. The best way to defend the police is not their constant and sustained defense of each of their interventions, but is the honest exercise of self-criticism, also, publicly, of analysis, repair and establishment of protocols. You're asking for alternatives. We're asking for protocols. This is an alternative. And, Mr Pedret, I understand what you're saying... The best ally of por, in any case, we believe that they are the policies of the European Union and its states, and that under the excuse, in this case, for example, of the common policy, etcetera, that is very good, but under this horizon that we never go up– we carry, for example, nine years to Syria of war– there is no way to solve a situation for thousands of people, but every time it seems that it is more intriguing. What I know most hard..., and will not give me time to finish it, but I have taken, from the diary of sessions, statements in a vote seeming in this Parliament, in which you in this faristol said that "we must say, and we will vote, that internment, deprivation of liberty, and purely because of the fact of being in an irregular administrative situation, do not marry absolutely with the set of values, etc. Therefore, when we say that the rights are in decline, that there is a danger of rights in decline, we are not talking only about the people who are in our prisons, we are talking exactly about this: that four or five years ago the Socialist Party did not vote with PP or Citizens and today the Socialist Party will not vote against the closure of the foreign internment centre and will do so alongside the People's Party and Citizens. Therefore, this for us is the regression of rights. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.224.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[(Mr Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.) Mr. Pedret?]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.225.0	Allusions, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.226.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.227.0	Very briefly. Mr. Wagensberg, we have also had this occasion, until now, just at the end, and on other occasions, interesting debates in which I believe we have contrasted arguments. [[Widow's remorse.]] And I expected you not to fall into the very easy fallacy by association: coinciding the feeling of the vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.228.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.229.0	...corresponding to the voice of the vote for reasons that they have very little to see, do not equate positions of one party and the other. Because you could talk to him about the position of Esquerra or the PP with the Statute of Catalonia, and it would be as absurd as the fallacy by association that you have just attempted. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.230.0	Is there a separate motion for a vote? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.231.0	Yeah, points 1 and 2, for one band, and points 3a and 6, for the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.232.0	All right. Any more? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So... yes, Mr. Serrano?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.233.0	Yes, President. Separate vote on points 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.234.0	Okay. Let's vote, then, points 1 and 2, first place, points 1 and 2. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were approved by 75 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting now on point 3a–3a. The vote begins. Point 3.a_has been approved by 75 votes to 39, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 92 votes to 39, with no abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 111 votes in favour, against and 20 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The remainder of the motion was approved by 92 votes to 39, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into climate emergence and new waste incineration projects]] [[302-00198/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the climate emergency and the new waste incineration projects, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Call Constituent, to expose it, has the word of the MP Natalia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.235.0	Good afternoon again, in this last young man. First of all, greet the representatives of the Residu Zero platform, integrated by more than forty plataforms and collectors who are ultimately fighting for life. It seemed like you couldn't come in at the end, but luckily we did. Thank you for being here and above all thank you for your persistent struggle, which at the end and end is also our struggle. A struggle that incorporates a look at the essential need to review production and consumption systems, under very basic and common premises. The prevention and change of consideration of residues as resources that may be reintroduced into the cycle of materials. A platform, as I said, that today also accompanies us in the presentation of this motion, because, as we have said in all the conversations that we have had to end up agreeing to the text that we will vote on today, it is a motion that we present to the UPC, but it is not ours, which for us is yours, and therefore we believe it is important that you continue here today. We were also pleased to be able to greet Councillor Damia Calvet, the Councillor of Territories and Sustainability, but unfortunately it is not there. It's not just him, it's just that there's no adviser to the Government of the Generalitat. I'd say it's the only place he's been, and we're also sorry that it's the result of a change we made to the Republican Left, but he didn't guarantee that we could have this debate with enough quality in this sense. As we said when we made the inquiry that resulted in this motion, we put forward this proposal for responsibility and urgency. As you know, the urgency and responsibility for the concern about the intention to incinerate residues in the Municipality of Cercs, in Bergedà, and in June, in the Garrigues, but it is also an urgency and a concern for all the incineration projects in our country. Two projects that would join the incinerators already in existence in the country, and there are many collections of roads and roads that have been struggling for some time to denounce the harmful character of urban waste cream and industrial waste. Residues cannot be considered an element to generate energy, because they are highly harmful. That's just what we're going to tell you. And that, in a climate-emergency context, we cannot allow the opening and expansion of new projects or the expansion of existing ones. We think that waste incineration, as I said, cannot be part of the solution to the energy and climate challenges the world has set. For two reasons: for the hard impact on human health and also for an obvious reason, the highly harmful character of ecosystems, caused by the very emissions of the entire combustion process, followed by fossil fuels or materials that today are incinerated, such as plastics, rubbers, sludges and batches of scrubbers, CDRs, hospital residues, purins, flours, etc. It also meant that the importance on..., the motiu on the harmfulness on human salvation. We know perfectly well that the release of dioxins is highly carcinogenic and highly harmful to people's health. In order to advance towards the zero-residue society, the application of new regulations and effective instruments is necessary, which can reduce waste and associated environmental and health impacts, and above all promote clean production and responsible consumption. The new European standard framework for the circular economy and the practices of a single sun and the legal initiatives as driven by the Illes that define the path we should have followed in Catalonia. And in this young man too, and we'll talk about it in the next intervention, we talked about the Law of Residues, a law that hasn't arrived. We'd love to be able to tell you that up late, but it hasn't arrived. He was one of the main targets of this government. In the first question, in the appearance made by Councillor Calvet at the beginning of the legislature, he committed himself to it, and this law did not go up. I'm done. In a climate-emergency context, we cannot follow installations that are dedicated to cremating residues and generating tones and tones of carbon dioxide, dioxins highly, such as deia, carcinogens. Therefore, three concrete and clear points that are to be seen with the need to expand, to open new incinerators and, above all, to incorporate the necessary dismantling plan and, therefore, to shut down all existing incinerators. I ended up with a very strong record for Xavier Batriu, who unfortunately died in an accident fighting precisely against the power plant that wants to convert, in Cercs, from thermal power plant to waste cream power plant. For him, we know very well that the struggle continues and that, therefore, it will be worth this struggle for salvation and against the climate emergency. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.236.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the papers presented, has the word in first place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, the MP Mònica Palacín. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.237.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Welcome also the members of the ecological entities and plataforms in defense of the territory you are accompanying us today. The climate emergency requires our responsibility and equip us with the essential tools in planning and following just transition criteria. And now we need it as quickly as possible. This moment of today allows us to guide the model in the management of totally inseparable residues from the reptes that, like the country, we have to face towards an ecological transition. We already have some instruments, such as the Energy Transition Law, the National Pact for Industry, the Climate Change Law, which are to develop inseparably the economic fabric of the country and the compromise of all the agents involved in working folds. One claim must not fail to be listened to in order to advance with the maximum consensus and force a model of country that is energy-efficient and sustainable economically and environmentally. We must therefore renew and accelerate the compromise with sustainability and with the improvement of the management of waste, produced for another band, of the production of the offer and the demand for the market, of the consumption and of the responsibility of the administrations in order to minimize and regulate its impact. Now, every second more, more urgent. There's a new legislation that's late – we have to recognize it. For this reason, our papers are also linked, once more, to a new law of residue, with zero residue vision, in a realistic horizon but not far. We want mechanisms that suspend these projects that generate rebuff to the territory, and that we are sure that they run counter to the government's will. But we also want the mark of a long and demanding law of appeal; a law of realistic and clearly regulated recourse to have guarantees that we never find ourselves more with the excuse that, whatever the project is to be handled, private interest is far from environmental and territorial needs. This law is embedded in the first point, thanks to the transaction, and, as I said, it is fit to mark the guide of residue prevention, collection and treatment, and why you will see that the minimized residues come back, in any case, as resources to the market. The transaction of the second point is also important, because we want a regulation that values well the environmental impact of the use of alternative fuels to fossil fuels. That's why we think it's important that we set up a moratorium for authorizations of enlargements, whether it's a waste type or a quantity, and for the use of waste-derived fuels. And, as far as the third point is concerned, we proposed as a strategy – which has not been accepted – that the containment plan should take account of the approach but require realistic reduction of residues of Community legislation, which sets the targets of a maximum of 10_percent of the residues in feedstock for the year 2035. The vote will take place on the closure and dismantling of existing incinerators, which will have the conditions arising from this new law and which will take into account all the agents involved. That, for us, is cool. Also to fix this horitzó they demand realistic. I want to highlight... because for us, too, it's important to make the flag of which end horitzó we want: the zero residue. But it's also important to manage the while in the best way; or else, to manage the way it has to last at the final hour: what do we do and how do we do it while we don't manage the results and while we don't have the new law. And this has to be done by complimenting the resolutions in the European framework on efficiency and environmental sustainability with existing installations, feeling strict in the complimenting of technical parameters, and responsible in the best necessary for the infrastructure of public ownership. And during this time, counsel – unfortunately today is not there – can immediately resolve the commitments made without conditions. Finally, thank you very much and recognize the work that the plataforms do to age for the environmental rights of the territory. Also thank the talks with representatives of trade unions, representatives of the administrations that are responsible for the management of waste and the negotiation of the discussions with the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and the CUP. Thank you, Mrs Sánchez, for the willingness to collect the transactions that we are finally bringing today to vote and that we are better – we believe, we are not sure – at the end of this motion. A young man – to end – who doesn't go against anyone. A young man who is just the way to put us before the lookout, to recognize the mistakes that have had us here and to work together without exclusions for the future of a planet and a balanced and net country, because it is the only possible future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.238.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, I now return to MP Gloria Freixa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.239.0	Let's see. Well, thank you very much, President. Welcome, deputies, deputies. Welcome to the Residu Zero platform, which you are here with and with whom we have been talking a lot these last few days. In the first place, what we would like is to apologize for the absence of Councillor Calvet, because, in the face of the hourly change of this Ple, he could not attend this young man, who was of his interest. Well, first of all, to start with, I'd also like to keep a record for Xavier Batriu, the activist who turned out to be dead on a banner for the Cercs incinerator plant. I, for starters, our proposal. Well, first of all, I would like to say to all of you that I am the daughter of Bergedà, and also the daughter of Calella, hidden and raised in Barcelona, groped, well groped in the territory, people indifferent to everything that can pass out of our capital and well aware that the sensitivities of other parts of the territory are, in reality, those of all, because this cohesion and because this makes us strong and great as the country. And today I'd like to talk about Circles. My ups and downs between Queralt and the Pedraforca always let me see that smoking fireplace, with that terrible smoke that third, that you always asked yourself what I was doing next to that parade. The new thermal power plant ended in 1971 and for fourteen years it cremated only lignite coal from the Berguedà mining shell, until the end of twenty years, which it left behind South African coal. For almost 20 years, Cercs and all its surroundings had to endure some very high, acidic, inclusive emissions of suffering, emissions that were only seen reduced when an environmentalist group – the Green Alternative – filed a complaint against the plant and its director. The process ended in 1985 with the first sentence for ecological crime in the Spanish State. Well, Pep Puig i Boix, the current deputy of Junts for Catalonia, was, as was the founder and member of the Green Alternative, who ended that successful legal battle against one of the country's biggest electrics. [[Greetings.]] And it was thanks to people like in Pep that that fireplace, which to me as a little girl I did because it made a hundred and twenty meters tall and three that horrific smoke, stopped coming out of smoke high toxin. And now, after years, when you pose Circles to Google there comes the word, second place, "Terror. And it's not because of a brilliant idea that someone had to put a new incinerator in the region after years and years of holding a power plant, but because the region of Bergedà, which has already lost the textile and coal, has made a great effort to look for new opportunities that allow us to refer the places of work and regenerate the economy of the area. And one of the most important is tourism, and around the ancient mines there's been a park of terror attractions. If when you go to Google, terror is precisely why they're leaving. The region asks to be considered to generate more occupation, more entrepreneurs, but ask that it not follow any price. We believe that environmental protection must be an integral part of public policies and must be valued together with the economic and social impact on decision-making. That's why we show our firm commitment, and we say it loud and clear: from Juntas to Catalunya we don't want to collect or collect this incinerator project for the region of Berlin. [[Greetings.]] That's why today we won't talk about technicalities or how Catalonia's waste management model will be, because that's what we'll do during the Residue Law processing when technicians and experts come into action. And we will do so, as always, by listening to the citizenry, as has already been done in the process of citizen participation right for the Department of Territory last July, where forty-one opinions came in on which the department is already working and has presented its return. There can be no doubt about our commitment to the environment. The government has decreed the climate emergency and has organized the first climate change summit. A good start to start the transition to a green Catalonia. Today we want to show our commitment to the territory, and especially to Cercs and to Berguedà, and add to the petitions of its thirty-one municipalities and the District Council of Berguedà to ask for this moratorium that will allow us to design the country we want among all; a moratorium... [[applause]] , a moratorium that I do not allow to open new incinerators until in the framework of the Law of Residues, which is to be processed during this first half of 2020– we do not cheat, we are not yet in time–, settles, after listening to everyone, following [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] European directives, the bases of the waste collection and treatment model we want for Catalonia. And I'm done, President. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the first point of this motion, which calls for this moratorium for incinerators until the law is processed; we will also vote in favour of the third point and against the second point, because we believe that this debate must come to an end with the law being processed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.240.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To fix his position, has the word now, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.241.0	Thank you, President. Welcome, all guests. The first thing I wanted to do was express my condolences, on behalf of my group, to the family and friends and companies of Xavier Batriu. The truth is that his accident and his loss are very unfortunate. Now I'm going to comment on the motion. I wanted to point out that in the explanatory statement there has been..., well, the UPC says that the capitalist system is responsible for the exploitation of natural resources. The truth is that it draws my attention to this need to exhibit an ideological identity in order to end up landing in a debate as concrete as the management of waste, waste that occurs because the human being, from the night of time, exploits the natural systems and has caused great losses to the natural heritage. So much so that there are studies that point out that 80_per_cent of the great mammals that died out in North America did so from the arrival of the human being on the continent. And that is prior to capitalism, communism, feudalism or any current or past economic and political system. So the preservation of the natural environment and the climate must be a concern for everyone and be based on evidence. As I said, the exploitation of resources is consistent with the very existence of human beings and their development. This exploitation comes out with agriculture, livestock farming and, with greater intensity, from the industrial revolution. But accompanying this development also develops thought, ethics, culture and science. In short, reason has developed. And that is why we must face the challenges in a reasonable way. Is it reasonable to apply a moratorium on new urban and industrial waste upgrading projects without having their alternative planned? We don't think so. We do not think so because before we put forward such a measure, we must work to minimize the generation of waste; we must be more efficient in the consumption of resources, but also improve in terms of reuse or recycling. From the use of renewable or biodegradable materials from the biosphere rather than the litosphere, things can be done. Do we want to reduce cement consumption? Let's push the construction in wood. It can be done. But if we do not resolve reuse or recycling beforehand, we cannot prevent it from being revalued. We can work to improve revaluation systems. We can improve emission filtering systems to capture volatile particles. But we cannot paralyse these types of projects without having a functioning alternative. If we do not have that alternative before, it is most likely that the waste will end up in landfills, and that means assuming the risk of leaching, contamination of aquifers, rivers, drinking water and the sea. In addition, there is also an increase in the emission of gases such as methane, which are more harmful than CO2. Currently, the alternative to revaluation is landfill. And a landfill is not the solution; it is not in ecological or economic terms, and, in addition, the management of a landfill after its closure continues to have costs in both directions. We do not question the goodwill with which this motion is raised, but whether its expediency. Sometimes the perfect is the enemy of the good. And from Ciutadans we are in favour of incremental improvements, step by step. Of course, we have to move forward with the circular economy, an economy based on a lower consumption of natural and energy resources, based on the reuse of materials, on the use of renewable materials and energies, on the use of recyclable or reusable materials and on neutral emissions of CO2, i.e. emissions that are compensated. In the meantime, what the Government must do is to be rigorous in meeting the conditions laid down in the regulations, and, if necessary, to be revised to make the most demanding. More ambitious public policies must also be developed to move towards an environmentally sustainable economy. But what the Government should not do is generate legal uncertainty, which is what will provoke the motion that has traded with the CUP. And another thing that the Government should not do is to act without due rigour. Look, there are studies that indicate that landfills cause 19 times more CO2 emissions than these same waste being revalued energetically. According to data from the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, 80_percent of emissions from waste management come from landfills. Therefore, we cannot block this energy recovery of waste if we have not deployed a better alternative before. We shall therefore vote against the adoption of this motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.242.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.243.0	Thank you, President. Greeting the plataforms that accompany us; also the union representatives that accompany us this late. I find Mr. Calvet missing, because I wanted him... – I see that there is part of his team, that I also want to say hello to him – I wanted to send him, to Mr. Calvet, that I looked at his answers to the question and, in the master lines, I agree, I wanted to send him this, right? And I understand, I don't know if it's a matter of time... or I can understand, the result of the interventions I've been listening to, his presence isn't here today. In this case, above all in the statement of reasons which has accompanied it, it is to be said, or manifest..., it is to be said to European legislation things that European legislation does not say. And, in parts where they are told things that appear to be said, what they do is a skewed interpretation of European legislation. Mirin, emissions from the energy recovery of waste in Catalonia represent a 0.03_per_cent of the total emissions of greenhouse gases in Catalonia. Data from the Government of Catalonia. In change, emissions of winternacle-effect gases from avocados represent 4.5_per_cent in the 2013-2017 period. Why? So because the main gas that the mouthpieces emit, which is half, has a potential twenty-five times higher than the carbon dioxide. Therefore, the energy value of residues is not assumed, as was stated in the statement of reasons for this motion and in the interventions I have listened to, an increase in the emission of gases if we compare it with the mouthpieces. There is no European legislative text that says that the waste management hierarchy has changed in relation to energy recovery. The hierarchy is that which is from the year 2008, of the marc directive. There is no text in the current European circular economy package that says energy value is no longer waste value. It is also false that metanitization is not valued. In fact, it is the type of valuation that, moreover, promotes the European Commission in its communication on waste and energy of the year 2018, four days ago, to enable both energy valuation and material recycling. There is no European legislative text which also establishes restrictions on co-processing techniques. I'm saying in reference to the second point of this young man, which refers to cements. In fact, the co-process replacing fossil fuels is internationally recognized as an essential way to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and advance towards a circular economy with natural resources. We have also looked at the overcapacity and situation of countries that depend heavily on valuation, incineration, to the European Union, with a view to introducing restrictive measures that reverse this situation. But this is not the case with Catalonia or Spain. It is worth remembering that Catalonia practically ends up with twice as many municipal waste as energy recovery. I still haven't understood, or it's hard to hear... I do understand, huh? , but it's hard to hear, because it's a question of the CDRs – i.e. the fuels derived from the waste, I don't misinterpret myself [[relays]] – respects the use of other fossil fuels – I'm talking about cements – like coal, gas or fuel – fuel – which is the last skid, in this case, of oil, isn't it? Mirin, environmental regulations, in the end, do not provide for the possibility of establishing moratoria, unlike urban regulations. Environmental authorities have a regulated and non-discretionary character, and that's what we should do. And the Law of Residues of Catalonia, which we want us to tend to the zero residue, the one that has to do, basically, from our point of view, is to prevent in origin, to reduce in origin. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, they must have already interpreted – I finish, President – that our position on this motion, as it has been drafted, will be in a negative sense; therefore, a controversial vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.244.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.245.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs... thank you very much to the activists and activists that I am here today and that you have defended for years the struggle because it is no longer generating debris before the urban nuclei. I think we should leave... for the basis of the debate. There are at least two scientific evidences that weigh on this discussion. The first is that incineration is still an ecological problem for our country and for the European Union. Emet CO2 and, therefore, should be replaced by a circular economy that does not cause residues to end up in a mouthpiece or in an incinerator, but that are reused or recycled. And the second is that it's also a public health problem. And from this second, he gets used to talking less, because the climate emergency is on the table in our society, but we'd also have to start accounting for it. Each time there is more scientific evidence of the deaths in the European Union and our country due to problems related to air contamination. And we also need to be ambitious at the time of deploying air quality plans, reviewing our city plans, and reviewing what equipment can and cannot be near urban clusters. Because when a view of socio-economic conflicts emerge from the territory, what we have to ask ourselves is how we have come to this situation, how we have come to incinerate ourselves two hundred meters from a school, an urban nucleus, etc. And I think that this, basically, can be summed up in two questions: there has been poor energy planning supported by the Spanish state. We have thermal power plants at 13_percent of its capacity in the State, thermal power plants in which, little by little, systems of residue cream and energy recovery of residues have been put on the market. And we also had a bad residue planning. We have a waste law that continues to think of the problem of waste management as a problem of waste management and not as a problem of resource management. And that's why, many times, the challenge is more to make the company's waste disappear – to bury them in a mouthpiece or to incinerate them in an incinerator – than to think about how we tank the cycle of the economy. And to this we should add that, in many places, especially in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, there has been an expansionist urban policy that makes what was left on the margins or outside the cities today is on the margins and within the city. And that, besides, it's not just a problem of urban expansion, but a lot of equipment that's on the edge of today's cities, we've got them very close to incinerator focus. And we came here because there was no courageous legislation in the matter of residue. Today we are saying: "The government's commitment is that the first half of the year 2020 we have a law of residues that we need for years. Because all these problems that arise in the territory are problems that they have to see in how we manage the residue today. And, therefore, the point of view is that when we are at a standstill like this, it is to say, when we have infrastructures that cause obvious problems as much contamination as public safety and yet we do not have legislation that allows us to order the management of waste in our country, we must apply the guiding principles in environmental matters such as the precautionary principle and the precautionary principle. And that's why we support the moratorium on projects... on our incineration projects. And we need to be clear about respect: from here we will not get out until we rebuild the hierarchy again in the use of residue and bet on a courageous legislation that remakes a circular economy. And that means, first, to reduce; then, to reuse and, then, to recycle. And he also questions a fundamental element, that the energetic valorization of waste must start not to contemplate an effective policy of valorization. It provides energy, but it does not provide any solution to waste management in our country. And, therefore, the fundamental challenge is: we need to rebuild a law of residues that is brave and that you have for a circular system, and we support a moratorium on new incineration projects because at this impasse the precautionary and preventive principle must prevail. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.246.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of its Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word now Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.247.0	Thank you, President, for positioning us in relation to this... with this young man, right? First of all, we apologize, as has been said, for the Councillor's absence. In fact, we apologize for the absence of the government's conjunction. And, man, I, if I were the counselor of the thing, I would probably also do so that I would not be in the debate and vote of this young man, given the position that they have expressed, precisely, the... the groups that support the government and, more specifically, the councillor's group, that is, the former Convergence, right? (Founding voice) Yeah, he's got a lot, a lot... he's got a lot to see. You've got a lot to see – you've got a lot to see. Because this is a young man who is absolutely full of harm. Absolutely loaded with damage. Ever since the motius presentation, which is our motius, uh... enough to vote against the whole... the whole motius. Simply, the motius exposition. Simply, the first paragraph of the motius presentation. They are the harms to which we are accustomed by certain parties; not by the old Convergence, but by certain parties. What surprises us – or not so much – lately is that the old Convergence also attaches itself to these harms. The curses of capitalism, the exploitation of the workers, the prohibition..., the prohibition always before the promotion. The policy of residue is what it is, not what the man says. That's what it is, that's what the European directive says. The hierarchy of residues is to prevent, to try that it is not generic residues; if they are generated, to try their reuse; if not, their recycling; if not, energy valorization and, if not, their disposal. And what is proposed in the motion is to dismiss energy value. And, therefore, if energy value is disregarded in the measure that they continue to have residues and, therefore, prevention is not total, we are not in zero residue and there is no reuse and there is no recycling, they have to go to elimination, and that is worse than energy value, right? And, therefore, we can't give support to a motion that you ask is a moratorium and a lockdown of all energy valorization installations. Basically because it will not be possible to last it in term. We can be fabs and approve a moratorium, but the reality tells us that this won't be possible. This does not mean that we are still in favour of building plants of these characteristics all the way, but that, if you are a fan, you have to make all the guarantees of health and well-being in the city. Therefore, our group cannot support this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.248.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, in later term, to pronounce on the papers, has the return of the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.249.0	That's why he does the three-point papers very concrete. Certainly, to the party that they have expressed, so that we know, we do not vote for the introductory part; we vote three very concrete points. It was easier, simply, Mr Terrades, to say that he is not in favour of a moratorium and not to seek subterfuges on questions, as the deputy of Ciutadans also raised, on negationism on a scientific evidence, that we are in a climate-emergency context and that the causes of this climate-emergency context have been the economic and productive model of the world that has been mainly in the past few years, that is when we accelerated in this climate-emergency, the capitalist system. But, well, there's nothing to say about harm and there's nothing to say about science. I simply want to use this time to thank the work of the Members with whom we have worked the papers and the transactions. To the MP... to the Gloria, to the Mònica and to Pep, for the work that we have been able to do collectively. I assume that it is not easy for us to vote in the next vote, but it will still be more difficult for you to get ahead of us with the law of prevention and zero residue, because it will involve dealing with large corporations and, precisely, with the extractive elites who have brought us here. Today in the top 5 of industrial plants with major CO2 emissions and with major impact on the environment we have one of the main lobbying, in this sense, like Ciments Molins. So, at the front we have a lot of work to do, and I'm sure that with the agreed work, as we've done in this young man, we can come to great agreement. I'm done. Let no one play to want to confront work places; the working class, with the naïve need to stop the climate emergence and take it on board. Let no one play with these subterfuges and with the vested interests, because we are not talking about this, we will always be at the side of the working class and to guarantee all work places for all people who may be affected by the need to cope with this climate change. So I'm done. Many thanks to all, all, and many thanks to the platform. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.250.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Pause.]] All right. A separate vote has been requested on point 2. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So let's vote for the number two point in the vote. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 42 votes in favour, 87 against and one abstention. It was by separate vote. Mrs. Sànchez? [[Natalia Sánchez Dipp intervenes without using the microphone.]] Reading? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What's the point? Point one? [[Pause.]] So now that we're voting, we're reading. All right. So ask the fourth secretary if she can read point number one. And we'll vote point number 1 and 3 together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.251.0	"The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government of the Generality to establish an urgent moratorium on urban and industrial waste incineration projects, using the legislative instrument that is considered adjunct: decree, accompanying law, modification of sectoral planning in the field of waste, etc. At the same time, dictate the suspension of any ongoing processing until the European Union's objectives of reducing the year 2030 by 40_percent in relation to the year 2019 and the objectives of the Catalan Climate Change Law for the year 2050 are met. [[remorse of the voice]] « as well as the compliment of the European objectives in the field of waste generation, which make reduction, reuse and recycling prevail...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.252.0	Excuse me, he's reading the untransacted version, so the original; that I already agree [[relays]] But it's not the point that will be approved. There is some minor change in the transactions with the Republican Left and Junts group for Catalonia. Excuse me. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.253.0	I'm sorry, I didn't have the deal on my hands. "The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government of the Generality to establish an urgent moratorium on urban and industrial waste incineration projects, using the legislative instrument that is considered adjunct: decree, accompanying law, modification of sectoral planning in the field of waste, etc. At the same time, dictate the suspension of any current processing until the new law on the prevention of Catalan residues, which establishes the procedure for the ordering of residues produced in Catalonia, is approved, on the basis of the European objectives in the field of residues, which prevail the reduction, reuse and recycling in a circular economy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.254.0	All right. We vote, therefore, this point, together with point number 3 of the motion. The vote begins. These two points have been approved by 75 votes in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia to support the Nissan works council]] [[401-00029/12]] Let us now proceed to the reading of an institutional declaration. I pray to the Fourth Secretary, Mrs. Rut Ribas, who reads it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.255.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of support to the Nissan business committee. The Nissan company, which forms part of the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance, the world-wide second-seller of vehicles, is a multinational that manufactures passenger vehicles, to more than commercial vehicles, to the plants of Catalonia, and that occupies three_ thousand workers and workers. During the 2017-2019 period, the finalization of the production of various models has undermined production, which has reduced, therefore, the levels of occupation. For this reason, the year 2019, the direction of the company and the representatives of the workers agreed to a cancellation dispatch that affected six-hundred people. This agreement was signed with the compromise to reorient the plants to us products. In this sense, the most concrete example are the investments agreed for the new painting plant in the Free Zone, with the aim of adapting it to our environmental requirements. These investments count on the aid granted to the multinational for the Generality in order to reduce the economic impact of the investment. Over the past few weeks, and despite the commitments made between the workers' and the multinational's representatives, the decision was announced to end the manufacture of the Mercedes vehicle, which involves a new productive detail. The uncertainties that are generated, the result of an environment of international instability, together with technological and energy changes that affect the automotive sector, place Nissan in Catalonia in a precarious and very critical situation. Moreover, the company has to face the prospects of transformation of the automotive sector in Catalonia, which inexorably require the reduction of CO2 emissions. Thus, the negative impact of drastic decisions on Nissan will have a direct impact on the entire fleet of suppliers and auxiliary companies, which, together, bring together more than twenty-thousand workers in the automotive sector. The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its support to the workers and workers of Nissan before the uncertainty of the future of the different plants and asks that Nissan maintain the base of its industrial operations in Catalonia, seeking solutions to ensure the continuity of the production of vehicles to the Free Zone. On the other hand, the Catalonian Parliament asks that the social part participate actively in the negotiation between governments and the direction of the enterprise, with the explicit intention of trying to find a satisfactory solution, to avoid the loss of work places and to complete the agreements envisaged, recognize the great effort that the workers and the workers have made in recent years. Palau del Parlament, March 5, 2020. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.256.0	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Yes, Congressman Gibert, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.257.0	I wanted to ask for the word because we regret that it was possible to do it here and today, without being able to count with Nissan workers at the rostrum, who were invited, because they are stuck at the door of Parliament and many times they have not been able to reach here at the door many different demonstrations and today, which was an important day, they have not been able to come with us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-03-05-5002.258.0	All right. Thank you, Congressman. [[Condol demonstration for the death of three citizens in an accident in the Caucasus]] Before I finish, let me lament on behalf of the chamber, surely, the death of three Catalan citizens yesterday in a mountain accident in the Caucasus, three public servants, and express condolences to the family, friends and companions of the three malaurous citizens who died in this mountain accident. Let's raise the session. Thank you very much.
