ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Before resuming the session, let me inform you that different parliamentary groups – in fact, three parliamentary groups and a subgroup – have called for an alteration of the order of the day, corresponding to empowering or delegating the Health Commission so that it has full legislative capacity to approve, if necessary, the bill to restore the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Catalan Health Institute and the proposal for a law on the public health service for oral health and the creation of the Children's Dental Care Programme in Catalonia. These changes to the agenda will be voted today with the set of questions that we will be voting on at the end of this morning's meeting. I, therefore, calculate that around three in the afternoon. We are now opening the telematic voting period for this alteration of the order of the day, which, possibly, if approved, would debate the coming divendres. Okay? [[Pause.]] All right, a little bit informed of this, let's go to the oral questions to the government. [[Question to the Government about the management of Covid-19's buds]] [[310-00365/12]] And the first question is about the management of Covid-19's buds, and the formula, on behalf of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Puem, Mrs Marta Ribas' deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Do you recognize us today that, with regard to the prevention and approach of new coronavirus outbreaks, have they gone late and poorly?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.3.0	To answer the question, you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.4.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselors, president, councillor. So if you could come to the meeting that we organized with the different parliamentary groups the other day to explain everything we've been planning these weeks and months, so that we could have a whole system in the network prepared to respond to these buds, you could have that information. But when you do, I'm the one who gives it to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.5.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.6.0	Counselor, the information was also held by him. And the information, if any, that confirms us is that what's now going on is late and bad. They haven't acted in time, they haven't acted in advance. They are concerned about the shortcomings that have been demonstrated, that we do not only possess them as manifestos, they do not only pose them as manifestos by the other parliamentary groups; they pose them as manifestos, every day, experts on this subject, with interviews, with articles and with various interventions, that pose them as manifestos that have failed the tracking system, that has been insufficient and uncoordinated with the rest of the system. That the labor inspection failed. That there hasn't been a real plan of rebounds. That, two days ago, we didn't have public health secretaries either. That the communication was bad – even, contradictory. The last few days, divenders, announced the recommendation not to leave the house to the inhabitants of Barcelona and the metropolitan municipalities of the urban continuum. And the sun came out of us Mr. Jacobo Mendioroz said nothing happened to go to second residences. They have the local world that burns for the complainers, because they have not coordinated it as a calibre; but, moreover, they have delegated responsibilities that do not approach them. After months of criticizing what the State was doing, and ensuring that from here it would do much better, it is, as a minimum, disappointing. Political leadership has been lacking, technical scientific leadership has been lacking. Nor has there been the resources needed or well tuned, well focused. To end it, there has not been any unity – to begin with, in the government – nor the humility of admitting that they were not prepared and, therefore, asking for help. Or, with the least, admit it when you'd get it. Our feeling, and that of a lot of experts and a lot of citizens, is that until now we have not been prepared to face the rebounds. And worry, if we're still not ready. The later phase of the descalation was not used to prepare the system as a calibre, to detect and stop rebounds in time. And so we are, we have a difficult situation and can go worse. I can continue to appeal to everyone's individual and collective responsibility. We notice that, too. But also, and to begin with, the responsibility on the part of the government in what you correspond to them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the greeting counselor has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.8.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, all we're using today is because it's been working and planned for weeks – for weeks. Therefore, to increase the diagnostic capability that we have at thirty-thousand day PCR tests, which enable us to enable all possible circuits, so, more so, to start testing more intensively now, not just those contacts that belong to buds or that belong to risk and vulnerable groups, as our protocol establishes– much wider than that of the Spanish State–, but to be able to extend this to as many contacts as possible. Why? To make an active search for cases of those people who are still asymptomatic. And we'll apply all that here. And, in fact, we are already doing so in some areas of our country, such as the "South Metro", the Hospital. Identifying contacts, this is the key. And that's why we want to increase the number of contacts, so our social activity is much higher. And that's why we put Covid managers in primary care, side by side with primary care teams, because where the case is still being suspected, we're going out this time to be able to detect contacts and follow it up. But if we don't do this with collaboration, with cooperation, that's what we ask all the administrations. And that's what I'm asking, too, this Parliament. All the collaboration. Arriving at all the citizens, from the most vulnerable until they can follow us, every day, in these plenary sessions in Parliament – which is not usually people, too, I say – is also the responsibility of all, who are representatives of the citizens. And that's why we always work together with the gatherings. I whenever they want to come out now. Every time they fly out, they come out now. If it doesn't come out now, it's because they've also decided, together, to go out in advance and out in their own. Prevention is absolutely important, and that is why we work, in the business sphere, with all sectoral plans and, obviously, with all contingency plans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the health situation in Catalonia]] [[310-00371/12]] The next question is about the health situation in Catalonia, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.10.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsel Vergés, you know that Ciutadans, from the first day of the pandemic, from the first day, has been your hand. Since the first day we have made proposals to you, we have been announcing questions that were better and we have been loyal to your government. In this sense, we have approved their decrees, we have been working on everything that has been needed to improve the pandemic. Arriving at this point, you know perfectly well that the professionals are absolutely exhausted; they wanted holidays and now, unfortunately, they have seen how you have lost control of the pandemic. You had to guarantee two fundamental questions. One, professional guarantors are in the best condition, and that's obvious he didn't do it. And two – and it is no less – you had to guarantee traceability, follow-up of contacts in Catalonia. From this scot, too, with this same loyalty, I told him that allocating 18_million euros to a private clean-up company was a mistake. And, unfortunately, I was right. You have not guaranteed citizens the follow-up of cases. And now this will pay for all of Catalonia. So, now that this second one's coming up, counsel, you're looking really good, do you think it's the best thing to be in front of the council, before this possible second epidemic?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.11.0	To answer the question, you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.12.0	All right, thank you, President. Deputy: so yes, you have always been the hand of this Parliament. And that's what I appreciate. Despite this, all the collaboration we need, which is with all the administrations, so we don't find their group with much representation in many places to be able to collaborate more. That said, always, we always try to work together. And that's why many of the things that you said in this Parliament, as well as strengthening primary care, we've done since the first moment. And we didn't do it like we did in Andalusia, that we have the same plan as you do, so every year, we just reinforced the plan, more than doubling the amount of money we had, more than doubling the number of professionals and feeling there, with reinforcements, where vulnerable people are to be found. And, of course, there must be growing volumes of people. This is acting; this is acting with prevention, anticipating what will come. Anticipating us to an estuary that must be complex and to a lateness that we are preparing. And, of course, we are preparing, taking health professionals very much into account.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.13.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.14.0	I wonder what it is, easy to do politics. You, when you don't know what to answer, look at Andalusia. And against Madrid you're always more comfortable. You had all the skills of salvation and you had to exercise them. And now all Catalans are at risk, Counselor. You had to ensure that contacts in Catalonia did not leave cities where there were many cases. And now we have an epidemic in Barcelona that you have absolutely no people controlled. And for that reason, you should resign. We know that today you are still looking for students to make this tracing, to make these contact studies. You're not after mistakes. And you, in contradiction, did not get ready for this second pandemic. He has completely lost control of the situation in Catalonia, generating a lack of confidence and brutal insecurity. For this reason, he will advise, before they arrive worse, that you know that it is possible for them to arrive, you should go away. You should resign, you should take a step to the side. And if not, Mr. Torra would have to stop. We're still in time to save lives and people. And before a terrible situation, as you can get, above all, knowing that you have lost control, also in the city of Barcelona, you should leave. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.16.0	Look, Congressman, I'm very comfortable with the work we've been doing. First, he warned. This is the first one. Prioritization of vulnerable people; 600,000 people have our country that we consider fragile before the Covid. And we must appeal to them. From primary attention, it's a first step. The Residence Contingencies Plan, as presented, explained to the citizen. The sectoral plans, worked for the different departments of the Government of Catalonia, with each of its sectors, prepared. Because to the people and to the different economic and social sectors of our country we explained clearly: we will have to live with the virus for a long time. And, therefore, we prepare each other for this. The work plans, worked with the business world, agreed, and, moreover, with an agreement with the Department of Work to do joint inspections, from Labour and Public Health, to companies. Not just in case they do it badly and punish, but with the will of this prevention, and that it is possible to do well and protect the workers of our country. Four-month stock on individual protection equipment; activity divisions between Covid and not Covid. To the citizenry, clear messages: distance, hands, masks, no agglomerations and socialize to the maximum in those living bottles. Coordination and cooperation. Coordination and cooperation. Increased diagnostic capacity and follow-up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the lack of planning and mitjans in managing the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[310-00374/12]] The next question is about the lack of planning and mediums in the management of the crisis of the Covid-19, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.18.0	Good morning, all of you. He will advise, before the outbreak or resurgence of the Covid-19, his government, his department, you yourself, are having a behavior that causes us confusion for the contradictory messages that you are moving, and that is not responding to the needs that the country has at the present time of this health crisis. Look, we're setting him an example that you know better than anyone. If we have a reality like Segria, if they don't activate until mid-June, when we already know about May 23rd of the first shoot, obviously, there's something that's not going well. You, at times, are also moving a speech where centrality is the individual responsibility to respond to the health crisis. And we tell them: they must accompany, necessarily, this discourse of the right collectivities. This is neither an individual resolution nor a transfer of individual responsibility to Catalans and Catalans. This is because there is a government that has a proposal for collective rights. We have three proposals in the form of three questions. The first, she would advise: will we have a reality for which, at the ICS and the primary, two thousand trackers and trackers will be incorporated on their own days? We don't ask him five hundred, and we don't ask him with a subcontract. Second question, counsel: can you assure us that in the next few days there will be results of PCRs in twenty-four hours and relationship with contacts in the next twenty-four hours? And the next question, Counselor: in relation to those points in the country where there are some higher levels of positivity in the Covid-19 shootout, can we have the peace of mind that there will be massive PCR tests? And we're not asking you about thirty thousand, in abstract, tests; what we're asking you is massive tests in those areas. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.20.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, you know that messages, when you try to find a balance between a non-closed world and where we don't want to confine people to home, because it's not that, the object, or shut down economic activities, keep a pandemic under control, we'll have to go finding all these balances, and that's complex. I demand here that we all help each other, in this, because it is very easy to have a clear message when you are telling people that tanks at home – it is very easy. And we don't want to ban anything. We want all of us to learn how to live with this pandemic, and when we put the transmission into a certain place, we can act in this determined place, we lower the tension, above all social activity, so that we can carry the epidemic for months, because he will be here living with us for months. That said, we'll bring in the people you need and where you need them, all the way. And I don't think we need to have a debate here on how many we need. Tracking is a long process that takes place from every gang, and therefore from primary care, hospitals, call centers, epidemiologic surveillance services – we don't let them, which are the main part of Public Health that carries the epidemiology – we're doing all the reinforcements and doing all the things we need. Actually, we've done it all these weeks. And we want to act, too, as you said, to run out of time. Time's right on this. So let's start acting already from the suspected case; don't know that we already know that it's positive, but from the suspected case, acting to identify, raise all their contacts. And, above all, let us all also help the people understand that we have to complete the entourage, and that, although we try to contact, if they come out negative, the quarantines will continue to do; they will continue to do so because they will not be successful. So, let's deal with the experts, who tell us that they're proof and that they want to tell all the scribbles.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.21.0	There's a second deputy back. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.22.0	Look, Counselor, you don't answer us with the specific questions we ask you, but we do make proposals in relation to what you were asking us. You were talking about balance, but the only one we have is this speech and this transfer, that of individual responsibility. And we, this individual responsibility, want to accompany you with right collections. You speak of distance, and we say that distance must also be accompanied by proximity, that of primary care. You're talking about hands, and we're talking about hands – which we also think needs to be done – we're talking about heads – and CAPs – which means two things: for one band, planning, and, for another band, also, primary care centers. I'll take it. At our mask, we accompanied him by Massive PCRs. He's covering our faces, but we can see what the reality is. Will you answer me, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.24.0	Oh, so much! I answer everything. In fact, planning is there, and we were able to explain it perfectly, from all walks of life, how we would act in the network. That is to say, it does not take place from one place, in this vigilance of the pandemic, in this vigilance Covid, with a cross-sectional response unit that connects well that is the public health policies with which the care part is also. And among all of us we have a strong health system that can help us a lot, in this, and that's why we strengthen primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the local world]] [[310-00366/12]] The next question is about the local world, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Marta Moreta. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the assemblies have been on the front line, tirelessly, giving what they had and what they did not, constantly collaborating, but they have found themselves with a government that has not accompanied them, and that has been more likely to seek guilt than to help them. Mayors and mayors are upset. First they were the conca d'Odena; then, the Segria, and, now, Barcelona and the metropolitan area. Everyone, absolutely everyone, is concerned about the poor management of the Health Department, the follow-up of the positives and their confinements. The measures taken are inconsistent and require leadership, transparency and clarity. Have knowledge – that they do not have – of reliable data on the situation of the pandemic in the municipalities affected by the new outbreaks. It may be that the joints know and have the certainty that the tracking and tracking mechanisms of the positions and contacts work, and it is found that today there are not enough resources for this follow-up and the information and communication with the locals is null and void. The assemblies have offered their resources and staff to follow up on detected cases and avoid community transmissions. Counselor, why isn't he coordinating daily with the joints? Why aren't data facilitated? Why don't they secure sufficient resources to follow up on cases? Why do you refuse the resources you offer when you don't have them?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.27.0	To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.28.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Member, Members of Parliament. Miri, let's not share in absolute the analysis you've made of what this government's relationship to the local world is. And I say to you, therefore, this councillor, who has been during all these times meeting weekly with all the institutions of the local world, together, with mayors, mayors, also with the associations of the municipalities of our country, with the presidents of the parliaments... And, therefore, this work, this follow-up, this collaboration of this council and of this council has been completed since the first moment of the management of this pandemic. And we wanted to do this follow-up. I said it and I said it the other day in the question that you also asked me in this Parliament, and I said it out of which was, therefore, the will, the work and the relationship with the local world, and I also replied that from the government of the Generality and from the first moment we want as allies of the local world. And it's in that sense that we're working. And we want to be allies in the development of the municipalities and, therefore, in the best of people's lives, but we are also and we wanted to be in this pandemic management. Because the gatherings are certain that they have been at the front line fighting this pandemic, accompanying their citizens, and from this department and from the Government of the Generality we have been at the side of our mayors and mayors, we have been at the side of our municipalities to accompany them also in this management.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.29.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.30.0	Locals demand clarification and nuance of the resolution and effective measures without punishing certain cultural and sports sectors that comply scrupulously with the regulations. We agree that it is necessary to reduce social activity, but not as they do, by enclosing controlled spaces and protocols and maintaining uncontrolled spaces such as terraces or platges, claiming, moreover, that control is done by the joints. With what mechanisms do they think they can control infection and positive follow-up? How many resources do they have for tracking? Why don't they explain it to the joints? Why did they not accept the offer of co-responsibility offered by the thirteen metropolitan areas? Why did they not accept the Metropolity Process, which has now become a metropolity council without decision-making capacity and to raise doubts? Mayors and mayors assume their responsibilities. You only know how to move it to the other sides of the campaign, and I would listen to them a lot, because for a lot of you to say that it meets every day with the gatherings, just to listen to the news on television, read the newspapers, or listen to the same mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.31.0	Thank you. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.32.0	Yes, thank you, President. Miri, honourable Member, the Lleida Procicate was such that it was able to manage the Lleida broth at the time of this crisis, and as soon as the measures were taken to work the broth throughout the metropolitan area, it was this Metropolity Procicate. It has been working since the first moment with the thirteen mayors and mayors who are part of these affected municipalities for this broth that we are patenting here. And we want there to be some space where it can be moved, certainly, information that perhaps at the time it had not been moved or had not flowed enough, that information, or perhaps not with very clear data. And, therefore, we have taken this turn, and through these structures, this Metropolity Process, so, you can transfer the information, you can work in a coordinated way, you can work from institutional collaboration; and this is the will of this government. And that didn't just stay here with this Lleida Process, or this Metropolis Process. To advance us to what may pass, to advance us to possible buds that may become, because the reality is, and the Councillor of Salvation has said..., we must be able to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.33.0	Counselor, time is running out. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about support policies for the local world]] [[310-00368/12]] The next question, on support policies for the local world, is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Anna Erra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.34.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, President, Councillors. Councilwoman Budó, today I would like to talk about the local world and the PUOSC. We all know that local administration is what we are in front of and that we have more contact with our lives and our lives, and we know the importance of PUOSC. The PUOSC is a key tool for development and for making many investments that we want to make in our municipalities can be financed, and for this reason we know of this importance. The tool, this tool that is the PUOSC... We are very happy that with the municipalities we know that from the government you want to inject again, so, this project that, if we are clear, from 2012 was not possible. We are all clear that in the municipal assumptions this liquidity injection will be and is very welcome. And, plus, one year we know that our assumptions as a group are in a complicated situation, since many new needs have been generated in the face of this pandemic, and we know that this will be a good injection of money. Because we all know that the PUOSC has, above all, two finalities. First: inject resources into the local world. And the other, also very important: it is a tool that helps us to rebalance territory. A line of government that has a lot present above all in the project and in the strategy you've been thinking about with the country alive. Moreover, we know that this year will still be more important, the PUOSC, after what we have found with the proposal made to us by the Spanish Government, than after many petitions, requests, motions, all the municipal world shortly before the State, that we left at these times so difficult to serve our money, the money of our citizens and that the assemblies have done very well their work, we find that now they want to stay. Honestly, an unjust and incomprehensible decision. For all this, counsel, and in front of this panorama, and above all acknowledgment that the government is on the side of the local world, how does the subject of PUOSC advance and how will this tool affect our country? And also, before I answer me, I would like – as I have possession of the word now – to give all my support as Junts for Catalonia to our companion Laura Borràs, who today is still painting this repression that is persecuting him. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.35.0	To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.36.0	Thank you, President. President, Congresswoman. Miri, from the Government of Catalonia, and they understand, therefore, the reality and the import of the local world, and I link with my previous intervention, we are centered at this moment in all that is the best or accompanying in the management of this health crisis, and therefore not only the Lleida Process and the Metropolity Process, but also advancing in reality, so we are the Procicates of the territory so that there is a broth already produced this organ constituted and from the first moment we can work from the hand of the local world. From here, therefore, another important tool, he said, was our willingness to improve the lives of the citizens of our country, of the municipalities, and, therefore, to accompany them also with all that is the reversal to make all the better in the necessary equipment and infrastructure. And it is for this reason, therefore, that we will be able to regain this tool of economic cooperation between the Government of the Generality and the local world: the PUOSC, right? A PUOSC, which certainly has already been able to make the resolution in guany, this month has been able to sign the provisional resolution, a PUOSC that will allow us to create infrastructures and new equipment in the municipalities of our country, which balances, as you said, the territory, and which finances actions that would sometimes be difficult, therefore, to be able to address them, and also, as I said, that directly affects the quality of life of all people. And, if I may, so, you were asking how you're advancing this from PUOSC. So look, with this resolution, I'll tell you that, for example, in Central Catalonia, huh? – starting in its area – almost EUR 36 million has been approved for its municipalities. Or to Girona's vegueria, with a little more than 50_million euros, or to Barcelona, with 20_million_i_mig euros. And if we go to Lleida, then we find ourselves at 48_million euros, and to the Upper Pyrenees and Aran there are almost 32_million euros, which go to those territories. I, finally, to Camp Tarragona, 24_million_i_mig euros, and to the Lands of the Hebrews, 12_million_i_mig. In this way, we, with this tool..., and from the hand of a very important tool, which is the Strategy of territorial dynamism« Living country, we are determined so that we can generate opportunities through a bilateral relationship, a stable and permanent relationship with the local world. Because, look, while other administrations, like the Government of the Spanish State, use the joints as if they were their bank, in accounts dealing with the demands of the local world regarding the use of its surplus and the repeal of the LRSAL, to the Generalitat de Catalunya we work to be an ally of the local world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question on the evidence of access to the 2020 university]] [[310-00367/12]] The next question is about the tests of access to the university of 2020, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mònica Sales. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.38.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, it's obvious that this pandemic that we're still suffering has completely altered our day-to-day lives, and one of the most worrying and worrying affects us is how it will affect and affect the education of our infants and young people. In this sense, it was especially important to take care of the impact on second-class baccalaureate students, since it is a course that involves the end of a stage of a lot of nerves and stress. Undoubtedly, university entrance tests, PAUs, are a quote that all baccalaureate students have very present for what it implies for their future, and it was essential to ensure that they could complete their training and hard to complete the test in the most normal way possible. Just two weeks ago we saw that these tests were finally able to be carried out, despite making them in a regular time like July and in some conditions of everything unpublished. That is to say that, for which it was possible to observe and listen to many of the students who had done these tests, the PAU developed in a way very close to normality, and this should be appreciated, and so we have done since this parliamentary group in this Parliament..., the civics and the responsibility of all the students to adapt to all the security measures. But I would also like to thank you for a very important planning and adaptation of your department, the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia and the Coordinating Committee of the PAU. She would like to thank him for his leadership in these complex moments, and we ask him to explain to us the measures taken by his department to ensure that the PAUs are able to be effective, and also to know how the usual procedure has changed to allow the maximum normality possible in such an atypical situation. In short, counsel, we would like to know what the balance of UAPs are, at these exceptional circumstances in which they were to be celebrated. And, if I may, asked the question, I would also like to add to this show of support for MP Erra to our fellow MP Laura Borràs, a victim more of the persecution for political ideas. And we all have before us that repression can be worn many ways, but that, wearing the dress you wear, it's repression. He's got to find us together. You can't forget it and you can profile us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.39.0	To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.40.0	Thank you, President; President, Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Members. Member of Parliament, indeed, the realization of university access tests is always a challenge, a challenge of logistics and organization that, moreover, this time was increased by the fact that many students came from months of confinement, by the fact that universities too had suffered from these months of confinement. You pointed this out: since the leadership of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, the first one we took into account was the clarity, very clear, in the information we gave. First in the days: it is established, in the first place, from 7 to 9 July. Then it was estimated, so that the students were at least as long as possible in the classrooms, so we extended it one day more, in this, we extended it until July 10th. And then also very clear in the contents of the evidence. It was decided not to delete material, but to make optional assignments more flexible. A lot of clarity also in all the protocols to follow, that is, in the way these tests are done, preserving the security gaps, also with the use of masks, that with approval, with permission of the Process, on July 7th it was agreed that the students could remove the mask while making the exam a time-secure to the table; nor do they present themselves there, obviously, if they had symptoms, and, obviously, the whole subject of hand hygiene. What is the result, and what are we very satisfied with? So we've had a record of students enrolled in these tests, about 39.900, a 15_per_cent more than the previous year. Also with an increase of his– from here, to thank the Department of Education for his collaboration–, we went from his to sixty-three, and also the name of courts, huh? We had 165 courts in 2019 and we moved to 216 courts. Therefore, I attach myself to the thanks to the Interuniversity Council, to the organizing committee, to the evaluators, to so many evaluators and coordinators in Catalonia; also to all the students for their civics, for the civics demonstrated, therefore, that these tests, while being in an almost extraordinary context..., were characterized by this normality and success in their outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.41.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the effects of the economic and social crisis on persons benefiting from benefits]] [[310-00369/12]] The next question is about the effects of the economic and social crisis on persons benefiting from benefits, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.42.0	Well, thank you, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies. Counselor El Homrani, ERTOs have been one of the options that companies have used to minimize the economic costs of the Covid-19, and also to avoid possible definite closures. With official data of the Observers of the Work i Model Productiu, dated '1 July 2020, to Catalonia had presented 98,137 ERTOs, which have affected 727,159 workers and workers. In view of the fact that it was obvious to everyone that they would arrive at SEPE in order to be able to take up this temporary situation, we have seen and proved that the State Public Employment Service did not adapt its structures, did not contract more effectively, nor did it enable more lines of attention. This foresight and organization of the SEPE has consequences that are entirely predictable. Unfortunately, they are entirely predictable: workers and workers who do not cover since they have been included in the ERTOS, workers and workers who, even though they have left the ERTO, continue to charge, workers and workers who have children in charge and who cover far less than they were looking for, workers and workers who are collecting a symbolic cup, workers and workers who are even charging twice as much as they were looking for. They are very few – very few – those who have not suffered from any type of incidence. Therefore, before all this situation, the unions have also exposed and denounced the lack of effectiveness to the SEPE. Lack of staff, lack of computer equipment and computer systems of the offices, errors sent by companies and gestures can give an explanation of these facts. In two years the SEPE template has been reduced by 30_per_cent, and of those still working, 15_per_cent are sixty or more years old. In the face of this deplorable situation of thousands of workers and workers, what is the value of their advice? And what actions had to be completed during the SEPE's collapse and inopportunity? What, counselor, is the current situation of these workers and workers, according to your information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the advisor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.44.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, deputies, deputies. Congressman, you explained it clearly. We have had and are having a very complex situation for hundreds of thousands of workers in this country. A situation that can be understood in the first moment, but that is not understandable to these July heights that is maintained; situations that are giving uncertainty, that are generating tensions to families and that are generating a situation in which you have a right that you cannot exercise. And what's more worrying: there was no transparency in the data. For so much that is said now that there is no problem, all the deputies who are in this House, all the citizens who are listening to us have either a relative or a friend or a acquaintance who has suffered any of the situations that you explained: that he has not paid or that he has paid it late, that he has paid a sum that is not close to him, that he has been disaffected by an ERT and has received his name and service, that he does not know how to return these amounts and that he has not received the amount that is close to him. And that's still a woman. And I'm saying it with this strength, because everyone knows someone, family, friend, company, sees that it affects this situation. And this lack of transparency is definitely the main problem, because we've placed it on more than two occasions. All the support of the SOC, because of the director of the SOC, because of my secretary, I directly with the minister, and there was no willingness to work together. And I think, in this sense, we need to learn some mistakes and we can't give this situation and we need clear data. The unions have set it up, they have set it up in many quarters for all the workers and workers, and we need to make a change in this reading. Because the frustration that the SOC has, which has almost reached half a million tricks since the pandemic started, and that more than 50_per_cent was about the performance of the twilight, which could not be managed, is unfortunate. And that's why we say, if you can't do this support in passive policies, you can transfer them to us and take care of the SOC directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about economic resources to address the consequences of the pandemic]] [[310-00370/12]] The next question is about the economic resources to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Marc Sanglas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.46.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, Counselors, Honourable Vice-President. We find ourselves in a scene of economic recession as a result of this health emergency, which makes it necessary for administrations to inject all possible resources, all resources into their abyss in order to accelerate economic recovery and avoid entering into a structural crisis. In this sense, there is broad consensus at the level, let's say, of economists and at the level of different forces that the response to this crisis cannot be the same as the year 2008. It was a crisis that brought us to a containment scene, and we understand that this isn't the exit. In the last five years, the pool of local entities, assemblies, parliaments, local councils have managed to reduce the debt scenario, have been saved for 3,000_million euros, in the case of Catalan administrations. They are resources that, let's say, from the various standards required for the Spanish government and thanks to a good management element, the assemblies have dyed and managed to alleviate. It's been a long time since some mayors have been demanding for some time, because the economic situation so makes it possible, that these resources can be allocated to various policies. The various Spanish governments have maintained a position of closure. They didn't want the joints to have these resources at their disposal. Moreover, the current parties that govern the Spanish State have made active campaigns to make this possible. It's true that a few days ago they made some changes, and now they're presenting us with another one; another one that's completely inexhaustible. It's a matter of the state's banking joints, leaving their money to change to be able to dispose of these resources. And that, rather than helping the gatherings, what seems to us to be an exercise, let's just say, of a certain coercion. This proposal, made for the Spanish Government, does not count on the support of the Catalan Association of Municipalities, nor the Federation of Municipalities, nor of the same FEMP. Therefore, from this point of view, it seems to us that it is a bad position and what we demand is the release of resources. What we would like to know, Mr Vice-President, is what measures you think will apply to the assemblies so that they can have resources to deal with the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Illustrious Member, the economic impact of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 will be of great abast. It will be a great bust and needs, precisely, as you said, the greatest mobilization of public resources of the past few years. We are fully committed to the Government of Catalonia, and we also want them to be fully compromised and to have the resources to do so by all the Catalan administrations, as well as the assemblies. As you said, there are 3,000 million euros that at these times are joints, that they have in the banks, but they cannot be served because of the rule of spending. The Spanish government, from months ago, from the month of April, to the president and to me, tells us that they will fix it, that they will be able to dispose of these resources, the assemblies. We're at the end of July and it hasn't worked out yet. The proposal that you have known, you have said, is absolutely inexhaustible. Basically, it is summarized in that the assemblies give their money, which are theirs, from their citizens, to the State, and the State will return them and leave them at least because they can take measurements. There's no sense in it. And it went absolutely in line with the efforts we are making in the past few days and weeks to mobilize the bulk of resources. We must also put on the table the need for the Government of Catalonia to have a deficit of up to 1_percent of GDP. I have asked this Parliament, by an absolute majority; approved. The unions of Catalonia are asking for it. The employers of Catalonia are asking for it. Many other governments are also asking for it. It's absolutely necessary. Not only to cover the part that will be missing to cover the presuppositional impact on the guany assumptions, but also to mobilize resources for economic and social reconstruction. It'll be a complex, difficult late. A country that makes the tourist season an important element of the seasonality of its economy, with the complexity of this year, so we will have a difficult delay and therefore need to mobilise all resources. And it's incomprehensible that this minimum top of '1_per_cent hasn't been fixed yet. We have done the work, and we agree precisely with the agreement that there was, that it is a step forward; we probably liked that it was more ambitious, but we have to note that it is a step forward in the history of the European Reactivation Fund. The Government of Catalonia has done its job, has prepared a whole series of projects to mobilise up to €31,000_million, which are precisely the resources that we also want to mobilise from these European foundations, and which Catalonia also has to manage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.49.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the performance of the Interior Department to protect citizens' rights to the peaceful use and enjoyment of residence]] [[310-00372/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about the performance of the Interior Department to protect citizens' rights to the use and peaceful enjoyment of their residence, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jean Castel. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.50.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... occupation vilely attacks property and privacy, a scourge that many citizens suffer daily in Catalonia, where their rights are systematically violated. What preventive security, surveillance and control measures are being carried out from your department to protect these citizens? And what are the lines that are being studied from your department to counter such a serious situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.51.0	To answer the question, you have the word "adviser d'Interior", Mr. Miquel Buch. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.52.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. On questions about which lines. Since the year 2012 the Squadre Mosso Cos has designed a specific operating plan, which is the specific operating plan for housing, in which it is old for the protection of habitual, temporary and sporadic residences. There are common strategies of the same Cos de Mossos with the local police from the near, let's say, police, but there is also a vast assistance that is working together, with different departments of the Generality, such as that of Labour and Social Welfare, with the Catalan Agency of Habitatage, with associations of veins, and also, until now, for the Covid, with the Department of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.54.0	Look, the data does not indicate improvement, but a remarkable and continuous increase in cases. Citizens have been, are and will always be next to the people who the occupation and its lack of protection make them invisible victims. People who are forced to live situations like having occupied their home, their privacy and, in many cases, the memories of a lifetime. From Citizens we have presented initiatives on many occasions – you will remember – and what have you done, counselor? Look, what operations are being carried out from your department? Or what decisions have you made to stop the occupation and protect us? We have a moral and institutional obligation to legislate to protect citizens and people in this situation. How are you protecting families, counselor? Look, we have to get rid of criminals and organized gangs who take advantage of them every day. Despair caused, on the one hand, by the gaps in our judicial system, yes, but also by the lack of prevention in control, protection and security, which I want to remind you hang from your department. In many cases with extortions such as asking you for money to return your home or seeing our homes converted into marijuana plantations, narcopies, warehouses of the top blanket or converted, our privacy, into organized gang brothel. It's also your responsibility. Take it or resign, counselor. Others are able to turn things into work and legislation, taking appropriate measures and decisions that guarantee rights and ensure the safety of all of us. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.56.0	Thank you, President. You're double morals, double-faced, huh? Those who have a speech here and a different speech there. But sometimes, or often, they are diametrically opposed, the speeches they make or the actions they take. I can't get in, with a minute and a half left of the question, in a debate about occupations, because I think it gives a lot to talk about occupations, reality, different types of occupations that exist and cease to exist. Therefore, if I want to replace you to have a deeper debate and talk about the occupations. But what is certain is that you know about the fact that this Parliament cannot legislate on the right to housing and on occupations. You know perfectly well. He knows perfectly well that this is a law that relies on the Congress of Deputies. And here, you charge against the police, charge against the Government of the Generality, charge against the Interior Department. But in Madrid, to change the law they don't do anything. That's double standards. That's the double face. You criticize the messenger, but don't change the message. Too much to criticize the police, they won't change occupations. They'll change when I change the law. Therefore, if you want to do all that you have explained – that you can legally say, and that I propose to you to debate it when you want to – if you want to do something, change it to Madrid. And, if not, I've already told your partner, MP Alonso, that they saw that it was a law that for many years has brought many complaints, many protests, because it has to be fixed and Spain does not fix it, so, look, I'm leaving the independence bench, ask for independence and make a law as god-hand.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about digital threats to citizens' privacy]] [[310-00373/12]] The next question is about the digital threats to citizens' privacy, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. What do you think of the alleged cases of espionage related to this Parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.59.0	To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.60.0	Yes, thank you, President. Congressman, I think you're wrong about asking him the question. I would have to do it to Mr. Iceta or Mrs. Jessica Albiach, because, if not, the news that these days have come out in the diary, what they say is that the spies are us, huh? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.61.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.62.0	Make it clear we know who we're asking. We are concerned and concerned about the situation and want to be investigated, but we cannot rule out any hypotheses. We are concerned about the fact that we were concerned about the information that said constitutionalists were being spied on in Catalonia. We are concerned that the former director of the Cesicat is pending a trial for espionage. We are also puzzled that you recognized yourself to have been cyber-attacked – giving, by the way, quite contradictory versions of the experience – and we are surprised that you, who always wears the layer of cyberhero, do not warn of that threat to the rest of the Members. I imagine you've at least reported it to the Mossos d'Esquadra. The topic requires research and there are several open hypotheses, but it also requires caution. We saw how soon Mr Torrent was accusing, as they always do, the Spanish Government of his situation. Something that does not surprise us, as I have told you, because the usual suspect for separatism is always the Government of Spain. In particular, he accused the CNI. You should, by the way, know and know that the CNI only acts under judicial mandate and in situations that pose a threat to national security. The matter is open, indeed, and from Citizens we will not confirm or deny any suspicion. But in the face of so much speculation, we have a certainty: you spend EUR 15 million per year on a cybersecurity agency without judicial control and without any competition. If, in spite of that waste, you had spied on the second authority of Catalonia, which is also your governing partner and political rival, with a simple app and this would not have been detected by the Cybersecurity Agency, logic tells us that one of two: either it was you, or you knew it or consented to it, or that this cybersecurity agency serves absolutely nothing and does not protect anyone. In both cases it will be agreed, as Citizens maintain, that we must close this agency, which we do not trust, which is a waste well of Catalan money and which serves absolutely nothing. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.64.0	Thank you, Congressman. Listen, the government of Catalonia has been working for years to ensure cybersecurity in this country, and we have shown that we have passed an agency law to this Parliament – by the way, voted for everyone less for you, huh? Therefore, an agency, therefore, that came out of the consent of this Parliament with the impulse that we gave it from the government. But it is more: you also want to detail the premise of digital policies, you want to detail the whole premise – said your spokesman, Mr Carlos Carrizosa, in an intervention here in Parliament – of this council, you want to detail the resources intended precisely to cyberprotect not only citizens, cyberprotect institutions, cyberprotect businesses in this country, and we will not allow them to do so. In fact, I already announce it – that we will bring it to Government properly – a new program to strengthen the cybersecurity measures of the Generalities, seeing the news that has appeared later in certain media of cyberattacks, cyber espionage supposedly produced or made, in this case, of some institutions of the State. And he's supposed to say because, obviously, we're in the middle of an investigation and we expect his group in Madrid to do whatever it takes to get to the bottom of the issue, because it can't be allowed in this country that the president of Parliament and other authorities are being watched, they're being interviewed, their mobile phones, as we think they're going through. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the motivations that have prevented facilitating access to information about the travel of the Councillor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency from July 13 to 18, 2019]] [[320-01635/12]] The next question is about the motivations that have prevented you from facilitating access to information about the travel of the Councillor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency from July 13 to 18, 2019. The question is raised, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.66.0	Thank you. Counselor, what is your opinion, what opinion does it deserve that an independent body of transparency has repeatedly considered that my right of access to information has been violated?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor d'Acció Exterior, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Solé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.68.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, President. Member, my opinion is that at all times the government has respected the right to access information, and that it has been given the answer you asked us to your question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.69.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.70.0	Counselor, say what I'm saying, the case is that when an independent transparency agency considers that my right of access to information has been violated, it's that something hard happens, because it's an essential right to control the government. You know that in about three weeks you have to deliver the information, but often these three weeks are much more, because, or they will partially implement it, or simply deliver what you want, but not what the Member, in this case, is asking, with which we can spend more than a year, when no one remembers. This in the best of cases, but in the worst of cases, despite the fact that you are obliged to deliver this information, it will simply not work. And that's what we've been told over and over again in the case we're dealing with, that referring to the transparency portal doesn't guarantee the right of access to information of a member of the Catalan Parliament. And that's hard, because disempowering a member of the Catalan Parliament is disempowering Catalans, it's lying to Catalans, and lying to you no longer conceals. I also asked him if the government delegates abroad had made any trips after November 2019, and you said no. And at the end of a few days I find that by 2020 all government delegates abroad had travelled to Brussels in an act that certainly cost the public a lot. Isn't that lying, Counselor? Don't you think that's hard? Look, counselor, I think it's time for you to leave, and more of your Transparency advice, to practice political obscurantism, confusion, lies... Catalans want to know the reality of what they're doing, not what they're inventing, not what they're manipulating. And from Ciutadans, we will continue to work because you say the truth before the Catalans. And it counts, because we don't get tired. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.71.0	I've got the word again for the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.72.0	All right, Congresswoman. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you a little history. On July 17, 2019, you asked us for information about a trip that had not yet been completed. An unusual fact. Generally, the journeys are completed and then the information is asked, if it is considered opportune. In September 2019 all the travel information in reference to destination, commitivity, agency and detail of expenses was published on the transparency portal. Precisely, not because you are asking, but because all citizens have the right to access this information through the transparency criteria, and also through the active advertising criteria. In fact, we have reduced spending validation time to ensure that in less than one_month all information is stuck to the transparency portal. Therefore, you will be referred to the portal of transparency, which is the place where all citizens have access to this information. You weren't satisfied with this. He made us a request, he made us a letter of help to the guarantee body, a letter to the Bureau – also an unusual fact – an oral question to the plenary, and also a leak to one of the most important institutions in the State such as Global Chronicle. I'll try to make him there explain. For an administrative criteria and a presuppositional containment criteria, we, the department, the Government of the Generality, when in a trip there is a stop, which was the case..., the Counsellor Bosch traveled to the United States and made a stop to London. In these cases, it is not to consider two trips. There is no sense that Counsellor Bosch has gone to London, returned to Barcelona, went to the United States and returned to Barcelona, so he is considered a single traveler. Therefore, fractionation, in this case, is impossible. And that's what's stuck in the transparency portal, and that's the answer we've given him at all times. And if that doesn't seem right, I invite you to visit us at the Department of Foreign Affairs, and we invite you to explain how it is traveled, how it is navigated through the transparency portal, which is what all the citizens of this country do to know all the information respecting government action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the results of limiting the prices of the loguer for law to the places in Europe in which it applied]] [[317-00215/12]] Let us now turn to the questions to the President of the Generality, and the first formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.74.0	Thank you, President. Do you know the results of limiting the price of rent by law in places in Europe where it has been applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.75.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.76.0	Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Mr. Congressman. You'll have to excuse me, but I wanted to say three things before I answered it, because things happen to our country. First, today is a jutja an honorable woman, a brave woman, a woman who values the culture and language of the country and an tireless worker for the Catalan Republic. Today, a person is judged by whom the President of the Council of the Judiciary, the highest Spanish judicial organ, says he is of the "independence challenge". It's impossible for Laura Borràs to have a fair trial, and today more than ever I want her to know that we are at her side, with all the strength and all the heart, Laura. [[Some applause.]] Not just that. Yesterday two members of the CDR declared to the National Hearing for Operation Judes, an operation that, as we all know at this time, simply wanted to do for, to move through, the independence world. At the National Audience. And, in the third place – and in the third place – today continues a trial against the previous members of this Bureau of Parliament, which for some is a cause of great sadness and for others should be a cause of great shame. Sad for all of us who think that this Parliament is going to talk, it's going to debate what you need and it's voting that this Parliament, which belongs to the sovereignty of Catalans, decides to vote. And, therefore, on his side, always on the side of democracy and those who defend democracy. And shame for all those who seize the repression against your fellow members of the legislature who were here doing what they had to do, which was their duere, was their duere as members of the Parliament. In the true shame of this trial, which gave you coverage of your profile. It's a sad day for some, it's a day of shame for others, but it's also a day of hope, because we're here, because we're going on and we're going on fighting for independence and the Catalan Republic. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.77.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word... yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.78.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...president, and to ask your employer, because, listen'm, we have..., our parliamentary subgroup has a question to the president every month, one every month, and when asked a question to the president cannot use two minutes, two minutes and a half, to talk about his book. We feel in a situation of terrible desperation, and the president is the one who should order the debate and ask the president to return to the question that has been raised. Therefore, I would ask you, President, that we start again, that it is not a valid gift for this intervention of the President as the answer to a question that has been put to him, because he has not answered a question, but he has explained to him what he was going to explain, but we remain in a situation of total unemployment. And, therefore, President, they ask him to intervene and correct this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.79.0	Member, you know perfectly well that we do not intervene when the rest of the Members, whether it is the President of the Generality or any Member, make comments taking advantage of their turn, as has been done before by other Members. So, we're still with... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Member, I insist, has the word Mr Fernández, and the President has time to answer the question that the Member is now asking, and in any case I will be generous in the use of time after the President and, therefore, will be longer. Deputy, when you want to. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Congressman, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.80.0	The same goes for a point of order, and to ask the President to support the Members of this House. It is not possible for the President of the Generalitat to take advantage of the turn of the answers to the Members to talk about his book, let alone attack other parliamentary groups in this chamber for the position they hold in defence of democracy, for the outrage that this Parliament suffered by the members of the Bureau on 6 and 7 September 2017. I'd just miss...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.81.0	All right, thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.82.0	...that those people who have incurred disobedience...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.83.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.84.0	...to the Constitutional Court, have the president's amparo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.85.0	One thing is a matter of order and the other...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.86.0	...on a deputy's question time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.87.0	Thank you, Congressman, you don't have the word anymore. [[Some applause.]] Deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.88.0	Thank you. Eight years ago you started a process in which, in the absence of a majority to pass transitional laws, you needed the CUP. The problem is that eight years later independence does not reach them, but the CUP remains, or at least a substantial part of its agenda. Today we are witnessing in Catalonia a fiscal pressure that has been unleashed, an unprecedented attack on concerted education, a law on okupas that encourages them, practically, and now they are getting out of the way that they want to approve the limitation by law of the rental price. Like any Marxist-inspired proposition, it is loaded with good intentions, to limit the rental price, who does not want to lower the rental price. The problem is that the results always end up being exactly the opposite of those recommended by the measure. It was good to recognize the same Nadia Calviño, the minister, in February, when he referred to the report of international experience of the Bank of Spain which pointed out that in European cities where the price of rent had been limited – oh, surprise – the price did not go down, it turned out that it went up. And why does that happen? Well, it's very simple. If you force the owner at a certain price, and above that you leave him unprotected before the okupas, because he decides to put the apartment for sale, does not rent it, which reduces the available rental park and ends up diverting the investment to the house intended for sale instead of the rent. As I said a moment ago, the result ends up being exactly the opposite of what was being sought. Obviously, the public administration has an obligation to guarantee the right to housing, but never trampling on a fundamental right such as property. Nor by taking out social housing at unorbited prices – which, of social, have absolutely nothing – while the owners impose an absolutely impossible price. Precisely for this reason, I announce that we are going to defend the Catalan owners, vote for those who vote, because the vast majority, 93_per_cent, are not precisely millionaires; they are humble families who, after decades of work, have devoted their savings to housing, and do not have to live the calvary of being occupied or systematically trampled on their rights, which is what you are doing with your housing policy in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word again the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.90.0	Yes, Mr. Deputy. On this subject, look, I think that... I've always said, these months we should have produced a deep personal reflection on whether the world of yesterday, the world before the Covid, was a sustainable world; if, as we lived before, it's a way of continuing to push our lives forward in a fair and balanced way. I think that..., I expected from us this reflection, I expected from us that we actually arrive at the conclusion that they must change the values of this society, of a society that we want much fairer, much more balanced, and that, therefore, measures such as delimiting the prices of the loguers go in this direction. Therefore, I..., it seems to me very good that you have resorted to these decisions, but I, in change, will accept the measures that Parliament decides...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.91.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.92.0	...as it can't be any other way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.93.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the management of the health crisis]] [[317-00218/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.94.0	Yes; thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. President, what do you think President Torra of March would say to Governor Torra-Aragonès of July about his management of the health crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.96.0	I would say the same, because it is that he continues to do the same – he continues to do the same – it is to say: responsibility, he would say 'executive', he would say 'anticipation' and he would say 'transparency'. These are the ways in which we have focused from the very first moment the pandemic – from the first moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.97.0	To answer that question, you've got the word again for the MP. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.98.0	Yes, thank you, President. Now a little more than a month ago you have exclusive competence in the management of the health crisis, and in these weeks we have converted into the territory of the State that has more cases of Covid. And we are aware of the enormous complexity, but perhaps you, to these ingredients that you said, could add humility, because it would also be just that you recognize that it was wrong to skip phase three in just twenty-four hours to go from one side to the new normality, and more so when the surveillance network to contain the virus was not sufficiently prepared or muscled. A three-pot ring. The first, the primary, the primary attention. Right now, there are four hundred consultants and closed CAPs in Catalonia, which is completely incomprehensible. The second, a robust information system, when you are aware that the management of the information is failing. And the third is the trackers; we have less than Mallorca, we have seven times less than the Valencian country, and today we know that there are some municipalities that are already contracting their own trackers because you are not doing the job. President, on March we didn't know what we were up against, but now we do, and we know we're going to get ahead of ourselves, and we're going to be foresight, and you haven't. I believe that you have many ideas, many advices, many proposals for the central government, but now it is you who are directly managing this health crisis exclusively, so we are seeing how they are wrecking. And after listening to the 1,714,000 masks of Mr. Buch; the « from Madrid to heaven, of Mrs. Ponsati ; « in an independent Catalonia we would have fewer deaths, of Mrs. Budó, so now you are failing. And I'm deeply concerned about this frailty, because this frailty is, quite simply, anguish, uncertainty and patience for the citizenry, because we don't rise to the head of the health crisis and, moreover, we can still be more surprised at the social and economic crisis. So, president, I, please, ask him to do his job, which is to seek solutions. This time I can't blame either the central government, the citizenry or the municipal world, which is demonstrating absolute loyalty, of all political colors – and here I also want to be very fair: of all political colors. You're the competent health authority, so they tell you to listen to the experts, to do your job, to make the CAPs, to strengthen primary care, to work humbly and to accept help, because here we are – and I insist on it again, I said it yesterday and I'll say it the times I do – to collaborate, to add and to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.100.0	Thank you. I would be a little more careful at the time of judging the governments of others. I would just like to remind you that the government in which you participated, the government of the PSOE-Podemos of Madrid, led Spain to lead the ranks of the worse managed the crisis all over the world, and this is known all over the world. This government has always anticipated it. Did he anticipate asking for full confinement, or not? ; did he anticipate asking for the minimum wage, or not? He anticipated asking for the use of masks, didn't he? Who's the one who doesn't use masks at these times? Two autonomous communities from all over the State. We were going to be the first to ask. Do you think this is a toilet race? Does this look like a toilet race, the fight against the epidemic, or is it a solution proposal? So what I expect from the groups is a constructive criticism. All Critics [[Funnel veils]] – I'm sorry, I'm talking – that I've made to the central government always come along with constructive proposals, all of them – always, always. It was never a criticism to criticize. And when things changed, things changed in this country. They changed their residences, they also changed last week. Because I asked the Health Counselor, that we should change the whole topic of the trackers, the theme of the PCRs, which was to appoint a Secretary of Public Health – I suggested the name of Mr. Argimon. So, we've made the changes that are going on. And we do the self-criticisms that fall, for example, with information – I recognize that. We haven't been able to report well, but we haven't been able to report well, not at the time of ordering Lleida's closure or the measures they take, before; because the municipalities must know before, long before, what is the evolution of their municipalities, the tendency of their epidemic, and during the epidemic, and after the epidemic. That's why we've created, too, advisors to the District Court, because the information flows, because it's one of the most important keys. The mayors, the mayors know you need to know long before you can get through your municipalities, and therefore we will insist on that very much. And I want to thank all the mayors and mayors of this country who are in front of us. They all really do a commendable job and I want to thank them publicly. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.101.0	Thank you, President. Your time's up. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the assessment of the current situation with regard to the Covid-19 pandemic and the government's proposals to get out of it]] [[317-00217/12]] The question follows the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.102.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President of the Generality, as well as the many differences that separate us, there is a priority that unites us, which is the struggle against the pandemic and its effects. And from this point of view I want to announce, on behalf of my group, and reiterate our support to the government with its pocket to fight it. Certainly, the rebounds that we're painting worry about, and a lot, and that's why we're asking him, president, how he appreciates the current situation, how he thinks we got here and what the government's proposing to us to get out of it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.104.0	So as I've communicated, I'm sorry, huh? Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Congressman. As I have reported every time I have had the occasion, the situation is worrying in large areas of the country, at these times more than 50_per_cent of the population suffers from some type of restriction. Is it worrying what it was like in March? No, it's not worrying how we were on March. Why? Because the situation is different. On July 1st we had forty-nine people in UCI Covid's bed. Yesterday, yesterday, we had fifty-six people, that is, seven more people. I mean, from a hospital point of view, there's not the extreme hospital we could have had in March, but all the caution, all the caution, huh? We absolutely don't have to give him any good, that fact. Remember we came to have 1,500 people in Covid beds. So the situation is another, that's right, but now the situation is worrying, because we can now be talking about patients, so, younger, lower viral load, that we know when they get to the hospital, how to treat them, etc. But this..., let's also tell him that after the measures taken this past week, to triple the name of trackers, to triple the name of PCRs, and arriving until the twenty-thousand PCRs, to have a secretary of Public Health... I seem to know how, the proper mesos, that we have to live with this virus, that we have to live with it, how we can find all these solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.105.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.106.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that we believe that the nine-and-a-half days of the state of alarm should have been used to prepare better for this situation, for the descalation and subsequent control of the pandemic. It gives the impression that his Government was more loving to give advice to the Government of Spain than to prepare for its responsibilities when the state of alarm ended. And in this sense, and it has been said here too, we believe that the fact that the three-hour phase lasted twenty-four hours was a big mistake. Nor have we understood why forty-six days has gone by to appoint a secretary of public health, to whom we desire the most uncertain. We believe that early detection devices of new cases of contact tracking and quarantine of infected people have not worked well. The buds of Segria, Lleida, Barcelona and its metropolitan area and other people believe that they have put it on display, and from this point of view we believe, President, that we are late. We don't think we're counting on enough trackers yet. It is true that the experts have asked to double the name we have, but in any case, we want to give the welcome to the five hundred who committed the new Secretary of Health, to whom we also ask a strengthening of the primary care system, because it is on the first line where it can help more in the initial control of these buds. We believe that the measures the Government has taken, which we support, should have been perhaps more precise and attacking the real, more specific buds. Some cultural and sports activities are keeping the mechanisms of protection, precaution, and, in change, probably, some night crowds that bring together a lot of people with no real possibility of guaranteeing protection measures should be really banned and avoided. To ensure that the measures taken are as effective as possible, more collaboration...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.107.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.108.0	...with gatherings, more information and more attention... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.109.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.110.0	Yes, Congressman. Well, I thank you for the proposals you have made, as I also thank Minister Illa who has been supporting all the measures taken by the Government of Catalonia. It's true that there have been some improvements, and I already said it, I think the measures we took last week, so, they go that way, but if we can take last week's measures, it's because we haven't been able to do it – never. It seemed now, by his words, that during the state of alarm we had been with arms folded, didn't it? And this government has not stopped ruling at every moment, even if it's about competition. The ones we managed here at the hospitals and primary care were us. And totally agree to listen to the mayors, totally agree. I met with all the mayors of Noguera, with all the mayors of Segria, with all the metropolitan mayors, with the mayor of Figueres and Vilafant. Wherever you want to do anything, you know what they mean...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.111.0	President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.112.0	...with the support and support of the Government of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.113.0	Thank you. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the joint strategy of independence and the approval of the Economic Reactivation and Social Protection Plan]] [[317-00220/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.114.0	Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies. Yesterday, together with the Vice President of the Government, we presented the Reactivation Plan to tackle the economic and social crisis resulting from the Covid-19. A lot of ambition: 30,000_millions that suppose the mobilization of the most important resources of the contemporary history of Catalonia; 30,000_millions that do not seek to go back where we were, but transform the country and lay the foundations to achieve a better, fairer, more net society, freer and closer for everyone. A job that has been done in parallel with the day-to-day fight against the virus and the rebounds, against these rebounds that exist in our country, and that thanks to the quick action of the government begin to aim for stability. We must assume this dramatic crisis as well as something that must open our eyes, which must force us to move towards a better Catalonia, and which at the same time affirms us in the irrevocable objective of laying the foundations for the future Catalan Republic. It could strengthen the welfare state, the public sector, and put people in the center, much different from the receptions that had previously been applied to Catalonia. Twenty great projects broken down into 145 actions that will help us weave and build the future. We are therefore entering a new stage, at the reconstruction stage, where we will have great majorities, great consensus to face the reactivation of the country, and in this sense it is fundamental that we continue to work together, as we have done in the reconstruction plan, and that we have done also in the objective of independence, because this reactivation must also allow us to advance towards the Catalan Republic. In fact, we need to be aware that there will not be a complete reconstruction, that there will not be a complete reactivation without having the tools of a state, and we can only do so constructively, without toilets, and looking only at the past to build together the future. In this sense, president, we like Coreco's work experience, and we think we can repeat it too to build a shared strategy that allows us to mark the path and the shared files of our own years. It's time to break down barriers, get over us, and Esquerra is clear. We've done our homework by drawing lessons from the U of October, we aim to build a new fight and get there in the mood to win. A shared strategy that we pose to the service of all independence to discuss it, to discuss it, to agree it together. Are you in, President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.115.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.116.0	Yes, yesterday when we introduced you, with the vice president, so, what is a job of many weeks... And I would like to take advantage of it to thank all the teams of the government's economic advisers and advisers, so a very well done job, done with cooperation, done with debate and with the leadership of the vice president, I actually came out yesterday to report that the object of this plan was, listen to me, to save lives and save futures – to save futures, right? I think that, in addition, it coincided with this news that we celebrate and that we congratulate, from the European Union, on having agreed to a truly historic plan, and that, if I may say so, yes? , with this plan that we present that coincided the same day, allows us to say that Catalonia is prepared and, therefore, to be able to manage the import that we consider to be close to us, and that, somehow, we have calculated in these 31,000_million euros, of which 2,800_million euros are serious for encanny, right? In this line that you commented, to strengthen the productive capacity of the country, to avoid that no one is left behind, to accelerate the transition to economic models of sustainability. I think that the axes that we were able to cover... Not only with the economic plan, the plan of economic recovery and social protection, but the day before also with the social dialogue council with employers and unions, which we agreed with the axes that will mark the future of the country, that are the economy of life, digitalization, the economic transition and the society of knowledge, apart from a whole series of cross-cutting actions, this fixed us already a very clear line of where we are going, huh? We're on our way. You were also commenting on the whole subject at the end of the day, so it seems to me, of the unity of independence. I come from this world, as you can imagine, and so I don't think we've ever been able to win and get out - if we're not able to make a collection jump, a collection jump. That's it. It's impossible to get independence if we don't get all together. I, humbly and modestly, in these sessions until today and until summer, proposed to the chamber a way out, which was a reference of self-determination, because I grow there. I think we need to set it up another time. I think we should do it again. And I think that this could really bring us all together in this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.117.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the prioritisation of country agreements in the current times of health, social and economic crisis]] [[317-00219/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.118.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Many honorable President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. Before asking the question to President Torra, we want to note that these last days we are experiencing a new wave of political repression. Today Laura Borràs pleads with the Supreme Court for scandalous manipulation. Yesterday the independent members of the previous Bureau of Parliament began to be judged for having complied with their obligations, which were to allow a parliamentary debate. And a few days ago it was also known that Councillor Puignero and President Torrent were victims of inadmissible espionage through their mobile. Our solidarity with all of them. From the Juntas for Catalonia we repeat that everyone will find us at their side against repression, at all times and in any circumstance. Also, president, we want to express support for the appointment of Dr. Argimon as head of the Department of Public Health, to whom we thank the country's service to assume this responsibility at these times, because no one escapes that it is time when health care comes with an economic and social urgency, and therefore time for politics. Time when attitudes of maximum responsibility, rigour, solvency and self-extensive will are required. The government and you yourself have demonstrated since the beginning of the pandemic that these are moments of great accords, country pacts and summation, prioritizing the country by any interest on its part. And for example, we have several: the implementation of the territorial councils of the Procicate rau of the country, the establishment of the committee of experts for the transformation of the public health system, the permanent contact with the principal directors of hospitals, the contact with the mayors, etc. And, above all, with the National Agreement for Economic Reactivation and Social Protection presented yesterday, and which the diluns signed with the country's main employers and unions. A country pact, an act of co-responsibility, a sum gesture and a future bet. An agreement that formalizes a premise that we have repeated since Juntes for Catalonia since the beginning of the pandemic: the need to protect people, to save businesses, to preserve the economy and to guarantee the welfare of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans. In this sense, President, we would like to know what his appreciation for respect is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.119.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.120.0	Yes, thank you very much, Congressman. I hope you don't deny me if I'm talking about repression too. And, actually, it's fixed there, huh? In the last forty-four hours we have independents at the High Court of Justice in Catalonia, we have independents at the National Court and we have independents at the Supreme Court. All this with the most progressive government in history, huh? What has changed with respect to how we were two years ago? Where are we? At the same point, exactly at the same point, if I may. So yes, and you said so. I think that precisely this government, and before I have commented briefly, if anything we have done is, first: responsibility; giving face always, always, at all times, in the most difficult situations. We've been there, always, with who he is. I say: 'executive; I think we have taken all the measures that experts have always asked us to take at all times. We've never been away for a moment. Did you want to do that? The government immediately approved it. We haven't doubted it. Always saving lives before all. With all the pressures that this can mean, but people's lives go through everything. Third: anticipate, and I think it's clear. He used to set the masquerade example, didn't he? For example, in this last round of rebounds. And lastly, be transparent and tell the truth, and tell what's going on, because the last thing you can do is fool people at these times. That's exactly what's going on. And if anything we didn't do right, let's say so. Look, we didn't do well with the information at the gatherings, and that's true, we need to get better. And if anything we have to correct, we correct it. And, therefore, if we have to increase the number of trackers, we increase the number of trackers. If we have to increase the number of PCRs, we increase the number of PCRs. Of course, these are the criticisms we need, the ones that help us move forward. And I would like to say, too..., because I think society deserves it, that you see that... listen to me, yes, yesterday we sign, the government, the economic recovery plan, but before yesterday we had an agreement with employers and unions and the government that lays the foundation for this agreement. But, further on, we have a committee of health experts to study the structural reform of the health system. We have presented a plan of PUOSC for the assemblies, of 250_millions; we will contract 8,256 people of teaching and non-docent staff; we will make an investment of 184_millions of a digital adequacy plan of Catalonia; we have unblocked the Hospital Trueta, that if something claimed the Gironine comarques was a new Hospital Trueta; we have extended the Mobile World Congress. This country is advancing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.121.0	President, time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.122.0	This country is moving forward in spite of everything, and that's good news, and we have to celebrate that too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.123.0	Next... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the increase in the number of coronary virus infections in Catalonia later weeks]] [[317-00216/12]] ...and later asks the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Lorena Roldán. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.124.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Torra, how do you explain the increase in contagion in Catalonia in recent weeks?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.126.0	So, look, because there's been a series of buds, like there's been in Catalonia, there's not in Aragó, there's practically not in all the autonomous communities, as it's been in all of Europe, etc. We knew these sprouts could pass, and Catalonia has passed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.127.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.128.0	Yes; look, Mr. Torra, weeks ago as we have been warning you of the need to be prepared for these possible new rebounds. The health experts told him, we told him also from the opposition, and he should have told him the common sense too, although, frankly, it seems to me that this is not his strong point. And believe me, I don't say that to you as a free review. If I'm basing myself on the facts. It was common sense to strengthen primary care, which was exhausted after months of hard work, and it was also common sense to strengthen and ensure the tracking of positives to prevent timely contagions from becoming community contagions. But, look, you know what's going on? That there are no preventive measures. Massive tests are missing, selective confinements, support ambulances, trackers are missing; management is lacking, Mr. Torra. And you, over the last few months... you've been protesting them because you've withdrawn your skills, and you even allowed yourself the fear of going around bragging about saying that you alone in an independent Catalonia would have done much better. Well, look, now you've got the skills here. And do you know what they've done with the competitions? Absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing. You've lost control of the contagions. Look, three or four weeks of self-management and we're worse off than the rest of Spain. And I don't say it to him or to him Citizens, says Benito Admiral, who is the head of the Infectious Diseases Service of the Vall d'Hebron. Who are you going to blame now, Mr. Torra? To the Government of Spain? Opposition? Who's to blame? Do the citizens, who one day tell them one thing and the next tell them the opposite? Are positive PCRs being made, and do you know who is contacting relatives and relatives of people who are positive, who have given positive in that PCR? The affected themselves, who are proving to be more responsible than you. Look, businessmen, merchants, restaurateurs, hoteliers have spent a lot of money to adjust their premises and make insurance in front of the Covid-19. And what do they get from the government? Chaos, improvisation and uncertainty. Look, it's neither fair nor receipt, Mr. Torra. If you need help, ask her, and if you offer her, take her, Mr. Torra, because if you fail it turns out that we all lose. And I'm already telling you that Citizens are going to do everything in their hand to prevent that from happening. And if we have to ask the Government of Spain for help, don't hesitate that we will do it. And please stop wasting time on things that are not essential now: it is not up to you to talk about elections now, it is not up to you to attack the head of state or to set up numbers like the one you set up here a moment ago. It's time to save lives. Let's get to it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.129.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.130.0	I would remind the honourable Member that... Moderi's, that you are now the moderate center, and therefore watch. You'd have to make a change of speech, wouldn't you? Because everything you just said right now sounds like the usual, and no. I mean, listen to me, if you want to occupy a moderate center space, so that's, moderate's; you know that. Anyway, you know what Jules Renard said, right? That's a very good phrase. He says: "A moderate is a person who deals moderately with the interests of others. Maybe that's what moderation is for you. Look, it seems to me that we are carrying the whole session in the same way, that this government has acted with full responsibility and giving face at all times, always following the criteria of the experts, anticipating us, ruling more than ever, ruling day by day and governing the pandemic, which we have to live with with the virus. We have to live with the virus, because we can't shut this country down; we can't lock it up. And, therefore, we must be able to cope, because the situation is different from March, to see how we can find a way to resolve the buds that are occasionally present. It seems, and I don't want to give false hopes, but it seems that we are finally stabilizing the situation in Lleida and, therefore, we hope that this week's head will be able to lower the crow. That would be great news, but we're still careful about that. We have a difficult situation in the metropolitan area; certainly, difficult. But with all the measures taken last week, we have confidence. And in any case, the secretary of public health will tell us what we have to do. Before he pointed out a possibility, he was studying: the possibility of closing the night oci throughout Catalonia. I think it's important, because we have a problem: it's about young people's relationship with Covid, with the whole issue of prevention. What's important now is that all of Catalonia's vulnerable collection, these 800,000 people we have between residences and at home and large people, that these people really keep them safe and that from the way they go, so the virus can't get in. And yes, it's also a theme of co-responsibility. All dues and all responsibility that we have assumed since the first moment the Government..., we have assumed from the first moment – from the first moment. And I, who say I'm guilty of all the evils of Catalonia, so, listen'm, I'm also the last person responsible for the Covid issue, it's the same, no problem. I'll take everything. And it's that we can't put a move behind every city, and so I also demand this responsibility to the citizen. It's very important, we don't have to go out together. I've always said, it's a social pact, the one we're establishing here. You protect yourself by...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.131.0	President, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.132.0	...protect me and I protect me to protect you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.133.0	Thank you. You finish the... yes, say'm, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.134.0	Yes, by a call to compliance with Rule 90.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.135.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.136.0	We understand that two articles have been violated in this monitoring session: one, 164, on the content of the answers to the oral questions, which has been clearly violated by the President of the Generalitat, and the other, Article 85.6, on interventions by the President and the Government in Parliament. When they do not comply with the terms of the debate, another debate is opened..., he is asked by the President, and in that case another debate is opened in which there is a possibility of replicas by the opposition. We cannot... In this case, we have attended a political message from the President, apart from the answer to the question, agreed by the President of Parliament, when he should have called on him to adhere to the terms of the debate on the question he had been asked. In this way, the right of the Member is violated and the opposition is left unable to respond, and the debate in this Parliament is again undervalued, and the rules and democratic rules of the debate in the Catalonian Parliament are again violated. Please, Mr. President, we're asking for protection.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.137.0	All right. It is collected, Mr. Carrizosa, and, of course, you have the opportunity to claim your rights for the lives you correspond. In any case, the control session is over. Now I give the word to Mr.Iceta and Mr.Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.138.0	Very briefly, to add to the girly considerations for Carlos Carrizosa, that I think are worth it for today and forever.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. Yes, Mr. Batet, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.140.0	In any case, because I'd like to read the titles of the questions that the president is interested in, that they train by writing. Because, of course, in any case, I am convinced that the response entered by the People's Party fits perfectly with the response of President Torra. That they're generic questions, the ones that are the president's fan. And in any case, the president's answer is perfectly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.141.0	Thank you, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.142.0	...to the question that has been asked to the President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.143.0	As we say, we move forward, we follow the order of the day. In any case, let me warn you of a change in the order of the day proposed both for the questioner and for the government, and which corresponds to a change in the question to the government about industrial policy and the question about the acts of Catalonia in the productive economy linked to the sciences of life, which will be the substance of giving this place late, after point 19. And so I also inform you that, as we pointed out yesterday, this half-day we will substantiate the corresponding questions to items 9 and 12 of the order of the day. Can this change in the order of the day be approved by consent? Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right. [[Coastal Ordering Law Project]] [[200-00007/12]] So let's go, as I said, to the next point, which is, in this case, the debate on the opinion of the Commission of Territori on the Coastal Law Project. I, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, have the word, first of all, Deputy Marc Sanglas, who has been appointed as rapporteur of this committee. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.144.0	Thank you, President. Counselor. Well, today we arrive at the final stage of this law, a law that began with a name – and, in any case, after I mention it – and ended with another, which was registered in Parliament on November 2018, and which went through the various stages with a debate on the whole of the February of 2019, in which there was no mention of the totality and we were able to continue its process. The initial members of the ponència were Ms. Marina Bravo, of Ciutadans, later replaced by Mr. Sergio Sanz ; Ms. Gemma Geis, of Junts per Catalunya ; Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Group ; Mr. David Cid, of En Comú Puem ; Ms. Natalia Sánchez, of the CUP, and Mr. Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Party. And all of them would like to appreciate the availability and the good work in the parliamentary debate, which, as it could not be otherwise, was affected by this pandemic and forced us to hold some sessions of the debate through videoconferencing. And I would like to thank, too, the work of the Iletrate, Mr. Antoni Bayona, the Parliamentary Manager, Mrs. Eva Vendrell, and the Language Advisor, Mrs. Núria Lucena, who have accompanied us in all these parliamentary work. In this law we held four sessions of attendance, in the morning and late, therefore, intense sessions, in which experts in urban matters, experts in geology, in the sciences of the sea have participated. There have also been representatives of environmentalist entities, such as Ecologists in Action, SOS Costa Brava, Salvem l'Empordà, GEPEC or Platform in Defense of the Ebre. Also municipalist entities, the Metropolitan Area or the joints of Barcelona and Tarragona, and representatives of social and economic entities, such as the port of Palamós, the Catalan Association of Ports Esportius, the Industry Association of Commerce and Nautical Servants, the College of Engineers of Ways, Canals and Ports, the National Federation of Fishermen's Conferences, the Council of Economic and Social Treball of Catalonia or the Catalan Federation of Càmpings. These comparisons have given little to the presentation of nearly a hundred items, of which approximately thirty-seven have been accepted and a further one_thirty transactions have been made, which places us in the situation that the number of accepted and transactional items of the submissions initially was about 70_per_cent, approximately. And someone may say that sometimes the amount doesn't do the thing, but it's true, too, and as I think they would expose the various interveners later, many of these items go into content, go into the background of what this law is, and so they weren't, let's just say, small changes, but they have gone into depth in some, and so also benefit from these contributions from the various parliamentary groups to this law. This law is structured into 34 articles, 8 titles, 12 additional provisions, 5 transitional provisions, 1 derogation and 2 final provisions. The first title establishes the object, the scope of application and the purposes of the law, which are transposed into the catalysed order of the objectives of the protocol relating to integrated management of the coastal areas of the Mediterranean, one of the objectives pursued by this law, to have an extensive and participatory view of all competing administrations that have competence on the coast. The following title regulates the coastal planning and management instruments, the coastal planning plan and the use plans of the coast and the beaches and, above all, reinforces the role of the joints both in urban matters and in management. The third title regulates the system of administrative intervention of the areas of servitude, highlighting above all the simplification of the expedients of works and uses that can be presented before the Administration. Therefore, before a system, let's say, declaration, self-declaration, which will allow you to achieve much faster in the processing, let's say, of the different claims. The fourth title has as an object to establish a regime for the use of the maritime public domain, and the criteria for classifying the platters are established, creating, among others, the type of special protection platters. Here there was a huge effort to talk and above all to give back tools to the editors of the different plans, which will allow, we believe, to establish protection over the conjunction of these landings in function, let's say, of its typology. The title five regulates the economic regime and finance of the marine public domain, creating a new channel destined for the better, conservation, recovery and restoration of the marine public domain of the coast of Catalonia. Therefore, approval of resources, approval of a way of financing, also, of all the operations that should serve as protection of the coast. So it's not a law that doesn't have an arm, but, in any case, it's also accompanied by these resources. The title is aimed at articulating the instruments of public participation, such as the Board of Directors of the Coastal Planning Board and the Boards of Directors of the Pla d'us de la littre de plages. Therefore, with voluntary participation. Others. The title set creates the competent legal protection bodies and creates the Litoral Order Board as we will have to resolve the different issues that affect and some doubts that may hold the joints on this matter and that, therefore, we understand that, as a consulting body and resolution of some of the consultations, it can be an interesting tool. The eighth title regulates the inspection of the coast. And we would like to highlight the contribution of some additional provisions; they are the ones that have expanded the most, or, in any case, we have gone from five to twelve, creating, especially, what would be the Conservator of the Litoral, or the need for compliment of the parity in the organs foreseen to the law. There was, there was already legislation, but we wanted to incorporate, through the papers and the different contributions, that you were aware that all the organs, let us say, are believed from this law, must guarantee the parity of their members. Therefore, these elements. We would also like to highlight the fact, let us say, that we have introduced, and taking advantage of the context in which the processing of this law took place, an additional provision for cases of force majeure. That, in any case, what he does is he takes into account the pandemic situation, which we didn't plan to do. And when we started the law's work, we did allow us to incorporate a new additional arrangement to facilitate and donate tools and instruments, both to the Government of the Generality and to the joints, because, in the event of an emergency, in the event of a situation of force majeure, they can act on, let us say, what would be the combination of their plagiarisms to dictate orders, instructions, in the field of their competitions, in the field of the competitions of public safety or civil protection. And, without further ado, I would like to thank all the support given to us by the secretary of Habitat Urbà and Territori, Agustí Serra, in all the processing of the law, in the follow-up that we have had, as well as Mr. Josep Maria Aguirre, who also accompanied us throughout the processing and giving us all the necessary support from the department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the first place, the parliamentary groups which have reserved defence items in the plenary will then intervene for a maximum of eight minutes for the parliamentary groups and sub-groups. In the first place, has the word the deputy Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.146.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. We all recognize the value of the coast to the Catalans. Geographically it occupies less than 8_percent of the surface of our autonomous community, but it concentrates almost 45_percent of the population and places of work. So, it's a place that has a lot of pressure for man's intervention over the territory. This situation is not exclusive to our region, it also goes to other autonomous communities or other countries around us, since the population is used to concentrating around coastal areas. In our case, moreover, there are some particularities, not only for what it does to natural wealth, which we all recognize, but also because it is a source of socio-economic wealth in our community. We're talking about where 80 per cent of the campsites, 80 per cent of the hotels are concentrated, with everything that you assume for our economy. We are talking, therefore, about a place with a lot of overload, and that human activities have not always been more respectful of the environment. Most of the time because of the disconnection of the effects that we can cause with the urbanization process, or because of the disconnection of the functioning of natural systems. Experience, especially bad experiences, makes us know how important it is to respect the environment we live in. There are places in our territory where we see the effects of having started urbanizing processes without considering these ecosystems. And now we're painting them. Therefore, we have to put the media in order to do things better. There are difficulties, because we do not operate on a zero basis, we operate on an existing reality. But, in addition, we need to operate with a complicated competitive map that we need to sort and call, as has been said on other occasions, a comprehensive management of these competitions. That it is, on the other hand, the one that recommends the European Union, and it is the one that has to make a state like ours, decentralized in three levels. We have the General Administration of the State, the autonomous communities and the municipal levels. Therefore, we must order and try to ensure that all administrations cooperate to the benefit of the general interest. In any case, this bill may consider it a good instrument for improving coastal planning and management to respect the situation we find ourselves in, thus establishing a series of planning and planning mechanisms that are also consistent with other territorial and urban planning instruments that we have in Catalonia. There have been debates about the political content of the law. Some said it was a law that ordered but did not protect. And so much so that even the whole title, which began as the Coast Ordering Law, ends up feeling the Coast Ordering and Protection Law. I wanted to reflect on this issue, because to me, in particular, it seemed like an unnecessary change. Why does a good order already have to protect the environment, huh? And the same way a good building will be energy efficient. And, therefore, it would already be integrated into the order and internalized into the concept of the order. And the majority of technicians and professionals who are well-formed already develop it in planning and already take it into account. This addition, if any... well, it will help to make the law holder more attractive, but we're talking about this, a principle that must govern all order. Yes, he wanted to make another point. We have seen how urban planning, in cities, many times, so..., we have an order, but this order is not developed. I mean, it's not just having a plan or an order on the paper, but after that it's due to end. And here we have, so, a management by the administrations, by the... by the... by the economic resources, because there will be spaces to be recovered and it is not just to put it on a paper, which could end up passing us, right? Look, I know about the Maresma and there, so the pressure on the coast is very important, and we know the effects it has had, for example, on the beaches. Always in the summer, platters are to be laid, and it is because the urbanizing process, the order that has been made, therefore, has not been the most adult respecting, for example, the laughs, the torrents, for the provision of sediments that they make. And we're seeing it, then, as a result of that, so we didn't have much time Gloria, which made some real wreckage all over our coast. Clearly, this also has some expenses, because when we face the storms, we have to allocate resources that, perhaps if we have done a better management of the environment, we have been able to save ourselves. I, therefore, have to protect infrastructure, with train lines that also pass along the coast line. And we see, therefore, that... well, that they need not only planning, but the resources that we hope will also be available. In any case, I also wanted to make some considerations about what we would do. We shall abstain or vote against some of the articles which have been the result of transactions. In some cases, we don't especially disagree with what they're planting, but because the original text of the project already seemed better to us, huh? And, therefore, I am thinking, for example, that there has already been a proposal to change the term 'climate change' to 'climate emergence', which seemed to us to be better than 'climate change'. Because it's the problem. The "emergency" is the temporal effect, it's the temporal dimension, but the real problem is the climate change. And, besides, well, we consulted with people from the academic and university world who also considered it to be more important. Nor do we see clearly the creation of a new body and some point where we are talking about banning activities. It seems unnecessary that we are talking about banning activities, because activities must be authorized or not. Therefore, a law does not think that it should be laid down from the concept of 'ban', but on a regular basis which activities can be accepted or not and from here, therefore, already, with management, try to ensure that the result is as best as possible. Nor will we vote in favour of the canon that raises the law, since we consider that a canon must be a quantity set with a different criterion. Fixed on the basis of the characteristics of the use or activity and the effects it may have on the location of the implant, but not on the benefit, because, in the end, taxing a taxable base is more a tax than a tax. And we think we should work at a rate that... well, it might, in some cases, be more favourable to the Administration or less. The rest of her, we'll give her support. Let's hope it's a good instrument. That, as I said, is an instrument. Then it will be hot to develop public policies, investments, projects. And I finish, therefore, thanking Deputy Marc Sanglas for his good disposition. It's been a long time to see what we've been doing and to try to come to terms. Also to the Navy Bravo, who did the first part of this processing on behalf of Ciutadans, to the Iletrat and to parliamentary assistants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.147.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the return of MP Jordi Terrades, the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.148.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. The coast of Catalonia is one of the most important acts we have, isn't it? It is 826_kilometres of coast, from the tip of Falcó to the river Senia. And if we analyze the coastal strip of land, in these first hundred meters of coastline, we see that it is strongly urbanized between heavily compacted nuclei, but also with a more diffused urbanization in some parts of the territory. We're talking about almost 60 percent of the coast has urbanized traceability. It's not a phenomenon, I say, the deputy Sergio Sanz, it's not a phenomenon excluded from Catalonia, we find it in the rest of the Spanish territory, and also in the European Union, eh? But if from this analysis we did not shut down the Ebro Delta and the area of the Cape of Creus, which are heavily protected areas, with strong protection figures, we would be talking about that almost 80 percent of this coastal strip is between this broad definition of urbanized coast, huh? And if that's what we're doing to expand it, in this first five-hundred-metre band, we'd see that in terms of GDP and employment, employment, but residential occupation, too, it's important, huh? , very important, from the territorial point of view of Catalonia. You see, here, the import..., or we can all fold together an idea of the import of the economic value that represents the coastal strip. Now, the value of this strip today can no longer be valued exclusively in terms of added value or gross domestic product. I also need to incorporate environmental and social values into our reflections, huh? In line with what we're already doing with the recently approved Nature Agency Law, huh? The relevancy of coastal space, also of its order, has been a recurring theme in the European Union, which, although it does not have direct powers of order of the territory and of the coast, has indeed produced important documents: Recommendation 2012/413, I believe it was instrumental on the integrated management of the coast to Europe. Important too, this recommendation, because it puts the emphasis on the need for global vision and this look full for what it does to the ordering and subsequent management of coastal spaces. In Catalonia we already have a first tool in this line of protection of these spaces. Europe has also developed a protocol for the integrated management of the coastal areas of the Mediterranean, which was ratified by the Spanish State in 2010, a protocol in which the importance of the protection of the open coastal areas and the limitation of the extent of coastal urban development was already established and manifested. We remember that, from the decade of the 1990s to the escalate of the real estate cylinder, the growth of the urbanized soil was much higher than the growth of the population. Excessive consumption of soil to devote it to second-residency housing, which has, first, resulted in an oversized park that cannot be absorbed by the market; two, has speculatively increased square metre prices and, on many occasions or on many occasions, the one that has done so has continued to expel residents who cannot cope with these prices. And, besides, we also find ourselves in front of a certain banalization of free spaces. This law, therefore, is part of the dynamic of active conservation within this European territorial strategy. It will allow, through the instruments that define the law, to identify better the costers of environmental, territorial and protective value before natural or induced risks. Natural risks perfectly defined in the third Climate Change Report and which, in this case, affect the conjunction of these 826 kilometres of coastline that we have in Catalonia, and that we have already been able to prove with all its cruelty and effectively in the past times – Gloria was a clear example of this – and where urban areas have experienced them first hand, the dangers that we have in front of us, right? And as the Climate Change Law already defines, we need not only to make active policies to mitigate the effects of the climate change in which we are immersed, but also to adapt, in the Catalan context, to the consequences of climate change with policies and resources. But it is not just a matter of identifying, such as regulating actions through another law, which is the law that can regulate, which is the law of territories. It is a clear compromise to address the new Law of Territories in the next legislature. For our parliamentary group there will not be any left. In fact, one of the first steps we will start when we govern will be this. It is no longer worth taking advantage of the law accompanying the budget to make small additions to the current Law of Urbanism. Because we have new realities, a new law of territories. This law does not only guide, it also defines lines of management and empowerment – we value it very positively – the gatherings in a more effective way than they have until now in the management of the coast. We find ourselves before a new degree of co-responsibility from the local world. With some of our papers that have been accepted, and that I thank the bill's constituents for this effort of approximation, what we do is also strengthen the role of the assemblies if they want to exercise it. We think he does want to exercise. This is an important law, we manifest it, but the urban management of the coast and the way to rethink some fringes we have to do it, I repeat it, through the urban regulations that define us normative paradigms, through, we repeat it again, of a new law of territories. Finally, to insist also on the need for integrated management of our coastal zone; it is indispensable, from our point of view, the joint work of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, the Government of Spain and the local administration to strengthen – because all three have skills in this area – the coherence and effectiveness of strategies on the Catalan coast, counting at the same time with the collaboration of the various agents who see, work, use and are connoisseurs of the territory, thus introducing rationality in the preservation of our coastal system. Thank you, Members and Members, and announce that we will vote in favour of the conjunction of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of Deputy David Cid, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.150.0	President, counselor, let me begin this intervention with a double grace. The first thanks to Congressman Marc Sanglas as they put of the law and, above all, to thank him for his willingness to dialogue and improve the law, to be able to work it, and also to be able to agree, also to some disagreement, but in any case, to aggravate the work. And also thank Congresswoman Gemma Geis for her willingness to find agreements, proposals and better text of this law, right? Initially, we found ourselves before a coastal law of order. We understood that it was a very technical law, basically a division, we understood, that it was purely a competition between the Generality and the assemblies. And we, at the beginning of the legislature, had also been transferred to the same territorial councillor who needed a law protecting the coast. I think I remember even at the first meeting of the councillor, don't I? I would say, with a very good direction to prove or, in any case, to promote a non-sustainable plan of soil, which I believe was essential and, also, that I believe I should put in value. But also, there's a lot of time left to do, huh? We continue to have territorial conflicts in many municipalities, for example, especially the situation of Begur, which is very complicated, with projects that are laying in the way, that have a very important environmental impact, that affect, at last, no? , lands of Xarxa Natura 2000 as, for example, Puig del Montcal. Or, finally, also, in this case, in Palamós, with the situation of the ancient hotel of Abella Fosca, right? So we understand and understand that it is obvious that we have to work for a real law of coastal protection, that we have to develop even more the Pla director of unsustainable soils and that, in the end, we also have to continue to work for the protection, in this case, of the Catalan coast and, specifically, also of the gironine comarques, right? We in this bill of law, which, as we say, with the intention of moving from a law of order of the coast to a law, also of protection of the coast... It is true that at the beginning of the law we did not oppose it, we let it proceed, but we also understood that it was good to try to improve the law. Probably wouldn't be the last point we'd want, but it's a better point that you'll allow us to process the law and, in any case, find points of agreement on some aspects, right? Basically, we presented five large packages of papers. The first is to adapt the law to the climate emergency and climate change situation. I think it was a necessity that, initially, the law was probably short in this sense. And, therefore, we, therefore, also made statements, for example, because the law was adapted, right? , to the climate-emergency context and adapted to the Climate Change Law that was approved in 2015. Second thing I think it's relevant to highlight is the..., situate, right? , diguessim, the distance, the influence of the public domain at a thousand_metres. I think it's certainly one of the elements that expresses the greatest will. And to recognize, too, the will of dialogue on the part of the layman as well as of the other group that supports the Government, which can be expanded, but can never be reduced. Probably, this is the most symbolic point we've managed to incorporate into the law, and I think it's what makes it easier, in any case, for us to abstain. The third element or the third package is to try to limit urban concentration in certain points of the territory, which I believe is also an important element, and which is worth highlighting. And the two final elements. In any case, the fourth is the creation of the Conservatori del Litoral de Catalunya. I think you are, don't you? , a good proposal that collected the requests of SOS Costa Brava, and that therefore also, in this case, placed the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP. And, above all, with the ability to re-finance. Surely, we were pleased that it was more concrete, from more powerful fiscal figures, but in any case, as a means of public procurement of only, as it has, for example, passed, or is passing, to France. And it's true that the back law that can be financed through the assumptions of the Generality, but we've been pleased that there are final tax figures that donate more robust, haven't we? That's what I'm talking about. There are some who are in the law. In this sense, I also want to express the will on the part of the Sanglas deputy, as they put of the law, to recognize, therefore, obviously, also, the best that has been incorporated into the law, right? And, finally, also highlight a _five point, which was to try to limit some type of, above all, basically, also recreational activities. I'd say, too, after all, wouldn't I? , which are private, annoying and incompatible with the environmental values of platja areas, especially protected areas. I mean, speaking in silver. So, what this article is looking for is trying to end up with situations that had occurred, right? , of macro-fests, basically, between the land between platters and, at last, at the aquatic level with boats that make macro-fests in protected areas. He had passed, for example, to the shipman of Massoni, at the level of Cap Roig, right? I think there's also some things we've got left behind, all the way. Well, it's always more and more and we obviously want to move forward in the protection of the coast, but anyway, well, I think there's been a turnaround. I'm sure we'd like to do one more ambition. In fact, we have registered some items, for example, to apply nine restrictions to the nine constructions and expansions of the port. It is true that in the previous Law of ports we have claimed, in any case, that there are no new ports, but we do understand and claim, in this case, from different ecological entities and different, for example, municipalities do not allow to continue, repeatedly, expanding the ports of Catalonia. But, anyway, well, it was a matter of improving the law, and it didn't end up accepting, did it? Therefore, in our case, we started from a law that we understood to be a basically technical law, that from the start it was not our project, it was difficult for us to reach, in any case, a shared element. Therefore, we in principle and in the end, so we understood that it was best to abstain - there, and recognize the work that has been done by the proposing group. I think the law has positive elements and, therefore, we have advanced. Even though we, from a good start, have been pleased that we have had a law not to order the coast, but a law to protect the coast. And anyway, I think we've got a lot of work to do. I think the adventures that have taken place in this legislature have the feeling that we have to go out and get a little. That's to say, we've had to pull them out of the mobilization of different social agents, especially, also, from SOS Costa Brava. We have the feeling that a little bit of a government has gone to trailer, huh? , of our demands. Above all, from when we started, for example, at his first moment that the Councillor gave us that, in any case, there were practically no problems at the territorial level, right? Therefore, in any case, thank the work of the settlers, also the good will and the good disposition. In any case, we say, our reflection is that if we really want to shut down the problem of the management of the coast to Catalonia, we understand that it is a change of government at the level of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the deputy Natalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.152.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Good morning, Counselor, Vice President. Well, we also want to start with a grace. I believe that the whole process of working on this law is an example of work that is more used in cooperative logic than in a logic of exclusively political confrontation. And the symptom of that is that today the law is much better than when the bill proposed for the government and the Department of Territories came in. And in this, as has already been said, it is particularly or must be highlighted both the work of the rapporteur, Mr Marc Sanglas, and also of Congresswoman Gemma Geis. Therefore, we want to thank you for the first question. Also gratify the work of the Iletrate, the Manager, the Linguistic Advisory, in order to be able to asolve a final text in conditions. When we started the debate about this, I read here in Parliament... in fact, it's one of the first laws, and it seems that it may also be the last; we don't know that. When we started this debate we put on the table the question of the title, right? , that the title doesn't do the thing, but it did mean it. At that time we were talking about coastal law and we added the need to incorporate two questions: the idea of "recovery and protection". In the text of the law we have incorporated the idea of protection, which we believe is one of the fundamental questions when we talk about this law being better than it came in. That is to say, we have not only incorporated protection issues into the title of the law – it would be a small symbolic mass – but also thanks to the cooperative work, as we say, and to the elements of the different groups, we have been able to incorporate protection issues into the article, and including recovery, including the idea of "recovery", which we did not put in the title, but in the presentation of the article there is present. We, too, when we started the debate on this law we said that the project presented for the Department of Territory had a global view of the economic mass law, treating the coast as a commodity subject to the exploitation of the tourism sector. We also criticized the environmental issue, which was relegated to a _second term and always subordinated to the logics of the market. And, in the third place, we also pointed out that the ability to participate in social movements and entities, as well as in municipalities, was very little or almost null. And, certainly, in these three areas, in the idea of not having an exclusively economicist and coastal commodity image, we have improved. We've improved on the environmental issue. Almost no mention was made of climate emergency in the first text of the text, and now it has a much higher role when it comes to climate emergency. We must bear in mind, as has already been said, that the third Climate Change Report warned that the rising sea level was nearly four centimeters in the next decade. Therefore, it was essential to add to it and, in this sense, it improved. We understand that the risks arising from the climate emergence as they have..., it means that you have a look at adaptation measures and to fight it. We believe that we have been short on issues related to the recovery of the sedimentary dynamics, such as some ecosystem protection issues. Despite that, we have advanced. With what I'm putting on the table, everyone could think that the CUP should vote because, certainly, they've approved or we've reached agreements in a lot of the papers. In fact, of the twenty-seven items that we presented, twenty-two have been accepted in full or traded, especially in the case of ponència. But we, in the end, will abstain. We'll abstain because we don't think we've made it far enough. As Deputy David Cid also said, this project, so on entering, is not a project that is ours, it is a project that came from many shortcomings, which we have certainly improved in many aspects and I will highlight one concrete one further, but we should have gone a little further there. Also, and we want to say it with all frankness, we will abstain from this bill for a global issue and for as long as we find ourselves in the legislature. We are not satisfied with the work done by the Department of Territories. We are not satisfied with the work of Councillor Damia Calvet. Therefore, our abstention is also a wake-up call to a department that works on landslides; that many often work on landslides in the communities and in the local world, and that works on social movements in defense of the territory, especially the ecologists; that proclaims climate emergency, but does not accompany social and popular demands. And that's why we'll also abstain. You'll tell me we're talking about the law now and I'm talking about naps. No, no, It is important, for us, that when we talk about protecting the coast, we talk about social movements that, in recent years, and in this legislature, have had a very important and a very critical voice with the policies of the Department of Territory. I'm talking about SOS Costa Brava, I'm talking about the platform Aturem la C-32, I'm talking about a lot of collectius, I insist, of the veins and veins that don't feel represented, and that the department looks at them by the scale. In fact, and I will end with this question, the next August 4th will be two years of the creation of the SOS Costa Brava platform, a platform that came up with two main objectives: one, the deployment of the Pla urbanistic director of unsustainable soils, which, in the words of the same platform, "is an important step forward, but an insufficient step still to take the Costa Brava from the danger zone. He knows perfectly well that the platform has also submitted attachments to the department's proposal. Of the objectius, I said. The PDU and an objective_second that considered the platform SOS Costa Brava essential: the creation of the Conservatori del Litoral. And, certainly, today I think we can celebrate because we have managed that, through this law, we mark a term, a year, to create the Litoral Conservator, that we apply a minimal presuppositional relationship, but already know perfectly well the Lord Marc Sanglas, the Lord Gemma Geis, that we want to associate the economic endowment of the Litoral Conservator with the tourist tax. And you will also ask: "Can it be to sweep things away? No, no, We understand, from our political logic, that the negative effects and externalities of tourism on the territory that is backward, and one of the forms, precisely, is to link the tourist tax to the need to acquire only threatened from the Catalan coast at a time, and I quote textually a statement from SOS Costa Brava, "at a time when international investment funds have focused their interest on the coast, and as the urban and construction pressure has intensified throughout the coast. We insist on it: we believe that it is important that progress is made in this law. We believe that we have worked cooperatively, we believe that the law is much better than when it began, that there are some mechanisms that can help us to protect the Catalan coast much better, but I will also remember the figures given by the MP of the PSC, that more than 70_per_cent of the Catalan coast is urbanized, and that means an emergence, means a reality that with the Law of ports we also were able to reach agreements that pose a question that is obvious: that it is necessary to protect the coast if we want to continue or if we want to keep it and value it as it is. Thank you all very much. With everything I've asked you, the CUP - Cry constitute we will abstain most of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it is the turn of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.154.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. This climate of cooperation or confrontation must also depend on the number of accepted papers from one group or another, than a group to which they have accepted twenty-two papers says that it is a climate of cooperation I can hear; they will understand that another group to which they have only accepted two papers is not exactly in the same situation, right? I could practically finish this intervention by saying: did you hear the arguments given by the two last spokespersons, the common ones and the CUP? So exactly the opposite is our argument, and that too, somehow, prefixes our position. We started with a text that kept the balances that are needed very well. There were balances, and we can't look at the coast just from a point of view of the environment. In general, we cannot talk about sustainability only from the environmental point of view. These last few months we are always laying a dichotomy in relation to health and economics, and the solution is neither one nor the other. There can be no salvation without economy and harming salvation, or there can be economy and, if there is no salvation, it also affects the economy. Exactly the same dichotomy that we have between the preservation of the environment and the generation of wealth through the natural richness that offers us the environment and offers us the coast. And this duality, in the bill that the government approved and that came to Parliament, is maintained. But when we see the changes that have been made in this bill in the poencies, in the different poencies, it ends up having a very marked – very marked – argument, starting with the name. Coast planning is not just the protection of the coast. The order of the coast is to combine the necessary protection of the coast, because we agree, that certain coastal protection figures are necessary, but it is also necessary to ensure that there can be activities, because it is a source of important economic and environmental wealth, and we need to know how to combine the two aspects of our coast. There have been changes in the law that we are doubting that, indeed, this balance can be maintained and, therefore, I say some of these things. The first is the change of name of the law, which is not only for this, but after the establishment of the two orderly figures, which was initially the Pla d'ordination of the coast, which was the pla, let us say, general urbanist director on the coast, on the general criteria of the coast, also introduces protection. So listen, we're not satisfied with this, that I have this bias and that I have this one vision, because we understand that the vision has to be more global. Another element about which we wanted to express discrepancies already in the original text, and which we maintain discrepancies today, was about the canon. We play the 3_per_cent joke, and I keep the 3_per_cent. I don't know what they're obsessed with, with 3_per_cent. But the real discrepancy is that it's about the benefits. I mean, if it's about benefits, it's not a canon, it's a tax. That is to say, the canon must be a price for the affect that a certain activity has on the medium, and this affect cannot be measured in relation to the benefits that a certain activity has. Therefore, a deep discrepancy over the use of the term "canon" over benefits, which, of course, benefits that bear with other figures, and which, therefore, can be called double taxation, but it is not conceptually that we do not think it is application. Another element of discord introduced through the discussions: the expansion of the zone of influence of the public maritime domain of five hundred, which is with the Law of costs, to the thousand_metres that are attached here, and, moreover, not reduceable, only expandable. What effects will or may have a measure of these characteristics on the same coast? He didn't evaluate himself, he didn't evaluate himself. And, therefore, before the lack of assessment of the effects that this expansion of the zone of influence can have, we prefer not to support it. And I don't think you should adopt a measure like that in a law without having very clear what effects this can have. We felt much more comfortable with five-hundred-metre affectation and, in any case, expandable before certain circumstances. Another discrepancy. So, miri, with the figure of the Litoral Conservatori as the mechanism of public purchase of land on the coast. I, miri, there are two motius, basically two motius. Clearly, yesterday I was blaming the government for not investing in housing. Or, I can't now endorse... Or, a government that doesn't invest in habitat is committing itself through a law to buy only on the coast to preserve it. So, look, excuse me, at this point the priorities cannot be buying only to protect you; at this point the priorities must be one another, and they are another. Therefore, we do not think it necessary – we do not think it necessary – at this moment, that the law is this figure to acquire only to protect. We think there are other priorities. But there is one important conceptual element: the fact that the Administration wants to acquire only that it is necessary to protect what it does is to find the incompetence of the same Administration to impose the urban figures necessary to protect the coast. Therefore, in some ways, it is the expression of a lack of competence on the part of the Administration, the expectation of having to acquire only in order to guarantee protection. Globally, and I told them... gave Mr. Blood the availability. Obviously, availability is all, it's all, but two accepted items, two transactions. You have preferred to agree with Podemos and with the CUP, and hence the final result of the bill, with this bias, which is not with any of the other parties, because neither the Socialist Party has accepted papers, nor Ciutadans. You've had this fight. And therefore, since we do not share it, we will not be able to vote in favour of this law. We shall abstain, we shall abstain; and some things, as I have quoted them, we shall vote against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, to fix the position, has the word, for a maximum time of seven minutes per parliamentary group, the deputy Marc Sanglas, of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.156.0	Thank you, Vice-President, Counsellor. Let me begin this intervention by thanking Member Gemma Geis, who we have worked closely to make this project possible and, therefore, we have acted, let us say, in a coordinated way, in an attempt to make proposals and improve the text and, therefore, wanted to make this public grace. We're done with this job, like I said before, happy, happy because when we finish a bill in this Parliament, that in the last few legislatures it's been hard to finish a bill... so let's just say, we're done and see that a bill is successful, and I'd say we're happy, but we're not satisfied. I can't be satisfied, huh? Mr. Cid and Mr. Sanchez, we can't be satisfied because we haven't managed everything we've been looking for in this bill, as political consensus. And you know that we've worked hard, that we've made proposals, and that, so let's just say... You said, Mrs. Sánchez, in the end: "It is not a matter of law. So you know it's hard, because it's a starting point, and you used to take the example of SOS Costa Brava, who said: "The Pla de Sols is not sustainable. It's happening. It has approved the Pyrenees and is taking place at the level of the Costa Brava. The subject of conservatories, we have conservatories. So, I think, I insist, that I had volunteered, we insisted, we insisted until the last moment. We hope we have not been overly weighed in both cases, because we have tried it on land, sea and air, as is usually said, if we are allowed to express ourselves, and it has not been possible. Therefore, the degree of satisfaction is not, as long as we do not have this political consensus. For what it does to the content of the law, yes, yes, happy, satisfied, and the later they see the intervention of Mr. Santi Rodriguez, right? Those who, let's just say, from the state government promoted the urbanization of everything that could have been wrong and right, that Mr. Santi Rodriguez doesn't like this one. And I think some of the bars and some of the issues that you've raised don't come up with, anyway, with some of the issues that you've made, but I'll still try to stick around. And with all the love for Mr. Cid, and I'll leave this question, and Mrs. Sànchez, but in any case, I refer you to an Arabic proverb that says who wants to do something finds the way and who doesn't want to do anything but find an excuse. And I think that in the interventions that you have made, you have found excuses for not supporting a law that, in the background, you may have approved, because they include many of the contributions that there are in this law. Therefore, let me hide with all the" dear, Mr. Cid, do not get angry, I mean that, in any case, in your case, there are three items that we have not incorporated and we have incorporated, you explained. And with Mrs. Sandez, too. In any case, we believe that the text, with the incorporation of the items and with the incorporation of inputs that have made the different people who have appeared, gives the bill greater capacity, greater representativeness and after that we think it makes it more and better in many aspects. The initial, right? Surely, an element that is changing the title of the law, accepting a common thread in the sense of changing the law, with this will that this change in the name of the law also meant a change in the content. As Mrs. Sánchez explained, it's not a make-up theme, it's not a cosmetic theme, let's just say, of a change, but clearly with a will, huh? Mr. Rodriguez, it's also a biaix, it's certainly a biaix, but it's protection and management, and order. And we think that this woman... because it's time, because there's a fight against climate change, that we think that all public administrations need to work hard to make it happen. We believe, therefore, that this change in the law, in the title of the law, I believe it incorporates this element of clearly which is the will of this legislative project. We believe that this new legislative text also develops those exclusive competences of the Generality in this matter, and goes in line with what European canons recommend, such as integrated coastal management. And we are satisfied, too, and was expressed by Mr Terrades, to whom I take advantage to thank him also for his support of the law: it strengthens the role of the assemblies, and that is what we wanted. There was a clear... there were some exhibits in the initial project. I believe that it has improved with some incorporations from some point of view, from the need, let us say, that the reports that issue the joints are binding respect of what the Protection and Ordering Plan of the coast means in its environment. As a result, the gatherings are not converted into big spectators of what goes on in their plagiarisms, but are active agents. They can do so through, let's say, what is the Coastal Ordination Plate, the Coastal Protection and Ordination Plate, and then through a figure as important as the Use Plate. So, we think you're here, huh? In this element, let's say, of management where the assemblies must be able to dispose of these tools in order to be able to manage that day-to-day, for which we say, for an element of competing competitions in that area where there are sometimes some uncoordinations. They think you're important, too, huh? – and I have emphasized this, or I have commented on it in my previous presentation – a new additional provision that empowers the assemblies, in the case of emergencies and in the case, let us say, of situations of force majeure, in order to be able to act on this area. The subject of the canon we believe that..., and we have tried until the last moment, to bind it to the conservative, because it seemed to us that it was a good formula to establish..., that someone criticized us that the conservative was born without resources, and, therefore, could not do it absolutely anything. We thought that, linking these moneys that were already in the initial project, and I wanted to remind you... therefore, there was already a clear will that there was money and resources to drive policies in coastal and protective planning. So it seemed important to us that they were there. In any case, some elements that I would like to highlight, besides, let's say, the urbanistic instruments: the theme of the enlargement of the terrestrial public domain. We think we're on the line of... let's face it, you don't have to absolutely regret that I'm not going through a lot of municipalities right now. In some municipalities this strip is already superior to the five hundred_metres, through, let's say, the same municipal urban plans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.157.0	You're running out of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.158.0	... therefore – yes – here and in this sense there must be no problem, but, in any case, it is a good intention to plan with a much wider scope, with a much broader view than the management element. And, finally, the element of the conservative, which we think is a good way, let's say, to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.159.0	Ahabi, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.160.0	...this territory, and, therefore, let's say, to manage and create tools... [[The first vice president removes the use of the microphone at the time and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.161.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it's the turn of Deputy Gemma Geis, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.162.0	Well, good morning, president, deputies, deputies, councillor Calvet. We are discussing this bill, the Law on the Protection and Ordering of the Coast, and feminism has taken that phrase of "personally there is political, and in this case it would be personally there is political, and research is also political, and research is also personal. Therefore, today I read to me also connect with President Puigdemont, with the way I met him, connect me with the sense of making country, in the sense of making a useful policy for the country and for its people. I would also like to start by giving thanks and recognizing the work of all the deputies and deputies that we have participated in, in the debate. The deputy Cid knows that we have debated and shared objectives; with the deputy Natilia Sànchez, that I also thank her for her words. He was talking about co-operativeism; the way I work is my way of working. I don't know if politics carries much, but it's my way of doing it, and I don't know how to do it any other way, and so I appreciate this public recognition. And also at the post and the editor of the law, Marc Sanglas, that I think we've made very good team, and it would be desirable that it was in many other areas. Also to the Secretary General, to Agustí Serra, for his facilitations in converting this bill into the law that has ended now. Also to the deputy of Ciutadans, for his considerations. And especially to Congressman Terrades, who we have discussed and I believe that even we have enjoyed discussing urbanism, learning, and having a lot of respect for it, and therefore also wanted to make this public recognition. Two context considerations. The first one. I don't want to normalize in what context we approve of this law. This law was... it went down in the context of 155. And when Councilman Rull visited the prison, he often spoke of one of the urban problems of the coast, the Costa Brava and the adventures of this law. And, therefore, I also want to keep it, I wanted to keep a record, especially, because we had talked about it a lot at Lledoners. This law is approved at this time, which is a political context, which I already understand, which also makes me bear no more than I should have for the number of items we have accepted, for the number of transactions we have worked on, for the purposes of this law. This law fits into this pre-election context, which everyone says, right? But I think it's a country law, a law that he does is to listen to a lot of experts, from biologists, architects, engineers, jurists, who have made us see five mechanisms, of five instruments to provide this law to make it an advanced law. I, Mr Santi Rodríguez, therefore, like not to share many of the objectives that you have raised with this law, above all someone who, from the Government of the Spanish State, received the Auken report, from the European Union, which left and described fantastically who was the urban policy of President Rajoy and the Government of Aznar. Therefore, no problem with the criticisms you have made. But this read what it does is protect. Indeed, Congresswoman Sánchez said: "We have changed the title of the law. But the title doesn't do the thing. If we had changed the title of the law, but to the law, effectively, there are no protection mechanisms, so it would not serve absolutely nothing. And this read what he does is also a demand that they made to our fellows, who spoke of the need to recover the plagiarism. In fact, we make a classification of platges in natural, semi-urban, urban and special protection platges, which will need to be developed in the regulatory way. Another obsession we have had is the need for collaboration between administrations. Who has a strict knowledge of urbanism knows that urbanism cannot be planted in the highest sense, because the competitions are between states, autonomous and joints, and in this sense, if we want a real protection of the coast, the joints, the mayors and the mayors are our allies. So that, in the two mechanisms of the new planning instruments, no? , which we establish, therefore, one of them makes the participation of the assemblies still binding. And for us it was absolutely important that you had this piece of concertation with the local administration. This law is also part of the policy of the government of the urban director's plan to review the unsustainable soils of the Girona coast, which is now said to be very easy and always required, must be political pressure, right? , and the pressure to control more, but that avoided more than fifteen thousand habitats us in areas of natural interest and landscape. I disagree with the view expressed by the Member of Parliament Santi Rodríguez: it must be compatible, at least in the model of a country that we defend, to buy more public only to protect the coast and to buy habitat; I think it must be absolutely compatible. When referring to the introduction of the Litoral Conservator I studied the figure of the Litoral Conservator, because the Catalan, Spanish, urbanist right, not much of the French urbanist right, for example, urbanist plans. And the figure of the Litoral Conservator, therefore, the financing is through the sponsorship, and when you go to the web page you can see what is the financing of the Conservator of the French Litoral Conservator, and I believe that the proposal we make from the Parliament of Catalonia is a public proposal, because there is a public commitment on the part of the Government of the Generality. And to me, personally, therefore, in the past Ple we made a moratorium on the tourist tax and seemed, to me, to agree, to the context that we have of pandemic, not to link the Conservator of the Litoral and its presuppositional endowment to some tourist taxes that at that time, to Parliament, in the last Ple, we approved a moratorium. Importantly, there are also two instruments: the Coastal Protection and Management Plan, in its consideration of urban planning; the use plans of the coast and the beaches. These are the two instruments. And I think that one of the measures, which is a measure that will have an impact on this protection, is the enlargement, said Congressman Bloods, of the domain of influence, of the public maritime domain from five hundred to thousands_metres. I believe that this is a country proposal, a proposal that this Parliament will, therefore, approve in its large majority, and I am not absolutely convinced. And finally, this law establishes a series of purposes: to prevent and reduce risks and natural effects, to prevent and mitigate climate emergence, to limit access to platters to preserve biodiversity, to preserve protected species, to adapt coastal areas to climate change. And all this, in the framework of this need compatible with the economic development and with the progress of the people who live on the coast of Catalonia, because the GDP data also indicate that we need to age for their progress. Therefore, we are not absolutely convinced. And finally, at the beginning of my intervention I spoke to him about the personal thing that is political, and I think that this law allows us, all those who believe in nature, that we like to enjoy the coast of the sea, respecting our biodiversity and the balance between economic dynamism and natural value..., we have as the country a law that allows us to take a step forward. Surely, there could have been a lot of things, but what we can't doubt is that this is a step forward, and I'm very happy that Together for Catalonia is voting for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability asked for a brief intervention. So, you've got the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.164.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs. I will try to do this briefly, but I cannot, in any case, point out that we are again ahead of an exciting moment, a moment that I would probably like to describe as "historic for the Department of Territories and for the Government of the Generality and, ultimately, for the country, because with very little time we have been able to approve two basic standards, two laws that conform to a true arrival of what is called, at the level of international organizations, "Nature-based solutions: the Agency of Nature, or also this coastal law, isn't it? , so necessary, these solutions based on nature, in order to have a better future. I would like to thank all the interventions of all those who preceded me in the word. I would especially like to thank the work of the speakers: Mr. Marc Sanglas and Gemma Geis – Mr. Marc Sanglas, accompanied by Gemma Geis. Thank you very much, Marc, for the consensus work that has been done, so that we can bring this bill forward. And, obviously, also to thank the whole of the interventions of the MPs Sergio Sanz – before, therefore, this topic had been brought to you by Mrs Marina Bravo, effectively – by Mr Jordi Terrades, by Mr David Cid, by Mrs Natalia Sánchez, and also by Santi Rodríguez. It's been a long time, in short, so I would say that it's positive, with nuances, obviously, and definition of positions, but it's been a long time that demonstrates the importance of this bill that we're taking to the vote today. Congratulations, therefore, on the work done by this Parliament. Many thanks, because I insist that this will be an essential management tool. Today, with this approval of the Coast Ordering Law, I believe that we are laying the foundations for a new coastal governance, a territory yielded that is very important in the configuration, therefore, of our social and economic structure, as it passes to many other countries of Europe and the world; a territory that is from Portbou to Alcanar, twelve Comarques, seventy-six municipalities, and that does not only have a very large population size, but it is also one of the main activities of our natural heritage – this is essential, without it being said, therefore, surely, this has been approached in some other way – but it is also one of the areas in which more human activity is concentrated, also it is said: human activity, residential activity, and also economic activity. And this dichotomy, nature and social and economic progress, economy and biodiversity, is especially now on the table– these days are on the table, these days, these weeks, these months–, because the pandemic, precisely, the Covid-19 pandemic, makes us listen, sometimes, to certain little friendly arguments of sustainability. To say that, in economic recovery, everything is worth it. No, precisely in economic recovery, orientation to the green agenda; precisely, because we have proven that health and biodiversity are intimately related. Yesterday's approval of the Commission's document for Economic Reactivation and Social Protection, Coreco, I would particularly like to mention a large number of measures linked to the economic transition; this is also the name we have given to this part of the Plan for Economic Reactivation and Social Protection. In fact, more than half the budget estimated for this plan, which demonstrates this government's irrefutable commitment to the green agenda. This law is also an exhibition. After forty years, the Government of the Generality has drawn up plans and programmes for the protection of the coast; they have also been named here in one of the interventions, the PDUs, without going further, the first and second. But it's always been from a perspective, say, segmental, isn't it? , segmented, partial, distinguished between the terrestrial maritime public domain of the rest of the coastal space, and this we have seen as, including Europe, marked that it had to be done in a different way, it had to be done in its entirety. And, therefore, the order of the coast, from then until today, has focused on the confrontational spaces on the coast. We have other problems, too, about this same space, for example... that have made us impossible, huh? , to be able to give answers – imposed or limited, to be able to give answers – rather effective, such as, therefore, the competitive distribution, or have not added to us, to survivors, right? , such as, in effect, the climate change, the climate emergence or the effective preservation of the most sensitive areas of our coast, also with punctual measures, times of purchase, times of management of these most sensitive points. But in any case, the law that we approve today wants to capture this situation, to have this holistic, complete look, on the coast, insists on it, also marked by the European directives, which have been, eh? So far, until this approval of this law, conditioned, we say so, right? , for this competitive distribution, which we have often also seen that this competitive distribution was stretched from the reality that was being managed. So, what do we do with this law? So, in the first place, we propagate the prey of decisions to the citizens. And it does, obviously, with nine ways. Eines – Mr. Sanz makes reference to the law as an eine – that allow us to advance towards this integrated management of our coast. We give more prominence to the municipality – Mrs. Geis also in ugly reference – and, in short, we only need a new model of management, more ambition, more participation, more close to the people – more close to the people–; this is essential. And to do that, and now I want to break down three or four points of the law, we're counting on these new sorting instruments. It's been explained, hasn't it? The first, the most outstanding, the first vector I would like to highlight, the first component is the Protection and Ordination Plate of the coast for the conjunct of the territory. A protection plan that will then also result in plans of use of the coast and the landings at the municipal level, which will allow for first order, order the conjunction of our coast and its uses without distinction, we said before, between the public maritime domain and the rest of the territory, as was the case so far, huh? ; with this separation we can't have this whole management. These plans, the Coastal Protection and Management Plan and municipal use plans, not only have prevention and mitigation of the effects of climate change, but also need to address their adaptation. This is a very important concept, also, obviously, far from the coming decades. Resilience is absolutely key to hearing the future that awaits us. We are not doing enough to prevent and mitigate, that so far has been the main object of much of the environmental legislation that we have developed from the government, and from the parliaments, also, obviously, we have to adapt to the new reality, that we already have here. According to a component that I would like to highlight: the law will be used to deploy for the first time – well, Mrs. Geis in ugly reference – a new classification of platters; a classification I would say more respectful with the diversity of our coast. It will overcome that of the typical and topical duality between urban and natural platges, and, therefore, it will allow to distinguish uses, occupations, capacity of load, that make compatible, in short, the preservation and the use of the coast by everyone. The law makes a remarkable effort to try, we say before, to lay down decisions to the citizen, it will equip us to all folds of major competitors, in the first instance, the assemblies, but also increasing the public participation, with the governing councils of the plagiarisms at the scale of Catalonia, and also municipal, representation of the administrations, the entities, the experts, who will go through the application of the instruments of the law and fix the guidelines for the management of the coastal spaces. I'm done. A third vector that I would like to highlight is the willingness that coastal spaces, which are the assets of everyone, can be managed with the greatest possible participation and consensus – managed, we say, right? – for which the project also aims to reduce administrative discretion in the making of decisions, and because the competitions, resolutions, plans and concessions, become assumed by a new collegiate organ, this organ to which you have also referred, which is the Litoral Order Board, a specific commission to deal with the themes of the coast. With obviously representation of the entire Administration, and also the participation of experts. A _quart concept– and I ended up –: we are aware that coastal planning policies, like all public policies, cannot develop without resources; without resources it is impossible to make political action. Therefore, yes, the law deploys a new exploitation channel of activities, which must revert to conservation, recovery and restoration of the same public maritime domain. It is, again, final environmental taxation, which allows us, therefore, to bring this legislation forward. And the last component that I want, therefore, to highlight, also the result of the effort of consensus to which many of you have referred..., this effort of consensus with which the law does not need in parliamentary processing has allowed to incorporate the compromise of creation, yes, of the Conservatori del Litoral de Catalunya, which will aim to safeguard, to recover the part of the coast most threatened by urbanization, by artificialization, from, yes, the public acquisition of soil, which can be produced from many different ways. In any case, Mr. Sanz referred earlier, and also a lot of you. It defines the law as an instrument, an instrument that must allow us, therefore, to make this management, yes, but ultimately it must be supplemented; it must be supplemented with other laws, with other instruments. Mr. Terrades has made reference to the Law of the Territory, he has made reference also that when you rule they will throw forward the Law of the Territory. Home, I'd like to say something, wouldn't I? , respecting, because, in any case, the Law of the Territory is willing to throw it away – we are willing to throw it away, aren't we? We cannot add contingencies because, in any case, the work that has been done so far includes fears like what we are dealing with today, that of the coast, so that we can also have a more complete view of the Law of the Territory. Or habitating themes, we have also worked habitating themes to be included in the Law of the Territory. We can't add to this will to bring forward the Law of the Territory fears of time, can we? I am sure that some may have made electoral or pre-election decisions, also in the decisions on voting in this coastal law, but in any case, I, as a counselor, only have a date, to work on the issues that surround the department, which is that of 21 December 2021. I only have this date. And, therefore, like the Government, yes, we hope that the Law of the Territory can pass through the Commission of Local Governments and we can take it to the Government at the beginning of the next session, the proper course, both government and parliamentarians, right? And there are other instruments, because, in fact, the Law of the Territory also inspires planning, for example, so the POUMs with urban decline or urban systems, or also – and with that I do – which are the unsustainable only master plans, which are like an advanced tool in this future Law of the Territory. Unsustainable solo master plans, of which we feel very proud, because, effectively, therefore, this had not happened so far, to launch a master plan to define unsustainable solos and to be able to manage them, on some occasions disclassifying, on some other occasions modifying their parameters. In any case, these unsustainable master plans... I insist we're not very proud. Fixin-s 'here, this divender 24 in the Commission of Urbanism of Catalonia culminates the one of the Pirineu, definitive approval, and we continue to work and our intention is also to be able to culminate the approval of the Costa Brava, that of the coast of Girona, a plate director of unsustainable soils that, in the case of the Costa Brava, therefore, acts on ninety sectors, and that declassifies fifteen_ thousand habitats. And the contribution of civil society, with all that the debate on the coast of Girona, of the Costa Brava, represents, is very remarkable, but I would like to remind you that this board of unsustainable soils has already taken off in 2015 – 2015 – and that, in some social approaches that have taken place on this part of the coast, it was about six sectors and, on the other hand, the board of directors has ended up acting on the coast. Therefore, an important law that we will approve today, if Parliament's vote so indicates – it still makes us think that it does – supplemented with many other tools that we need to develop in order to continue to pursue this policy of planning of the territory, of urbanism, based on nature. It is, in short, a matter of being able among all to leave to future generations a coastline, if possible, better than what we have inherited and contribute, from Catalonia, as we also said with the Agency of Nature, to the great planetary repte of preserving the territory and life on the planet in the future. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.165.0	Thank you, Counselor. After this intervention, we will open a turn proportional to the parliamentary groups if they so wish. Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right, so let's tank here the debate of this item number 11 of the order of the day, which I'll remind you that we will vote at the first hour of late. [[Question to the Government on economic management]] [[300-00283/12]] Let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the presuppositionary policy of the Generality..., which is formulated, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, by Mrs. Alicia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.166.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councillor, deputies and deputies, good day. President, go ahead, time. I realize, that, me, if I don't, I can run around here all day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.167.0	It was programmed for the government, yes. I'm watching her, not pateixi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.168.0	I don't pate, more than anything I didn't put myself here to talk without a Well, good morning to everyone. Vice President... I know some of them would like to see if there's... [[Rialles.]] Well, off with the jokes. Well, I'm asking Vice President Aragones today. I wanted to tell you, Vice President, I'm making a little bit, since we're at the end of this parliamentary period, I don't know if at the end of the legislature, we'll see... but in any case, I did want to make a bit of a collection of these days. You, Republican Left, are part of, somehow..., you are in charge of what has happened in Catalonia since the year 2012. It was the December 2012 when Vice President Junqueras signed the first governance agreement with Convergence and Union. At that time, it marked a full road to a reference, which later we saw a full road quite destabilizing, seeing how things have gone and, above all, the hard consequences it has had for some people, but it is true that eight years have passed since that time – five, if we count the years in which you have taken responsibility in the economic sphere, right? And we'd be happy to ask what happened at this time, wouldn't we? In all these eight years, but above all in these five years. In this decade, has Catalonia almost improved? Are you in a better position than you were? And I think that with some items that I'm going to give you, I think you object, you could probably answer that question, right? That is to say that in these past years we have never been able to approve some assumptions a day, we have never been able to initiate the 1st generation with some approved assumptions. And, basically, I think that what it shows is a certain instability of the governments that there has been, of a certain uncertainty, because we never know exactly at what point we will have some assumptions, at what point there will be some choices; but, most importantly for us, a certain waiver to solve the problems of day to day, but also to face the challenges of the future. Above all, because, moreover, in these past six years, they have not been able to take advantage of economic growth to lay the structural foundations that should enable us today to be in a better position to cope with this health crisis, which is also social and economic. I want to give you some examples. Taking advantage also of some of the areas that you and Vice President Junqueras signed in an article on June 29th in La Vanguardia, and also taking advantage of the press wheel that you did yesterday with President Torra to present this pact for economic and social reconstruction, which I also want to say..., you said that you would like to remember it; at the moment, we have not received any tricks to find us with you. I think it would be good to convene the parliamentary groups. I think it's demeanor that President Sánchez summons the autonomous presidents to talk about these European foundations that will come to the State and see how, somehow, they can work in coordination with the territories. We would also like this 140-page document that I was able to fill out very quickly yesterday and today, so it was also communicated, if really what they want is our complicity because it can be pulled forward. But well, some fears, in education. Miri, in education, unfortunately, we have a school drop-out of 18_per_cent, the highest in the European Union, and also the lowest level of studies in all of Europe. Thirty-one percent of students between twenty-five and thirty-four years old, or people between twenty-five and thirty-four years old, have ESO or a lower. And if we're talking about school segregation, experts say that 36 percent of our students would have to switch schools to eliminate this segregation. And today we still don't have a presupposition to deal with school segregation. The same thing happens to us in knowledge topics. We have fewer assumptions or funding for universities than in the year 2010, we dedicate the same research resources today than in the year 2010 and, therefore, we have not been able to do so – in years of growth, not in years of crisis, as was done, for example, Portugal – therefore, to put resources in those structural areas that will allow us to emerge more strongly. And of course, one thing happened a few weeks ago, Vice President, that is that you unilaterally decided that the resources you were going to go to the research projects and research infrastructures of the Feder dedicated to the extraordinary expense of the Covid and, so far, there is no funding of these 104_millions from 2021 to 2024, which is what it would play. I hope that an agreement will finally be approved to govern the proper days because that's the way it is. But we'd like to make sure it's going to be that way. Because you say, "No, we'll make it up to you. Well, then, how? Because this is important. Research infrastructures, which are the ones that have to get us out of the crisis. Because they have to look for a vaccine, for example, or because they have to put the economy at the service, therefore, of knowledge with more competitiveness. If we're talking about infrastructure... now that there was Councilman Calvet here, I know it's hard that I left, right? You said in that article: "We want to connect the cities in thirty minutes to fifty kilometers from Barcelona. He's fine, but I wanted to remind him that investment resources have fallen considerably over the last few years. The year 2010 dedicated around €4,000_million to investments. Today is 1,370. So there was an important download of the investments. Then, if we look, for example, at what we dedicated to reelings the year 2010, 600_millions; the year 2020, 447. That's right, they've brought down a lot of investments. If we really want to make these connections, with which we would agree, we need to make them. You can tell me: "Oh, the State. Well, therefore, the State proposed the year 2019 to devote 2,200_million euros to infrastructure in Catalonia, and Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana to Congress did not let or process those assumptions. I say this because when, in addition, things are proposed for Catalonia, too, we torpedo them. And with industry, therefore, the cipher is also shameful. Of the 165_million we had in 2010, now we're in 50. Taking into account the transformation that the industry has to make, right? We've seen now, for example, how Nissan is so painted, that we'll see if he finally shuts down, right? And you tell us, you say, in this article: "Well, if we get 30,000 million euros from the European funds, we'll fix everything. Clearly, we don't seem to have the credentials to say that, because sometimes it's not just a resource issue. And I remember: the year 2017 the Generality had to return to the European Union 42_million euros from the youth guarantee because they did not have projects. Just when we were an autonomous community we had a very high youthful trek. Clearly, when a person sees these things, he says: "Well, then, I don't know. And then they see this document that we have known through the press, so, yes, you say they will spend EUR 31,700_million by 2032, but we also know exactly that these resources will come out, if you pretend that all of them are European funds, but the European funds will be very strict, they will want projects. And it makes us feel like there's no plans. Because, as I say, 2017 we had to make money from the youth guarantee. You say 30,000_million. Well, I don't know if it's 30,000. The truth is that yesterday it reached a historic agreement to the European Union. I think that finally, therefore, 140,000_million euros arrive in Spain: one part in transfers and another part in loans. I would also like to know what your position is, your opinion on this agreement that you have reached. Because I think it's very easy, don't you? Put your hand, stop your hand, which is what the Government of the Generality does many times. But more than stopping his hand, he must also make efforts. I don't know if we've made a lot of effort. It seems to me that the following visit, a little international close to Europe, was by President Torra and after the Foreign Councillor to the President of Flanders. I don't know if you've done anything else to help this deal. But, beyond asking, I think we also need to make efforts and help this move forward, don't we? The truth is... we'll see what he's explaining to me, but what we see in these past years is that Catalonia has clearly lost position. Look, two years ago, we were the first power for making GDP in Spain, and now we're the second. He passed us before Madrid. Madrid announced just now, an autonomous community, 2,200_million euros of inversion. Well, of course, we're at 1,300. In the end things are noticed, right? Five thousand companies left or moved their company, which you've always said doesn't matter. So, look, I'm very fond of following the Counselor Mas-Colell – and I think you have to have the same professional respect that I have, as the Master, so to speak, right? – said the other day in an interview, this week's chapter, just about this from the getaway of entrepreneurs, said: "The outflow of entrepreneurs has done us a lot of damage. Every day he didn't make us. But he did. Because the output image was fatal. Things like that can't be lost. Keeping the flag very high has had an economic cost. He's got it. And the possibility wouldn't have happened. If I extrapolate, I don't know how far I can carry the possibility in terms of economic cost, but I assure you that phonementalism will have a higher economic cost than possible. Don't you? It's okay for him to say, besides, that he was at a time in the government when the whole process started, right? Clearly, I think it's true that he's done wrong, I think we've lost some investments. The European Medicines Agency could have come, it didn't come. But we had a lot of elements because you ended up in Catalonia or Barcelona and, in the end, it wasn't like that. Then you explained to us the other day the extraordinary expense, for what you do to the Covid, with ciphers, well, we believe mass generals. He then explained to us that the minority of tickets came partly for taxes, but partly because he was lowering TV3 advertising or materials or there was a government debt that, I repeat, was in the presupposition of 2019 that you did not vote for. And the feeling that she gives us is, listen, how do they think they're going to face this crisis, these 32,000_millions that are coming from where they think they're coming from? What efforts will you make because, bearing in mind that we have before us a broken government, divided, that we do not know if it will call elections tomorrow, a government, moreover, that it has no complicity and that it does not open the dialog with the opposition, I do not know how you think to face this situation. And one, sometimes, so, say, listen, I think that ultimately here is not a topic of resources or competitions. Because, besides, when they have bad management, as is happening in the realm of salvation. I think it's a matter of transparency, honesty – a lack of a little – and ability. And I think you're eight years old, showing that you're neither able to face the country's future day by day nor to plan strategically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.169.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.170.0	Thank you very much, President. Also thanks to Parliament's services to make it possible, therefore, to develop this session with the utmost security. The Member of Parliament Romero has begun this inquiry by taking a certain temporal perspective, in fact, she left until the year 2012. And I think it's a good way to focus on it and, therefore, I'll also make a certain temporal perspective. 2012 has passed a regulation, which is the Law on Presuppositional Stability and Financial Sustainability, that what it does is to change from date to date the mark of the financing that we had held until that moment. Until that moment, what was important in the field of finance was to know, therefore, what part of the resources that were generated in Catalonia is reversed in the same Generality or in services and services to the citizen of Catalonia for other channels. From that moment on, what ends up determining who are the available resources we have is also the deficit, debt and expenditure rule. And, in fact, that law that she gives is a very great control ability of the Ministry of Heritage not only over the Government of Catalonia, but also over the rest of the governments of other territories, right? Therefore, this changes from up to down the mark– changes from up to down the mark. The change so much, for example, that today the Congress of Deputies has approved – and the Senate has approved – raising the deficit targets to 0.2_per_cent of GDP, which in our case would mean between 450 and 470 million euros, but the Ministry of Hisenda has not yet implemented them. And these 450_millions are very much needed to accompany all the efforts we are making to maintain the public services of the welfare state in Catalonia – greeting, social protection, education, security... –, which we are in charge of, the Generality, policies for economic recovery in areas such as industry, for example, that you mentioned. So imagine if it's important, the marc, how it's changed. You made a certain criticism of the years when Vice President Junqueras and I were in front of the Department of Economics and History, weren't you? And he said, "What have they done with economic growth? So of the economic growth that we have done is: u, to recover the highest levels of expenditure that has happened to the Generalitat of Catalonia – at these times we are at a much higher level of expenditure than 2010–; two, we have done it with a great difference, that is, 2010 we ended up with about 10,000_million euros of deficit and last year we ended up with a deficit of 0.56_per_cent of GDP. A little over 1,000 million euros. Therefore, imagine the difference that is to recover the level of expenditure overall, then we can enter the distribution, but overall, to recover the level of expenditure, but with a smaller deficit. Why was it important to do so with a minor deficit? Because it is important, in times of growth, therefore, that it is vaguely reducing the deficit precisely to be able to generate more deficit, to make policies more expansive, more countercyclical, in times of economic crisis, as we are now. Therefore, if the Generalitat de Catalunya, despite all the uncertainties, can be able, like tea, not only to maintain public services, but also to make policies to support those sectors most affected, it is because in the last few years this work has been done of right, of reducing the deficit in times of growth, because precisely in times of decline it is when it is necessary to do so. Countercyclical policy. The stabilising factor for public finances. It's absolutely fundamental. And that's what we've been holding on to. We also refer to the maximum level of investments of the year 2010, but we have to be honest, and those investments of 2010 were financed with public-private collaborations linked to concessions that, in a context like 2010, generated some high financing costs that we are still paying. Therefore, they are investments like 2010... That is, all the increase – all the increase – of investments that there was during a certain period multiplied by three what is done on the basis of the recourse to public-private collaboration that was not the presuppositional reversal. I'm not against this appeal, but I do think it's too much to use, because it's from continued economic growth scenes, and it's continued to go on to a dynamic of building infrastructure through concessions, with high financing costs, too high. Was it probably the only way to make these investments at a time when markets also began to close, to demand a return to finance, a higher type of interest for the debt? Probably. But maybe we had to stop, because it was one of the most important things that we've ever had and that we still have, and it's hard to recover the investment capacity. Therefore, in view of the future, we will have to make a difference. And this learning we have to hold. The City of Justice has been financed with a system of concessions, the commissariats of Mossos d'Esquadra, a good part of the jutjats, from the Transversal Eix to the C-35... And in many cases they involve, because they have to behave, a financial income for the dealer, because, if not, it does not arise. Therefore, making the infrastructure policy dependent on a system of concessions in the vast majority of them is a mistake. And that's what we're after, and we won't repeat it. And, therefore, I prefer to have a more limited investment policy than not to put a rope on our necks. Also because in the years that have come a part of the deficit that has ended up assigning to the Generality comes for the review of all those contracts from a point of view of the intervention or of the same Eurostat, which placed us at what they say "no, this does not count as a deficit..., we ended up situating ourselves within. Because in the end who is responsible for the Administration. In this sense, we presented, yesterday, with the President of the Generality, this plan of €31,000_million in twenty projects. Yesterday there was a very important agreement in the area of the European Union, an agreement that obviously, like all agreements, aimed at from the Catalan optics or the optics on the one hand, we wanted it to be better, more ambitious. I am convinced that all those who have signed the agreement would also want it. But it's a step forward, and it doesn't matter to me to recognize it: it's good news. It's good news for the European project, it's good news because for the first time there's a joint debt issue, which comes together more often than ever, than political intentions, and because they have resources – an important part in loans, but also a significant part in transfers – to advance towards a new economic and product model. What do we do in Catalonia? Be prepared. And, in a way, it coincided in time, and yesterday's coincidence, the same day, perhaps it can be said to chance, but the coincidence in parallel time is not, that... you reviewed all my public interventions respect the decisions that the European Union was to take from March until now. That's what we've been complaining about. Obviously, we do not participate directly, the Generalitat, in these decisions, but the Spanish Government knew that it counted on Catalonia's favourable opinion to move forward in this direction. And I knew perfectly well, because so it was public, that we wanted you to be transferred and not loaned. Therefore, in line with the interests. From here, what do we have to keep in Catalonia? We have to have plans. And so, that's why, the plan we presented yesterday... Obviously, a plan at twelve years' notice, with the uncertainties that it has today, it has to be an open plan, because there is no..., we're not dogmatic, but it's an open plan, but it incorporates twenty tractor projects. Twenty tractor projects, some of which we drink, let us say, agree that they already exist, like the National Pact for the Knowledge Society, other projects, but that they fit the priorities that this Parliament has put on the table, the priorities that the Government has taken on board, the priorities that we have agreed with social workers, employers and trade unions, and that also fit with the European Green Deal, with the same initial reactivation plan as proposed by the European Commission. So, what's our point? That from these resources that – 140,000_millions, according to the president of the Spanish Government announced – come to the State, we have to get a maximum for Catalonia, and we fix this goal of 30,000_millions of euros that they return to Catalonia with projects, because we know that only because we want them will not reach us, so they have arrived with projects. Twenty tractor projects containing the five strategic axes, four sectoral ones, one cross-sectional. I think it's an important step forward, that's important. I think we need to take advantage of this opportunity, and, come on, we are in a situation of uncertainty about the future, but for a band, with the inversion dynamic that we need to appeal to the European sphere, obviously, that we need to do, but after guaranteeing the public services of the welfare state. I think we have it in focus, knowing that there will be many difficulties, but we always take them. We have no problem accepting the difficulties. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.171.0	Thank you, Vice President. To make the answer, it's now back, five minutes, for the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.172.0	Thank you, President. Some things, huh? , on the mark given by the Vice President. But the mark is the same for everyone, vice president, for all autonomous communities, not just Catalonia. I say this because there are autonomous communities that devote more resources, more, say, euro per population, by city, to social policies, such as, for example, Castella and Lleó. I don't pose one of the governments for the socialists. We, Catalonia, are at the top of the resources for childhood, for example, of all Spain. I mean, the mark is for everyone, the goal of debt, deficit and expense rule is for everyone, and so it's good to know, it's good to say, but I don't think it serves, say, as an excuse to say that we couldn't do more. Among other things, because many years we have not fulfilled these goals of deficit and debt, have we not? In concrete terms, last year, 2019, we made a 0.56_percent deficit that now, so, obviously, will become a debt. You were talking about the deficit deficit of 2010. But I would like to say, of course, the debt in 2010 was EUR 32,000_million and the debt in 2020 is up to EUR 80,000_million. Clearly, the situation is different, and I... I liked it, huh? Don't listen to him criticizing that time, because in the end you were part of it, and I think it was a government that did a lot of things. Among others, vice president, if you have not made the investments you have described, schools, commissariats de Mossos, jutjats, hospitals, CAPs..., how would we be? Because then with the crisis I'm sure I didn't make them. We'll find Catalonia, and you know it, and you know it Republican Left, fatal, lacking in equipment, brutal infrastructure deficit, and it has to be a very important effort, because if not, I don't want to think about what happened in 2011-2012 in the middle of the crisis without these girl investments. So, that's what I had to say. I'm telling you, because we're all in. You talk about investments and you do it in a very conservative way, huh? , Vice-President, when he says: « Left is a transformative party, a progressive party. Home, we're not so conservative. It is that Madrid is making investments worth more than 2,000 million euros and we have not made 1,300. I think we should be a little more risky. Then, I say to him, when I tell him what efforts the General Council has made, I am talking about a tax reform, which has cost us a lot to get there, and that perhaps, before that, we will have some fruit. We haven't worked on something they don't like I'm saying, but it's a certain zero basis assumption. And look, I'll give you an example that, besides, the other day, Mr. Saved told me and I didn't like people. The CTTI, when he says: "It is that you have made coins bring money from the CTTI and put them in other places. Nor have they left much room for Parliament's Rules of Procedure, because they do not allow us to make changes in departments, but good. The CTTI, the year 2010, 285_million euros of pressupost, 234 people working. 2012 is a very significant downsizing of staff to outsource 50 per cent of its services, and is left with 150 people. So today, 2020, 517_million euros, 398 people, and I haven't been able to go any further, that's to say, scratch more, because the last memory I've had, that of transparency, is 2014. Listen to me, I'm not saying the CTTI isn't important; and so much, as it is, the digital, technological transformation of the Administration, but we also didn't see the deficiencies, during the teletreball and the pandemic era. So what I'm saying is, we can't do some audits, we can't review the expense, we can't aim to prioritize, we can't see if there are duplicates, and here we can also do a certain sluggish or redirect the expense. That's what I'm saying. Listen to me, after the financing system, that this year we have rejected like Catalonia 1,600_million euros more than the previous year, we are the autonomous community that has increased the financing system the more we have, nor we have assured ourselves as Catalonia to the Council of Fiscal Policy and Finance to try to reach a new agreement. We remember that they've always brought us more tickets to Catalonia, that's to say, normally when we play, if we use cards well, we win, right? I didn't even have him serve this one. That's right, I think it's true that we can do more things and we should do them from Catalonia. After you talked to me about this pact that they presented to us the other day. Well, we'd love to be able to talk about it, really, but of course, they've approved the sun decrees, they've presented us with this pact that they've worked on suns. A lot of solstreballas come to you. Many just and very divided; I don't know exactly how they intend to deal with it. I think that, and we will repeat them again, at a time of crisis like the one we are living with, we do not know how long this legislature will last, but since March 10 they have our hand extended. I think it would be a good thing that before a major pact that has this one that we presented yesterday, 31,700_million euros until 2032, so it would be worth it if we could work, because, more than that, they will now arrive, there are already 3,200_million euros from a state fund, they will not come more, it is true, from Europe, and I think it would be worth having as much consent as possible. That's what Oriol Amat said yesterday in an interview, I was very pleased, that it's the leaders who are able to reach consensus. So if we evaluate their leadership for the consensus they come to, they might suspend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.173.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.174.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, I'm going to answer some of the concerns you've raised, aren't you? When we talked about the euro allocated to social policies per inhabitant, we also looked at the euro we received from financing per inhabitant. When compared to which is a certain sectoral expenditure in relation to GDP, we look at the receipts of the financing model, also in relation to GDP. And we'll see that in a good way the explanation of many expenditure data is precisely in input data. And that's it. And that's it, and I think when you look at it, you look at it all. The comparison with the Community of Madrid, if you want, we do it all, we do it also with the percentage that it targets..., not in percentage, we also do it in the euros per capita that it targets for social expenditure, and we compare it with Catalonia, or what is its model of social protection, which is a determined, legitimate, political model I think is wrong, not the sharing, but it is its political model. I think you don't share it either; I do. So let's look at it. And it's a model that does have fewer presuppositional costs, but a lot more social costs, from my point of view. I don't have a conservative view of investments, but what I don't want is to leave in the hands – in the hands – of the rent to finance the future assumptions of the Government of Catalonia. We found concessions that the income was very high on the market – very high on the market. And I've spent a lot of hours trying to review these concessions, and we found ourselves in a legal armory that was done at the time. Some things should be checked. There has been, and we know it, and it's a mess we've got right now... And I repeat: I am not against concessions by concept, but to make all the investments, or the large part of investments, based on concessions paid by a third party, which is later collected in the future, and mortgages twenty or thirty years..., build a country that means that at the end of five years you are in a very difficult situation. And that happened, that happened. Therefore, having this learning, we do not repeat it, we do not repeat it, we try, in the face of the future, to do it, therefore, in a much more balanced way. The CTTI is one of the places where..., it is the fate of a good part of critics or of those things that when they want to present papers to the assumption..., that it is difficult, because, of course, the papers are high and low, we know, that it is difficult, it is the dilemma that we have, when we have to allocate resources: a euro cannot be used for two different things, it has to be used for one. And, therefore, the cost of opportunity, which is principle 1, number 1, of economic science, so yes, it is a great restriction, the cost of opportunity. The money you spend on one thing can't be spent on another. Therefore, the highs and lows in the presuppositional processing that you do many times approach the CTTI. But I look at the expenditure in the field of informatics, new technologies, of any major organisation, from the business to the administrative sphere, and you will see that they do not stop growing, that it is functional, that it is very important, because it serves precisely to organize better, to gain efficiency, to the same staff, to power, therefore, to offer better services, to serve faster, more services, and this expenditure will continue to grow: the expenditure in ICT, not of the Government of Catalonia, but of any government, will continue to grow, of course, because, go, it grows to all organizations. It has to be done well, it has to be done efficiently, and we have to do all the revisions. In fact, we have been pioneers in the Spending Review, in making expenditure review programs, which we have done, for example, in the area of the Department of Justice in the past legislature, and there have been conclusions that have begun to apply. So, obviously, we're following it. Now, for example, the Air Force wants to do it in the area of drugs and in the area of the line of which they are all types of income subsidies guaranteed, right? So, forward. And then, finally, the resources of the financing system, which you see, or so I understand, as I see that it is the Government of the State, it did not, because in principle they should not be arbitrary, in principle they should not depend on political will; it is a law that should apply. But I'm following him: we have other restrictions. Will they give support to '1_per_cent deficit or not? Because from here I say a good part of the reconstruction and aid policies that we need to do our own late and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.175.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on the budgetary policy of the Generality]] [[300-00288/12]] After this question, let us turn to the next point, which is the question to the Government on the presuppositionary policy of the Generality, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.176.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members. Mr Aragonès, with this question I would like to convey to you that in Catalonia we need as eating another way of managing public resources, and that a change in management is essential, through reforms, a change of course, and also a change of priorities. Our starting point was the more than 2,200 amendments that we proposed to you in the budgets and that allowed you to release and redirect 900_million_de_euro to allocate the..., in this case, would have been used to alleviate the effects of the pandemic. That is why I would like you to keep that central message of my appeal: the message that it is not only possible, but that a change of direction and reform of the Catalan administration is essential if we want Catalonia to make diligent use of resources for the benefit of the citizenry, progress and overcome this situation as soon as possible, a situation in which Catalan families are suffering. Because if they remain anchored in their ideology, in their way of doing politics and in how they manage the budget, we will never move forward, we will remain immersed in this hamster wheel that is weakening us day after day. Although I know that he is also involved with other issues, he is well aware that macroeconomic forecasts are very worrying. GDP could fall this year by almost 9_per_cent and the unemployment rate could almost double. We're talking about the job destruction could reach the 260,000 jobs. And that the uncertainty is very high, because we do not know the evolution of the pandemic, we do not know the effectiveness of government actions, including its paralysis, and because it also depends on the mobility of people and goods, which is obviously not guaranteed. What we have very clearly is that, given its weight in our GDP, the sectors that can suffer the most, and that, in fact, it is those that are already suffering, are all those related to group and leisure events, and that often depend on mobility. We talk about tourism, hospitality, catering, leisure and trade, which, along with transport, you know represent more than 25_per_cent of the GDP of our autonomous community. That's our starting reality. I am also saying this because talking about new technologies and improving industry, as you do lately, is very good from the intellectual point of view, and I wish they would have dedicated themselves to getting it over all these years, but the present is the one we have, and, or we help these sectors to get out, and the families that depend on them, forward, or the situation is going to be very but very black to us. And, in the face of this situation, Mr Councillor, it is no longer feasible to shield ourselves as hitherto in the favourable tail winds of the economy or to stand alone waiting for new funds to arrive. You, politically, have been able to survive thanks to the expansive period 2014-2019 – now I was commenting –, already for more than five years having top-level responsibilities in the Economics and Finance Board, but now you are faced with a scenario that has changed radically. And, to situate us, it's also convenient to make a review of your rankings, isn't it? , a review of how it has been managed throughout this expansive period, throughout this period of relative economic boom. A period that is marked, of course, because it has expelled more than five thousand companies with the legal uncertainty that it has generated, companies that have changed their head office to another autonomous community, and the head office is where decisions are made. Now these companies make decisions in Valencia, Madrid or Zaragoza, but no longer make decisions in Barcelona. And he has also expelled 30,000_million_de_euros into bank deposits because of the chaos and fear he transmitted with his actions to families and savers. With you at the head of the council, the Catalan economy has also lost competitiveness and lost relative weight with respect to the rest of the autonomous communities. And also with you at the head of the council the Catalan industry has weakened – and not only do I say this, your own report says, your department's macroeconomic report. The Nissan case is one of the hardest examples we have ever experienced, with almost 25,000 jobs at risk. But we have also lost a multitude of opportunities – and should have them reflect –, a multitude of investments, a multitude of projects. I only give you a couple of examples, such as the case of Tesla or the European Medicines Agency. All this while, moreover, the citizenry was subjected, punished, the working middle class, to the highest tax of IRPF paid throughout Spain, which is the one paid here in Catalonia. And another of its great achievements is to fire Catalan public debt, which has gone from EUR 58,000_million in 2013 to more than EUR 79,000_million in 2019, an increase of EUR 21,000_million. You, who now, and I said before, are a great advocate of Keynesian, countercyclical policies, as I said, that is, saving when things go well to be able to invest or spend when they go badly, you have never preached with the example. You've always stretched your arm more than your sleeve, you've spent more than you always get in, as the economy goes. And so, as the economy grew, you increased public debt by 36_per_cent: every Catalan has gone from assuming a debt of 7,800_euro to a debt of 10,400_euro. What puts us at a very unfavourable budgetary and financial starting point, despite what you tell us. And, no matter how much you deny it, this situation can only be saved because we belong to Spain, and it allows us to refinance the 10,500_million_of_euro in annual maturity and the deficit that is generated year after year. Without that, economic forecasts would be much worse. The reality is that leaving Spain, which is also his longing, would be the ruin for Catalans. And, of course, I refuse to think that we have fallen into a kind of curse, a kind of biblical plague, from which we cannot recover, because it is not. What happens to us is that we are in the hands of irresponsible politicians, and that is much worse now, because we are in the hands of irresponsible politicians managing a pandemic. Mr Aragonès, we need a change of course and to abandon attitudes with which you have lived to date, and, as I see it, you are not willing to make those changes. But from Citizens we tell him and show him that managing in another way is possible, and that releasing and redirecting resources from the budget is possible, however paralyzed and denied defending his modus vivendi. And I also tell you that reforming the administration and releasing resources does not mean cutting back, it does not mean spending less, it means spending better, prioritizing the fate of the resources we have to prevent precisely cuts in the future. And that is what we cannot afford, that there should be cuts in the future and that the usual, the most vulnerable should be paid back for this crisis. And what you have to do is stop using the budget for the benefit of a few to do it for the benefit of all citizens. And for that it is essential to rationalize the Catalan administration and stop wasting resources. That is why we believe that a reform of the Catalan administration must be put in place. And in this inquiry I would like to hear whether you intend to reform something and do something in this regard. It was said at first, we started from the proposal that we made through the amendments that we proposed in the budgets, and that would allow 900_million_of_euro to be released in order to be able to allocate them to the real needs of the citizenry, applying criteria of economic rationalization, implementing a plan to optimize the public expenditure of the Generalitat. Changing what is not reasonable: it is not reasonable how many senior positions and advisors we have. The Generalitat's web of transparency gathers almost 350 senior officials and advisors with an average remuneration of eighty_ thousand_euros per year, to which we have to add the posts corresponding to all the entities that depend on the Administration, and then the figure already exceeds the five hundred senior officials and advisors, and, moreover, many of them are centmilleurists. And, at the expenditure level, in some departments there is no justification for the level of expenditure they have. I'll give you some examples, counselor. We cannot afford astronomical levels of propagandistic spending, whether inwards or outwards. It is indefensible that TV3's budget is higher than that of the Enterprise Department. And I leave aside other criteria, because neither does it make any sense for us to pay among all a television so that it is at the service of an ideology, a television that despises many Catalans, who have even opted for or tuned it, without having the tuned one, so that they do not feel they are simply being harassed. And it is not sustainable to spend on delegations abroad, which, beyond the opacity of those delegations and their lack of transparency, are genuine devourers of resources, with the sole objective of internationalizing their ideology to speak ill of Spain. And not only do they consume resources, they end up damaging the Catalans' own interests, because they don't understand that talking bad about Spain is talking bad about a part of Spain, which is Catalonia. And what about keeping the privileges of the former presidents? That is why we are putting forward a bill to eliminate them; those resources must be allocated to other priorities. Or, if you want, we talk about all those structures that have oversized to try to emulate being a country, when they are not necessary. I am talking about the millions of CTTI or to set up a parallel tax agency, instead of allocating them to the fight against fraud, or to a cybersecurity agency, when they will never legally exercise these powers. And the system of subsidies they have, a system on which they often have neither the necessary control nor can ask for the necessary documentation, and which end up being genuine customer networks. And if they add up all these costs, totally avoidable, we get to release 900_million_of_euro in order to be able to allocate them to social policies, and that would only be a first phase, because we have to implement reforms much quieter, and they require more time and more planning. I, of course, Mr Aragonès, have no hope, but I would like to hear if you share something that I am asking you from this attril, if you share with me that it is necessary to reform the Catalan administration. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.177.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Generality and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the new word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.178.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member asked me: "Do you agree with any of the things I have said? So, the truth, with very few – with very few. I must be honest and say it there; in fact, we are, let us say, to the antipodes of the visit on the country, of the visit on the economy, on society, on how to govern this country. You, under the euphemism of the administration reform, under this euphemism, therefore, what you want to do are detailed, what you want to do is unpack all the instruments supporting Catalan culture. You, under this euphemism, what they do is also adorn it, obviously, with four demagic points of pay; this is a classic. And then, you, under this euphemism, what they would like is to learn what the technical capacity of the Catalonian Government is, which, I insist, is a fundamental factor; it is to say, whoever runs a small company knows that technological expenditure is growing, because it is part of the orderly process. It's just that without this, it can't be organized. And, obviously, with all the efficiency analysis – obviously – with all the expenditure review, of course; but this is a sector that is fundamental, when we are managing millions and millions of citizen data, and from here on we are doing public policy, when we are managing thousands and thousands and thousands of services or support aids or public services. It is, in fact, in many cases, the need for certain sectors of certain public services, such as, for example, in the field of salvation, is the most technological reversal, much better, and now we are seeing it. That is to say, you ask to go empty the CTTI, but then you ask that we have greater technological capacity, for example, for all data management in relation to the Covid. Therefore, the two things do not quadrate – do not quadrate. You have made reference to various things, apart from the commonplaces, let's say, of the Ciutadans program, and in this sense I do have to recognize the coherence: you take a lot of time to say the same, and it's "TV3 tank", we tank the delegations and a reform of the Administration, which more than that do not just materialize – do not just materialize. And, therefore..., or when they ask to reduce what public bodies are oblivious to the fact that the majority of public bodies are precisely entities and services in the field of health or in the field of territorial management or in the field of social protection. I don't know if you want to carry these policies; I hope not. In any case, this has been reflected in your assumptions, a assumption that, if it were for you, we would not have been approved; that you, when you already knew that this assumption would be proved because there was the political majority to do so, decided to submit an appeal to the Board of State Guarantees, a request for an opinion, which it was necessary to put in place, in the midst of the pandemic – in the midst of the pandemic – the approval of this assumption, for one month. And, therefore, that he has assumed that many of the actions that we then have to do we have to do later. And I personally asked the leaders of your parliamentary group that, as I knew that this would be the result, as I knew that the Council of State Guarantees would tell you that they are not right, not present, that they are doing this; they did not want to do it, but now they will not take responsibility – they will not take responsibility. His repose since 2013, in which he attributes to me, therefore, absolute control over the Catalan economy, but then he tells me that it is thanks to the wind of what we have achieved; therefore, two things at once. I think it is quite contradictory that you tell me that all the evils since Catalonia in 2013 are my responsibility, and that with all the positive things I have nothing to see. So, that's to say, it's probably in the middle; that's to say, taking responsibility is also taking on the things that have been done well, the things that have been done better, and in all areas there are obviously none. I don't have a problem accepting that it's always going to get better and that it's always going to learn. Since 2013, since the late quarter of 2013, the Catalan economy has started an economic recovery process. This economic recovery, while it is produced in the real economy, takes time to move to the Administration, always goes with a certain delay. In the same way, in the opposite direction; when a davalada situation occurs in the dynamics of the real economy, the Administration does not end up noticing it until at the end of a while, because the same recapitation, in good part, is based on the economic situation of the past year. If not, we see the statement of income that we all presented less than a month ago, and that, therefore, refers to the exercise of the past year; therefore, there is a certain gap. But since 2013, there has been this recovery, in which, precisely, with a fiscal policy of taxing who has the most..., and, later on, we have intensified it, because we believe that this is a correct model, and that we are now in a correct level of fiscal pressure. From here we managed to reduce the deficit, and we have done so, and it has allowed us to be much better situated – much better situated – to deal with the current situation, with an unexpected pandemic that has caused economic shock and needs the maximum mobilization of resources. He referred to macroeconomic data. Here we have to differentiate the measures we have to take at short notice and at half and long notice. Beyond these measures, there is a consensus among everyone that the public sector has a conservative position, if the public sector does not carry out a strong activity, the fall will be more pronounced and the recovery will be slower. Therefore, we need a public sector with the capacity, precisely, to be able to act much more, and to make sure, acting, uncertain, also, and adopting the decisions of action and intervention, the decisions to apply this expanding assumption in a correct way. In the short term it will be essential, while we do not have a vaccine, to make policies to sustain the entry guarantee yields, said in another way, of the most affected sectors. And the sectors most affected will be those in the field of services that precisely are the concentration of people and mobility, which are essential elements of their activity: commerce, oci, restoration, hospitality. That is why we have also taken the decision on the state tax in tourist establishments, and that is why the Catalan Institute of Finance has taken the whole policy of focusing on businesses in this sector at the time of giving it the support to finance, and also the support measures for direct aid, which we would certainly want to be much more, but if we had the resources we could do so. I, then, the measures have already been completed. We need to know how to do both things at the same time: sustaining the returns of the most affected sectors, and also the structural work of the foundations. Because, if not, this crisis will be over... because this crisis will be over, the question is when we overcome it and how we overcome it. If we get over it back to the economic model we had six months ago, I think we're wrong. We must take advantage of the fact that there will be a very large mobilization of resources. The agreement in the area of the European Union one day ago, of the last twenty-four hours, is good news, because it puts resources at the disposal of those who must know how to mobilise themselves safely. For this reason, we, from the government, have been working on these twenty strategic projects, which can be improved, which can receive contributions. Of course, we don't have the totality of knowledge; no, we..., and I don't know the economic planner who controls all the variables, as it seems that you attributed me to being responsible for all the evils and deluding me of any of the positive things. But it doesn't happen, that's politics; I take it, that's with the responsibilities, isn't it? With the burden I have. But that's why we ourselves have come up with twenty projects, to be prepared, because the foundations that will come up will be conditioned, and we will have to present good projects, that are competitive, that serve us to change the fabric of the product, that serve us to compete on the basis of our talent and not on the basis of wage precariousness, that was the model of the outcome of the 2008 crisis, precisely, because it came out, let's say, to despair, but there was no reason to make structural changes in the productive structure, and I think that's what we've been focusing on now. Obviously, this has to apply, these resources have to be obtained, but I think it's a very good tool. I think it's a very good tool. So we need to know how to work with these two things now. It's 30,000_million euros that you should match to Catalonia, from this Reactivation Fund. I ask you the question: are you aware that you are a party that has representation, too, at the level of the General Courts and the European Parliament, you will help us – not us, the Government, eh? Neither will I – will they help Catalonia to get 30,000_million euros worth of this Reactivation Fund? Will they help us? Can we count on you? , with its capacity for incidence? Can we count on you to increase the deficit up to '1_per_cent and be able to allocate it to these return support policies of the most affected sectors? I'd also like your answer. Thank you, President; thank you, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.179.0	Thank you, Vice President. The deputy has a new turn. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.180.0	Thank you, President. First of all, Vice-President, I thank you for the tone. And yes, count on all our help for what is reasonable when it comes to obtaining resources for our autonomous community, as we have always done, of which there is no doubt. We would indeed sit in the chair of the Fiscal and Financial Council and not leave it empty in order to obtain more resources and to be able to improve our financing system, which, unfortunately, you have not done during this time. The one who uses euphemism is you. You talk about cuts, consider cuts eliminate privileges, eliminate prebends, eliminate chiringuitos to target them and spend the best. However, what are real cuts are what you do, aren't you? Health cuts, cuts in education, cuts in fighting inequalities or cuts in security. That's the real stuff, not what I'm asking you. A reform is never a detail, as you say. Anyway, I'm not finished either..., I'm not surprised too much by the answer you've had, because from the beginning you've stated that you didn't come to run an autonomous community, as Mr. Torra said, and that's exactly what you're doing, isn't it? They're not running an autonomous community, they've dedicated themselves to crisparing, they've dedicated themselves to tensioning, they've dedicated themselves to dividing. Right now you are dreaming of large amounts of the European Union, but without focusing on what would be the management of our autonomous community. Keep thinking about a future, when people have a bad time today, people don't get to the end of the month, they didn't get to the end of the month two months ago, not last month, not even this one. He's not expecting big changes when money comes from outside. In addition, it talks and puts in its mouth all the European funds, that the more they get better, but at the end of what has to be done is that these European funds reach the families, reach the self-employed, reach the SMEs, reach the society and do not stay on the road. And if you don't just reform the administration, and if you don't reform it, all that slump is going to stay on the road and you're not going to get where you have to go. Because the final destination is not that it reaches the Generalitat, it is not that it reaches the budget of the Generalitat, but that it reaches, as I said, the people who need it, the Catalan society, the families. He then confronted us with the issue of the budget. Everyone has acknowledged it, the 2020 budget is not working, it is not useful in the face of a pandemic. But why hasn't the 2021 budget started to work? Many times you told me: "It takes six months to prepare a budget, when the reality is that changes are made from one month to the next. But you, still, the 2021 ones we don't have on the table, and you would have to present them in October. Why has it not begun to work what really depends on you? That's what I'm talking about. When you don't manage, when you don't reform, when you don't do the things that you really play and when you play. Then he told me that you did not have control of the economy, and that I have therefore blamed you for the possibility of you managing the economy. No, look, what was in his hands was that the companies weren't gone. That was not in the hands of the Catalan economy. When you generated that legal uncertainty that caused those decisions to be made and the headquarters to be changed, the ones we had in Catalonia, to other autonomous communities, was because of what you generated, do not attribute that to the economy. When the deposits left, do not attribute it to the economy; they left the deposits because the families and the savers were frightened with their drift, because they thought there could be a corralite here, and that is why the queues were made in the banks and that is why the families made mirror accounts. That's his responsibility. Why is competitiveness lost? Because of their way of managing the budget, because of our taxation; our taxation is not competitive. We live within an autonomous community and must have competitive taxation. When our workers, our working middle class is the one who pays the most taxes, of course we are not talking about a competitive society and an autonomous community. I get out of your exhibition is that you have no interest in reforming the Administration. You have no intention of evaluating public spending programs. You have no intention of any independent body evaluating your policies and you have no intention of improving public spending. And I come to the conclusion, I have to conclude that he doesn't want to do what he doesn't want to do because he doesn't want his privileges to be taken away, he doesn't want his pre-bends to be taken away, he doesn't want to lose his customer networks, he controls the cotanro, he doesn't want to lose any chiringuito. You want to continue living very well and that does not change anything, while those who are suffering are Catalan families. That's why I'm asking you to make an effort. Make an effort and understand our position and do your best to reform the Catalan Administration. For some taxpayers there are six administrations above them. It doesn't make sense. We have to reform it; we have to eliminate all those duplications, all those tops that citizenship has and that problem that it is facing. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.181.0	To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.182.0	Thank you, President. Member, I already know that this is an inquiry to the government, but I was hoping that you would answer me and that you would know if I could count on you to increase the deficit target to '1_per_cent, and that we could allocate these more than 450_million euros to, precisely, these lines of help to concrete sectors that are having a hard time. He didn't answer me. I'd like to count on your answer and I'd like to count on your support, because at hours of the day – at hours of the day – we still have the deficit target that's marked: it's the presuppositional balance, 0_per_cent. Although the Congress and the Senate have made the whole path, we are still at 0_per_cent – the whole path for 0.2. We believe that we should go to the '1, because we do not just need to have resources for which the assumption now implies the Generality, but we must put resources – you in ugly reference – to self-employed people, to workers, to families. Obviously, yes. And to do more without having them removed from the public service—that I remember that greeting, education and social protection are three_of_each_four euros from the assumption of the Government of Catalonia. So what we need, precisely, is to be able to expand this objective. The State will make a deficit of 10_percent of GDP this year. Knowing that we're going here, isn't it reasonable to set up already as an object– and, therefore, to set up the mechanisms to organize it – the proper financing of 1_per_cent? For the Government of Catalonia, our case – and for the rest, eh? We don't just say it for ourselves– that we manage the welfare state, and that we also want to make policies and that we are close to making economic recovery policies? About the presupposition of 2021. We are working on the scenes, but we can solve some elements that are very important. First: what will be the resources of the funding model of the coming year. There's gonna be a drop in the recap. The forecasts, this year, we still have, therefore, the entries as planned to generate. Therefore, we assume that two years from now there will be a negative liquidation that we will have to resolve, and that we will probably have to do as in 2009-2010. Probably, let's go here. But by 2021 the forecasts will be adequate, right? , and incorporating the new economic reality in which we are. And, therefore, there will be a drop in the generality's entrances. How do we handle this? Why with administration reforms..., listen to me, working free of charge we won't solve it, huh? That's what I'm saying, staring at the minute, they don't solve it. Even though we're holding all the embassies, we can't handle it. Even though we're still on TV3, we can't handle it. And, besides, we don't want to. We don't want to turn on TV3, we don't want to turn on Catalunya Radio. They're phonenal fish from our society, public communication media. We won't do it. But even with his receipt, they wouldn't get mixed up either. So, what do we need for the economics of the coming year? To know, first of all, how many tickets we can count from the financing model. Because I can make estimates, like what I had to do with this year's premise because the state didn't pass them to me, when it's forced to do it July of every year. We're in July, and we haven't been through anything since last year. Therefore, we can make estimates, but in the end the resources that arrive are the ones that mark. It's so sad. That's why we're independent, because we want to overcome this sadness at the time of managing this. Therefore, we need to know how many resources will come from the funding model and how they make up for the rest. And the rest will mean authorised deficit or extraordinary funds that can come, like this year's Covid Fund, or part of the European Reactivation Fund, which I think should go to the inversion field. And the scope of the current expenditure, which we must be able to bear, has to be reduced. Because it's the right thing to do now. And we'll get it back at the time of economic growth. So this is the uncertainty we're moving on now. And, therefore, this should be solved. Talk to your colleagues who also manage history and public finance in autonomous communities and will find themselves in the same situation. They all find themselves in the same situation. So, I'm not saying it like a toilet, I'm saying it because I think it'll be useful to see the difficulties we're in. Tax and Finance Policy Board. He didn't call. Imagine whether it's important, or not important, that, in the fall we've had of public entrances, not even just to decide the Covid Fons has been summoned. In fact, there is no difference either with what he ended up passing, because there is a majority of the ministries' votes. Therefore, the ministry has continued to decide, now. We have held meetings, but no formal meeting of the Tax and Finance Policy Council. Normally, it's ugly the month of July. There's no summons, and I don't think there's gonna be any summons. So, this is the reality, with us... And, despite that, we've made an expansion of assumptions. There is a first tram of 1,230_million euros. And we'll end up doing it for the good part of these Fons Covid, except for the part that has to be done to make up for the entrances, too. And this will help us to cope with all the extraordinary expenses, and also to make economic recovery policies. Thank you, President; thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.183.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's no more business dealing with this morning. Therefore, we suspend the session until two-quarters of the late four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.184.0	Well, as long as we start this late with the votes, let's call it a vote now. [[Long break.]] Put your vote to the vote. We're looking forward to the results of the phone votes, huh? When we have them, we start the vote. [[Long break.]] All right. So now we have the results of the telematic vote. Therefore, we will proceed to vote on the corresponding points to the questions that have been debated this morning. We begin, first of all, by voting on the proposal to extend the agenda to add a new point relating to the debate and vote of the delegation to the Health Commission of the full legislative competence for the processing of the Law Project to restore the variable productivity complement of the statutory staff of the Catalan Health Institute. I would like to say to you that for today's ninety Members and Members have delegated their vote, twenty-two have joined the telematic vote and twenty-two will vote face-to-face. We are voting, as I said, on this alteration of the order of the day. The vote begins. It has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions, that is, unanimously. And we are now voting on the enlargement of the agenda to add a new point to the debate and vote on the delegation to the Health Commission of full legislative competence to deal with the proposed law of the public service for oral health and the creation of the Children's Dental Care Programme in Catalonia. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting now on the opinion of the committee... once approved these two points, as I've already informed in the morning, they'll substantiate dives. That will be the corresponding debate and the vote will be held on the next sale. [[Coastal Planning Law Project (continuation)]] [[200-00007/12]] Let us now vote on the opinion of the Territorial Commission of the Coastal Law Project. Firstly, we shall vote on the reserved items of the parliamentary groups in accordance with the separate voting petitions which have called for the same groups, and then we shall vote on the joint text of the opinion. In the first place, we vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, specifically on 2, 64 and 65. The vote begins. These items were rejected by 40 votes in favour, 77 against – 55 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents – 17 abstentions. Let's now vote on item 97 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. The vote begins. It was rejected by four votes in favour, 105 against—correspondents to 83 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics—25 abstentions. I now vote for the items 4, 18, 26, 44, 49, 51, 54, 55, 60, 61, 63, 67, 76, 87 and 95 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 77 against and 53 abstentions. We are now voting on points 43, 52, 62 and 77 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar. The vote begins. They were rejected by 21 votes in favour, 65 against and 48 abstentions. And now we're voting on the 56th. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 69 against – 47 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics correspondents – 4 abstentions. And we now vote on items 35, 42, 45, 46, 68, 80 and 84. The vote begins. They were rejected by 29 votes in favour, 105 against and no abstentions. And now we're voting for the 81st item. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 65, with 40 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. And, then, and answering the separate voting petitions, we will vote, first of all, Article 2, letter to – Article 2, letter to. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 40. And now we vote on Article 2, letter b. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on Article 3, letter e. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 40. I now vote on Article 3, letter j, and Article 4.1, letter c. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 5, letters g and h; Article 11, letter i, and Article 32.2. The vote begins. They were approved by 94 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. I now vote on Rule 25.2 and 25.3. The vote begins. They were approved by 86 votes to four, with 44 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of Article 25. The vote begins. It was approved by 94 votes in favour, against and 40 abstentions. We now vote on the ninth additional provision. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. Finally, we shall vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Coastal Ordering Bill has been approved by 108 votes in favour – correspondents to 96 delegates and face-to-face and 22 telematics – against 16 abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Opinion of the Research Commission on the Atempts of 17 and 18 August 2017 (continuation)]] [[261-00002/12]] Let us continue now with the vote on the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry on the Times of August 17 and 18, 2017. We start with the conclusions of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, from 1 to 35, and we specifically vote on paragraphs 2, 5 and 12. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. They were approved by 126 votes in favour, 4 against and 4 abstentions. We now vote on conclusions 3, 4 and 9. The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. We're voting now at 6 and 23. The vote begins. They were approved by 122 votes in favour, 4 against and 8 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 101 votes to 4, with 29 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 118 votes to 8, with 8 abstentions. And now we vote on number 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 95 votes to four, with 35 abstentions. And we're voting now at 13, 18, 28 and 32. The vote begins. They were approved by 113 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting now at 15 and 31. The vote begins. They were approved by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now at 16 and 19. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 17. The vote begins. It was approved by 45 votes in favour –correspondents to 23 delegates and face-to-face –, 36 against, 53 abstentions. We now vote for number 21. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 57, with no abstentions. We're voting at 22. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 57, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 24. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 25, with 36 abstentions. And we're voting now at 25. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 26. The vote begins. It was adopted by 113 votes to 21, with no abstentions. We now vote on the remaining conclusions of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the conclusions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, concretely from 36 to 111. Let's start at 36 and 37. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting at 38. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. And we're voting now at 41 and 67. The vote begins. They were approved by 98 votes in favour, against and 36 abstentions. We're voting now for number 40. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting at 42. The vote begins. It was adopted by 98 votes to 32, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now at 43. The vote begins. It was adopted by 122 votes to four, with eight abstentions. We're voting at 44. The vote begins. It was adopted by 126 votes in favour, against and eight abstentions. And we vote at 45. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. I now vote on conclusions 47, 48, 49, 53, 55, 65, 71, 74 and 83. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We are voting now on numbers 46, 50, 56, 57, and 80. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 51. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 36. We're voting now at 59. The vote begins. It was adopted by 101 votes to 33. We now vote for the conclusion of number 63. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 33, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote on number 66. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now at 68. The vote begins. It was adopted by 122 votes to 12, with no abstentions. We're voting for 79. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 40. We're voting now at 81. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on Conclusions Nos 84, 90, 91 and 92. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting now at 85. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 36, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 86. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we vote at 87. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we vote at 88. The vote begins. It was adopted by 61 votes to 33, with 40 abstentions. We're voting for 89. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We now vote for the conclusion of number 93. The vote begins. It was adopted by 98 votes to 36, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on Conclusions Nos. 94 and 95. The vote begins. They were approved by 122 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. And we're voting now at 102, 106, 107 and 108. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. Vote for 111. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the conclusions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The rest, we say, which we have not actually voted on yet. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to 4, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the conclusions of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, from 112 to 169. And let's start, concretely, with 122 and 123. The vote begins. They were approved by 79 votes to 16, with 17 abstentions. And now we're going to vote on 133. The vote begins. It was adopted by 88 votes to 38, with 8 abstentions. I now vote on Conclusions Nos 125, 131, 134, 135, 137, 138, 143, 144 and 146. The vote begins. They were approved by 96 votes in favour, 34 against, 4 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the conclusions of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the rest of the conclusions. The vote begins. They were approved by 97 votes to 37, with no abstentions. And we now vote on the conclusions of the Republican Parliamentary Group, from 174 to 354. Let's start at 170 and 200. The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes in favour, 4 against, 40 abstentions. We now vote on the number 174, 175, 178, 180, 183, 184, 185, 187, 204, 205 and 206. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. And now we're voting at 182. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 4, with 57 abstentions. And now we're voting on 195. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. And we are voting now on a package of conclusions ranging from 272 to 354. The vote begins. They were approved by 126 votes to four, with four abstentions. And we're voting now at 201 and 202. The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes in favour, 8 against, 36 abstentions. And now we're voting on 207. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 21, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on 208 and 209. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 57, with no abstentions. I return: 77 votes in favour, 57 against, with no abstentions. We're voting for 210 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. And we vote for 211. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting 212 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to 40, with four abstentions. We now vote on 216, 225 and 228; 216, 225 and 228. The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes in favour, 8 against, 36 abstentions. And we now vote on a group of conclusions ranging from 217 to 242. The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes in favour, 4 against, 40 abstentions. We're voting 227 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 4, with 57 abstentions. And now we vote on 229. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 4, with 57 abstentions. We're voting 244 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 126 votes to 8, with no abstentions. We're voting for 248 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. And we now vote on the conclusions that range from 249 to 255. The vote begins. They were approved by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now at 259 and 340. The vote begins. They were approved by 126 votes to 8, with no abstentions. We're voting 260 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 80 votes to 4, with 50 abstentions; 80 in favour, four against, 50 abstentions. We now vote on 274, 278, 280, 281 and 301. The vote begins. They were approved by 113 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. And we vote on 262. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. And we're voting now at 265, 270 and 271. The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes in favour, 4 against, 40 abstentions. And now we vote on 266. The vote begins. It was adopted by 126 votes to four, with four abstentions. We're voting 282 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 57, with no abstentions. And now we vote on 283. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. We're voting 287 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 25, with 36 abstentions. We're voting 288 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. We're voting now at 289 and 290. The vote begins. They were approved by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting 291 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to 8, with 36 abstentions. We vote for 297. The vote begins. It was adopted by 93 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting for 299. The vote begins. It was adopted by 108 votes to four, with 21 abstentions and one Member present who did not vote. Let's vote for 300. The vote begins. It was adopted by 122 votes to four, with eight abstentions. We're voting 302 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 8, with 53 abstentions. Let's vote for 304. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 8, with 53 abstentions. And now we're voting on 305. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to 8, with 36 abstentions. Vote for 310. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. We now vote for 311. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on 312, 314, 315. The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes in favour, 4 against, 40 abstentions. We're voting on 313 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. And we are voting now at 317, 318 and 319. The vote begins. They were approved by 89 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. And now we're voting 320 and 333. The vote begins. They were approved by 109 votes to 4, with 21 abstentions. We're voting 321 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to 40, with four abstentions. We're voting 324 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 85 votes to 40, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now at 325. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting 326 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. We're voting 330 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 113 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. We're voting for 331 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. We're voting 337 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. We're voting 345 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 40, with no abstentions. We're voting 342 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 82 votes to four, with 48 abstentions. Let's vote on 343. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. We're voting 348 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. We now vote on 349. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. We're voting for 351. The vote begins. It was adopted by 109 votes to 21, with 4 abstentions. And now we're voting on 353. The vote begins. It was adopted by 109 votes to four, with 21 abstentions. We vote on the rest of the conclusions of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We are voting now on the conclusions of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pueblo, and we have started with 356. The vote begins. It was adopted by 61 votes to four, with 69 abstentions. We're voting 357 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. And we vote on 366. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. We now vote on 361, 363. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. And now we vote on 368, 399, 406, 419, 428 and 429. The vote begins. They were approved by 126 votes to four, with four abstentions. And now we vote on 369, 370, 371 and 372. The vote begins. They were approved by 90 votes in favour, 4 against, 40 abstentions. We're voting on 373 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. And we vote for 375. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. And we now vote on the conclusions that range from 378 to 440. The vote begins. They were approved by 113 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. We're voting at 380 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 76 votes to four, with 53 abstentions. Vote now 383 and 389. The vote begins. They were approved by 101 votes to 33, with no abstentions. We're voting 385 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 93 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We're voting 386 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. Let's vote on 387. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 40, with no abstentions. Let's vote 401 and 402. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on 403, 404, 439 and 444. The vote begins. They were approved by 101 votes to 33, with no abstentions. We're voting for 405 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 29 votes to 4, with 101 abstentions. We're voting for 407 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 80 votes to four, with 50 abstentions. And we're voting now at 417. The vote begins. It was adopted by 90 votes to four, with 40 abstentions. And we're voting 420 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. And now we vote on 421 and 422. The vote begins. They were approved by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We vote for 423. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting 424 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 61 votes to four, with 69 abstentions. And now we vote on 426. The vote begins. It was adopted by 89 votes to 40, with four abstentions. We're voting 437 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 98 votes to 4, with 32 abstentions. And now we vote on 443. The vote begins. It was adopted by 61 votes to 37, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote on 445. The vote begins. It was adopted by 94 votes to 40, with no abstentions. We are voting now for the rest of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. The vote begins. They were approved by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We now vote on the conclusions of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, which range from 446 to 499. Let's start with 457 and 499. The vote begins. They were approved by 89 votes to 37, with 8 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. They were approved by 97 votes to 37, with no abstentions. And now we vote on the conclusions of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent that they go from number 500 to 575. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 57, with no abstentions. And now we vote the conclusions of the CUP - Crida Constitute that they go from 501 to 586. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 4, with 53 abstentions. And now we vote on the package that goes from 502 to 579. The vote begins. They were approved by 77 votes to 21, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote at 532, 534 and 535. The vote begins. They were approved by 61 votes to 37, with 36 abstentions. And now we're voting on 506. The vote begins. It was adopted by 44 votes to 37, with 53 abstentions. We're voting now at 519. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting for 544 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 45 votes to four, with 85 abstentions. We're voting 546 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 40, with 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 570. The vote begins. It was adopted by 86 votes to four, with 44 abstentions. We're voting 578 now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 45 votes to 53, with 36 abstentions. And we're voting now at 580. The vote begins. It was adopted by 44 votes to four, with 86 abstentions. And now we vote the rest of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. The vote begins. They were approved by 94 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. There are no more points to vote. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the International Day of Indigenous Peoples]] [[401-00040/12]] Therefore, we follow the order of the day and, before addressing the questions, we will read an institutional statement that has been approved by all parliamentary groups. To read it, ask that you do the fourth secretary, Mrs. Rut Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.185.0	« Statement by Parliament on the International Day of Indigenous Peoples. The proper 9 d'August is celebrated the International Day of Indigenous Peoples. The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its commitment to this day, which is celebrated to manifest the individual and collective rights of these peoples, made up of more than 370_million people from the world. The Parliament of Catalonia recognizes indigenous peoples as a community made up of historical evolution, often with a common language and a system of historically shared creations, and often with its own institutions. Some peoples to whom the international right confers specific right collections. The Parliament of Catalonia agrates the contribution that these peoples make to the environmental preservation of the planet. The Catalonian Parliament expresses its rejection of the discrimination and inequality suffered by indigenous peoples and the violation of their fundamental and collective rights, which have worsened even more for the Covid-19. The pandemic and its health and socio-economic repercussions have a particularly strong impact on these communities and perpetuate direct impacts on their territories and vital resources, such as water, on the part of extractive projects. In the same vein, the consequences of the violation of the rights of indigenous peoples' communities are materialized in an increase in the dynamics of violence and confrontation for the defence of human rights and in an increase in climate-emergency across the planet. All this causes these people to be disproportionately involved in a situation of health, social and environmental emergencies. Finally, the Catalonian Parliament reaffirms its commitment to the rights of internationally recognized indigenous peoples and urges the Government and the rest of the Catalan public institutions to promote, protect and effectively complement the 169 Convention of the International Labour Organization on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, ratified by the Spanish State in 2007, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, adopted in 2007. Palau del Parlament, July 22, 2020. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.186.0	Thank you, Secretary Ribas. [[Asking the Government about Lleida's confinement and low Segria]] [[300-00282/12]] Let us now turn to the question to the Government about the confinement of Lleida and Baix Segrià, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. In order to expose it, the honourable Member has the word Óscar Ordeig. Forward. You're hoping for a moment, Congressman. Now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.187.0	Good afternoon. This hemisphere is symptomatic of many of the reflections we will have today. Counselor, thank you for being here, Foreign Counselor, MP, MP. First of all, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units we want to have a record, as it cannot be in any other way, for all the people who have left us and want a quick recovery for all people infected and hospitalized. Also get all the support to the and professionals who are working to contain the effects of the pandemic and to all the citizens who live, at these times, live in the areas of rebounds, especially Segria, Noguera, a reason for this inquiry. It is important to follow all the recommendations of health authorities. So we've done it, and so we'll do it, and we'll work together to overcome this difficult crisis, these current difficulties. At the same time, this is why we are here, to give explanations and information and see what aspects can improve and have not done so well. That said, I would like to highlight what are the reasons that lead us to ask about the confinement of the Segria, extended from a few days ago to the Noguera. We haven't come all this way to generate more problems, not to generate more confusion, but to claim answers and claim clarity about how things have been done and how they will be done from then on. Aware of the difficulty of the moment, of the terrible consequences that this pandemic is having and that it can have in the future, and also aware that we are fully immersed in the confinement of Lleida, the Noguera and other territories of Catalonia and the State, that we cannot lose sight of, but also that we can see that there are things that do not work well. Today, Counselor, it is a very difficult intervention, and we would never have wanted to do it. And an example of what didn't work well enough is Lleida's confinement and the Segrity, a lot symptomatic of many things that hadn't been done well in the past. You have many mayors, not to mention all the mayors of Segria, citizens, entrepreneurs, locals and a large part of Lleida's civil society do not understand how things have been done so far, and claim that they are different and claim that they are better. In fact, we demand a change in communication and measurement. There is a general disconcert about the lack of clear guidelines. There is a surprise, a surprise for the constant changes in political values – and then I will mention it –, indignation at the application of more restrictive measures than the day before seemed impossible and the day after they are the most restrictive of all Catalonia, Lleida, our businesses, our people, our families, and a glaring lack of resources needed to fight this pandemic and its effects and to survive and pull forward. Some national or Lleida communication media have written a lot about the confinement of the Segria, symptomatic of many things that are not going well in our country. I'll read only a few headlines – and they're not the most critical, I assure you –: « Chaos for Lleida's new confinement. Another said: "012 informs that the inn can open Lleida, when everyone knows it's not like that. « Discoordination. « Mayors of Lower Segria, disconcerted, indignant. « Lleida's employers call the segrià's confinement improvisation. The mayor of Lleida – the mayor of Lleida – says: "President Torra has not called me for the confinement of the Segria. Says he knew 30 minutes before, 30 minutes before. That's what he said. I don't know if this would happen anywhere else. Two editorials. De l'Ara: "The mismanagement brings us to a new confinement. The editorial of the Secret: "He mismanaged politics, and then he reflects on how things have been done. Infinity of articles on improvisation and abandonment, not at all, not of the whole government, but of the segregation of the Segria. I would like to say – words from some of its mayors, also of its political colour –: worse impossible, with the confinement of the Segria. And, Counselor, good show of this, and you have here a counselor of the territory that you can see there, is that Lleida at these times is a cry, and it is that Lleida at these times has said "good, because this is not only the one that has passed the last few weeks, that is to say from the end: there is a unanimous practice against the management of this Government, and a cry for wonder, first, of indignation after, as it is taken decisions, and also as it is explained, as it is explained to the public opinion, not a public opinion childish, but a major public opinion of state, that understand things; of a total lack of consideration and respect for a territory, and sometimes, it is not the sense that it is the first to think. So yes, Lleida exists, even though I stayed very far away, not geographically, but in his thoughts and his political priorities, without analyzing the potential we have in our territory and the public policies necessary to generate progress; without asking; in fact, without a real interest or with a political understatement, which we have seen historically once again the other, we have suffered many times. Should they be able to act the same in the segrià's confinement to Barcelona, Girona or Tarragona? I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. Actually, we've proven that no, okay? Once again, when it comes to Lleida, and I'm sorry to tell you, the feeling is that we're going back, we're going back – so, we don't blame you for 100 percent of the blame, but we blame your government – to be late. It's just that, in fact, I don't think they know Lleida. In fact, some people confined them without having any positivities. Have you asked the mayors and the health care? We ourselves warned for many days that there were aspects, complaints from the mayors, that they had not been taken into account, and they called us alarmists. They haven't asked. They do not want to allocate resources to a territory that is very punished for retailing and we do not believe, or believe ourselves, their false promises that they come, they make the photo, they leave and they do not fulfill. It doesn't matter to stop Lleida's economy as long as it takes. How many jobs affected, how many families affected? Millions of euros lost each day. Some say about 3_million euros in inn, catering and storage every day. And is that any use if we don't then have the resources for winging, tracking the positives? Obviously, it will lose its effectiveness. What we are asking for is more flexibility; what we are asking is to adapt solutions to the territory so that the damage is as small as possible. And, above all, as we say, they have no sense of these measures without thorough control and the necessary resources, which at these times are not there. And our day: who is responsible for this management? Or who's responsible for this didn't manage? Who will take responsibility? Who will give us an answer? We don't call it a day, you tell a lot of locals. The trench will be monumental, and we don't know if we can get up from this big kick. There's uncertainty, there's worry and there's patience. And beyond the political differences, he will advise, what we also want is to convey to him this uncertainty, this reflection. We ask ourselves what happened, why did we get here, why did the third phase of the state of alarm in Catalonia last hours, in Lleida? Why didn't they start taking action, when the Aragó's confinement began, with very important similarities with Segria? It's just that everything was under control. Acting before he wouldn't have prevented us from getting here, or getting there on better terms? Doesn't it look like there's a lot of things going on? Until the day before the confinement it was said that everything was controlled, and it seemed that we were exaggerates that we demanded measures. Why change your mind in such a short time? They must remember it perfectly. One divender is the goddess that was still in control. Disappointment was decreed the confinement of the Segria, when many people had already left the head of the week. Then it is said that everyone must return to the Segria before four o'clock, and at the end of a few hours it is said that no. When some have already returned, it is said that no, that if they do not return that they can return later, that will not pass the king. So, it's pissing people off, it's imprecise information, and it's improvised. The mayors of Lower Segria, who have all of our recollection, all of our recollection, and who say the same thing that happened weeks ago, warned of the lack of health and safety personnel to complete the security and protection measures. They're the ones who know our territory better. No special arrangements for the arrival of timers. Why? We could get back help with the housing construction that eliminated the Greater Government. Either we can take steps to require decent and secure housing conditions or we can control the supply of positives and contacts or we can set up a time subsidy for which positives are and cannot work. In short, we expected measures that could be anticipated, that the mayors would warn, and that, obviously, they should have taken into account for not having reached this point. We have called for a special social operation for people in an irregular situation who cannot work, too. Or a little foresight I think we'd have a lot of criticism in this line and avoid a criminalization of our farmers or timers. Everyone's trying to survive. Doing things as best as possible. But if there's no clear criteria, a clear direction to where we're going, it's very difficult to pull forward. We have more thoughts, but we'll do them on the next step. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.189.0	All right. Thank you, President. Deputys, deputy. Counselors, almost with more number. [[Rialles.]] Okay. Well, Congressman, you said it, go from the moon. Go from the moon. And, besides, this year, so we add a crisis, a strong global pandemic, with a strong impact. What I can tell you..., and I think it would take three hours to explain to you absolutely everything that you have since March we work in the territory of Lleida and, concretely, in Segrià, it would take a lot of time to explain to you all the work we have done there. Predictably, knowing what was going on, knowing, therefore, that we are entering a complicated time when the population increases considerably in this territory. And it's an evidence, because that, obviously, happens every year, with social complexities that are there. And you've been through a lot, haven't you? at the last minute, at the last part of the intervention trying to say that someone is trying to criminalise a sector or criminalize, so, some people. The other way around. The other way around. But to put on the table what is a reality, and what is a reality that has approached this year with much more intensity, not only on the part of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, from the departments of Agriculture, Work, Social Affairs and Families and the Department of Health, but also from different municipalities, starting for the Paeria de Lleida, the city of Lleida. And that's so, despite the weight, that maybe this is the main reason for this inquiry. Already in March, in March, we start working together with the Department of Agriculture. The fruit bell incorporates thirty_ thousand more people to the lands of Lleida, most of them also very concentrated in some municipalities of Segrià. The 4th of May already infographic directed, especially, to people working in the fruit collection campaign, translated to multiple languages to make it diffuse among all the people involved, because they have information. Because the best way to protect people is to start with information. At the end of March we coordinate with the Government Delegation in different forums until more than twenty-two meetings are held between April 1st and May 15th, with more than 230 representatives of the agricultural sector, associations, employers, trade unions, district councils, parliament, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, political representatives, technical representatives of the administrations involved, with all the mayors of the region and with mayors and mayors of the lower Segria. We identify possible risks, we design the measures to avoid them and until we reach the Government Agreement of 28 April, also in which the coordination and follow-up of the agricultural campaign is encouraged in the context of the pandemic generated by the Covid-19 and where we also wrote, on 29 April, to the committee for the agricultural campaign, so the recommendations for action before the risk of the Covid in agricultural activities and enterprises. I repeat the dates, because I think they must be very clear. That is to say, in the middle of the first wave of the Covid pandemic, we are already doing prevention of what we believe can be, therefore, this population increase, and that it can generate even more risks or things to take into account. Prevention is the most important. We also have all the recommendations valid for Public Health for all participating actors to ensure health and safety in the field of companies facing their workers and workers. One of the main friends of this protocol is to ensure winging in case of Covid malaltia, bearing in mind that it was foreseeable that in some cases the winging was complicated. On April 24, we started visits to municipal spaces. Twenty-three meetings were visited by representatives of Health, Agriculture and the Interior, through the Bombers, and the delegation to advise on how to organize winging spaces. A total of twenty-i-three municipalities. The first social need to emerge was the month of May, the month of May. On May 15, also, so, in this case, through the active search action plan of cases that we were able to make in situ to the city of Lleida. We did more than forty PCR tests and, at that time, all negatives. All negative. It means that here, so, we also put prevention there. Moreover, from the beginning of this active search for cases and coinciding with the PCR test-free inn to primary care on May 11th, the Lleida region has been captivated in the number of tests it has carried out. That said, we're talking, it seems to us, now, because we're in the middle of July, it seems to us that it's the last two weeks or the last three weeks. Mr. Ordeig, we've been working in the region for many weeks. It's been weeks since we've worked from the hands of different administrations to manage a complex situation in a global pandemic and, therefore, in a population that has many municipalities. A population summary and a summary of cases where the month of May identify transmission channels, impacts on agri-food enterprises, in different undertakings where there is a major screening already in the month of May, infographics and specific protocols, meetings with employers and the sector, visits of public health techniques with the creation of a checklist of requests to take into account in the work centres where visits are also of favourable value, favourable assessments of what is identified and what is remedied, detection of positivities in PCR, and the identification of cases and their close contacts, involvement of public health services with job risk prevention services, absolute involvement of the primary attention in the follow-up of cases. The transmission channels and the accumulated incidence lowers the main focus of agri-food businesses a little bit, and then we find ourselves at the beginning of June – the beginnings of June – where the intensity of bud detection is pronounced. Since March 26th, we have been able to access the Rambla hotel in order to facilitate close contacts and people who are pending as a result of the PCR test and we continue to use it with a capacity of forty seats. We own La Manreana, with sixty seats, as the winging space of asymptomatic people and with light symptoms; Accommodations You will find for a positive with forty-four seats; detection of positive cases in other rights that cause massive cracks in a hostel, for example, with approximately fifty people. And on June 26 the incidence of our cases began to rise, mostly linked to the great existing detection, especially of asymptomatic people. On the 26th of June I visited Lleida myself. I'm going to Arnau Hospital in Vilanova and I'm also asking for and I'm constantly talking about those days with Aragó, with the Aragó Councillor, asking that we limit to the maximum the movement of people between Lleida and Aragó, also coinciding with an active bud in the strip that had already begun. Close communication that we have been maintaining, and that seems to me to be the way to act, to collaborate between different administrations. On June 26, I already visit the Nastasi Hotel as the space to be prepared for the arrival of people who cannot make it at home. On July 3rd I return to visit Lleida again, a week later, and this evening accompanied by the director of the response unit to the Covid-19, Jacobo Mendioroz. I also meet with the management team to make an assessment of the situation, also assess the care impact of the Covid. I'm also meeting with primary school professionals. Let's also explain what's going on in the driveways that we have. We identify social vulnerability and we identify the need to work even more together with the municipalities to make it possible, so, not only can we detect cases, we obviously already do, we identify contacts, but the main objective is to be able to make correct checks on these cases and contacts. I can go on and on for a long time, which the president won't let me. Do you go from the far and, therefore, would we have done the same to Lleida as to Barcelona, that to Tarragona in an equal situation? Obviously. Obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.190.0	Counselor... thank you. Now he's got five more minutes, to make the reply, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.191.0	Counselor, he didn't answer me because phase three lasted hours. Why this misinformation, contradictory information, in many things that are said? Today Lleida there were bars that couldn't open and were open. There are people who don't know that Segrià's confinement is over. So, you're recommending it? Obligation? What's this? We call for flexibility in the measures of our city's economic fabric, guaranteeing security, obviously. And from theory to practice there's a lot of difference. Proposals: what are we asking for? First of all, we said it, and we keep saying it: respect and let go of stereotypes or prejudices when it comes to Lleida. Not you, but you obviously help this not to be so. Catalonia can be built from the territories. We want you to listen, to listen to our requests. Clear directives and transparent information and a clear command. Let Lleida's measurements be equipped with the other populations, as we have said. A social economic aid package. More health personnel – you know that there is a shortage of health personnel. Don't lock the consultants of the people of Segria in the summer – there is a great deal of concern in this regard. More squadron moves and add effort to the state's security forces and cosmos. Can't they add up? Both the coasts? So much for asking for help? So much for asking for help? They live in prejudice and patriotic rhetoric, which makes it impossible to settle down in the common sense. The effects, as we said, will be noticed in time, but we are convinced that, obviously, Lleida will rise up and have a government that is not at his side. We note installed in the complaint, installed in the heavyweight, in the tacticalism. And they have been oblivious to rule and a very large territory: our territory occupies 40_percent of the surface of Catalonia, and has many needs, and has many projects to pull forward. We have already said that in order to govern we need illusion, we need gain, we need skill. And it gives us the feeling that you, at these times, have no illusion, no gain, no ability to deal with this crisis and the difficult years that will come later. Counselor, really, do you think you have the authority and the trust to follow, as things have been? We believe that no, we are convinced that no. Actually, do you know how we feel? We felt that no one had ever humiliated and needed Lleida as much as you. And they offend them a lot, but come to the territory and ask what people think, come and see how people feel. Therefore, or change, they make self-criticism, a more humiliating thing, or leave already, because it must advance and because the years that have come will be extremely difficult. And, above all, we will take a long time to forget the consequences of the pandemic, but we will also take a long time to forget this new burden on our territories. Because maybe you don't know, but do you know where Catalonia has been since 2010? Read it. Do you know what the territory of Catalonia is, I'm sorry, from all over the state, the territory of the whole state where there's the most escape from doctors? Read it. Where is there less public work, is the 40_percent of the territory of Catalonia? Read it. This is all hospitals, you know, CAPs, schools, career paths, optical fiber, etc. Since 2010, not a year. Therefore, less patriotic rhetoric and more money to the assumptions so as to be able to address this situation. Where else was the refocusing and retailing of public services paid for? To the most rural territories. You don't have to be very smart. Therefore, counsel, we believe, we offer humility, but clear ideas, and we also demand humiliation on the part of the Government to recognize things that have not been done well and to take steps to improve a management that has not been uplifted, has not been objectively uplifted, and that has, as we have said, led to enormous economic, social damage, and that, if we do not change, we will not reverse them. It may give confidence, trust and certainty, and you, objectively, not only for the media throughout the country, but also for the different broad sectors of the population and some of its political colour, do not give confidence. You have lost your credence, you have lost your trust, and, therefore, without confidence there is no government that is worth it or measures that allow us to pull forward. Therefore, trust, trust and more trust is what we need. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor. When you're ready, Mrs. Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.193.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, trust me. This is what Lleida's citizenship has to do, that when it has a complicated situation this government stays as never, as never, to lay all the necessary resources to face a difficult situation. That's trust. This is the confidence I want the citizens of Lleida to have, and I don't speak for myself, obviously, all the humility I put here. I put it to you, I put it to you, that's obvious, but above all, the ability gives the whole Health Department team, the whole Health Territorial team, the whole team we've deployed there to work in situ for a complicated situation. The lack of confidence would be for us to abandon ourselves and raise our hands. So no, we've acted. In front of situations, we act. You can't tell me in the same sentence if we've gone out of time or late or if we're doing the same thing in Barcelona. We act according to the situation, according to the situation where they are, and therefore Lleida we acted. And I said, three weeks later I moved myself to Lleida, but that's not all, I mean, we have people's teams working in Lleida. A person in my office who, moreover, is from that territory, working on the spot in Lleida with the teams. Where do you think we first reinforced primary care? Where do you think we've put these Covid managers first that will also help raise all the possible contacts now that we have a situation, so what can help us, now that we have all the cracks in business, and that we've done more proof than place, more proof than place? In the territories of Lleida. Therefore, reinforcement of the epidemiological surveillance services from there: 9 fixed persons, 3 of the Covid-19 program, 1 place that is reconvened, 5 reinforcements– 2 that start now to the August and 3 pending selection–, 2 nursing residents, 1 resident of medicine, 9 temporary adscriptions of employees, 4 persons of occupational safety supporting the surveillance service, 7 students of the UdL with agreement; total, 41 persons. In the field of care, coordination with the other reference hospitals, mainly of the Catalan Institute of Health, donated that form part of the same organization, institution. She calls for us professionals, and all of this has a situation, so let's all get away with it. And we also propose that Lleida have all the most suitable services. We double or do the CUAP twenty-and-four hours of the Prat de la Riba, the sector, we lay the carps, we lay lung ultrasounds, we double the visits to this CUAP, which allows people not to go to emergencies. Thousand-cent PCR exhibitions per day of ability, more than a thousand labs first, five hundred with the TSB, five hundred more than we would add to it with a new machine that was tested and that went into operation on July 13th. And that's why Lleida was tested harder than I was. But I want to highlight this, I want to highlight the social actions that we have been able to do in collaboration with the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families. This collaboration project also includes mayors, social media, SOC workers, social work, public health and primary care. These synergies between municipalities and health systems, which when they work very well and are essential, and in these months of future pandemics I think it is essential that it is working closely with the different municipalities. Social needs that we have to address, essential to work from the hands of mayors and mayors. All of this includes the twenty-eight people we have already put together as Covid managers integrated into primary care, who will also use the use of an application to be able to identify contacts, where we activate health social resources, where we also activate this field work, on land, where we have made Covid references to the different ABSs, which are forty-four people as clinical referents who have direct communication with epidemiological vigilance, and also with mayors. So, that's trust, acting there, acting there where the situations, that no one wants them, that no one wants them, but that they come from far away, and that you, when you have ruled Lleida, honestly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.194.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.195.0	...you could've done a lot more. [[remorse of the voice]] And so does the State, which has its powers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.196.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] [[Inquiries to the Government on policies for the promotion and deployment of electronic communications infrastructures]] [[300-00285/12]] Let us move on to the seventh item of the agenda, which is the question to the Government on policies to promote and deploy electronic communications infrastructures, formulated for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. To expose her, Mrs. Anna Tarrés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.197.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors. Counselor Puigneró, today, one more time, we bring to Parliament a subject that we consider to be of great importance. We've insisted a lot on the length of this legislature. It does not mean that the situation we have experienced in the past few months has given us reason: the deployment of the public optical fiber network of the Government of Catalonia is a project that has been driven by the department and defended at all times for our Parliamentary Group of Joints for Catalonia. The European Commission has long proposed a series of measures to ensure that all citizens of the Union can have a better connection to the Internet. The aim was that citizens could participate fully in the economy and the digital society, according to the Gigabit Society programme, adopted on September 2016, the clearest example of this commitment; a compromise aimed at ensuring by 2025 that all schools, public ownership centres and economic activity areas have access to Internet connections with speed of agigabit. And also to ensure that all European, rural or urban areas have access to networks that offer a speed of access to the Internet of at least 100 mega. It is in this context when the Generalitat de Catalunya, the Catalan local authorities and deputies decide not to be aliens at this turn and sign at the end of 2016 the impetus of the National Pact for the digital society, which is ratified in November 2018 for the Parliament of Catalonia. It has been understood that these great reptiles of country can never be entomized in a winged way. This is a shared challenge, and in the area of infrastructure, important steps have already been taken to move forward in the deployment of the public optical fibre network, which must be financed equally by the Government of Catalonia and the four Member States. These pandemic months we have been able to prove that the need to be well connected has been basic in order to ensure the provision of services and work from home through teletreball, and to be able to offer electronic commerce services or telematics management in many areas of society. This requires at these times an action plan to accelerate this deployment and bring optical fiber and connectivity across the country. This is a project that today we can qualify as success, without any doubt. The department, in its moment, has committed to hold this year 2020 all the region capitals of our country connected to optical fiber. As can be seen, this work is taking place tirelessly in the last few months. Nor has the current pandemic situation put an end to these jobs, the result of the qualification of the same jobs as the Emergencies during the months of confinement. In this sense, and with the daily task, we are sure that your department will be able to honour its commitment to have all the nuclei of more than fifty inhabitants connected before 2023. The job is done, and in this Parliament, when we exercise control in the government's pocket, it also stands out when the job is well done. The situation of the crisis resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic feels and is a challenge for our country in many areas, in technology as well. We must remember and remember that in this Parliament we have been hearing speeches from some opposition groups that carried very hard against the government's digital policies. Counselor, how much reason they wanted to insist on the capital import of digital transformation. This very Parliament is witness to this digital transformation. Thanks to the insistence of my parliamentary group, Juntes per Catalunya, in the establishment of commissions and the telematic vote, this Parliament has been able to continue to develop its pocket throughout the confinement. During the debate on the supposition sections, we felt that the Ciutan Group accused it of investing in digital development. According to them, what the government wants to do is a digital coup. Or the group of socialists, when I asked what was the presuppositional party behind the digital republic. After what we have experienced, no one today can doubt the phone book that the new technologies have in the world in which we are living. The country that we want is a technologically forward-looking country where connectivity is something fundamental, and we don't want a technologically forward-looking and captivated country, just because we need a country with a strong business fabric that captures foreign investment and generates skilled and quality jobs. And this, in the year 2020, is impossible without adequate public infrastructure, infrastructure that guarantees the same technological progress. « An asphalt kilometre connects one municipality to another; an optical fiber kilometre connects us to the world. They're not my words, counselor, they're yours. It can be said higher but not clearer. Catalonia, which we want, which, of course, is also a national Catalonia, is a Catalonia connected to the world, and we do not understand it in any other way. And Catalonia, which is open to the world today, has a government that understands that its role is to facilitate progress, to facilitate progress by putting it not only in the abst of people, but also economic operators. That's why we defend projects from your department, like optical fiber, with so much vehemence. The public optical fiber network supposes to put the progress to the service of people in a country as rich and diverse as Catalonia, and, above all, because it supposes to achieve equal opportunities. Today, a good connectivity puts on an equal footing a view of the Eixample of Barcelona with a view of the smallest town of the Vall d'Aran, and a company of an industrial polygon of the metropolitan area with a company of Osona or Ripollès. It is so easy: connectivity is a key element for economic and social progress. In this sense, the government's deployment of a public optical fiber network is a real social policy. We do not believe that only social policies remain those that have a welfare character; what we are talking about is a social policy of the 21st century. We believe in it; you, counselor, don't make it any clearer, you believe in it too. We are also connoisseurs that the optical fiber of the Generality does not directly reach all the worlds – this is in the hands of private operators. As the telecommunications sector is a liberalised market, it cannot be provided directly with public money. Therefore, there is also a follow-up of coordination actions in the local world to encourage municipalities to launch initiatives and projects that help and facilitate the arrival of optical fiber at home by reversing and facilitating joint ventures. We know that this project has a future, but it still has to complete some of its stages, and we know that it is urgent that these infrastructures reach all and every reason of our country. And this is the reason for our questioning today. In this sense, Counsellor Puignero, we would like you to explain to us what is the capture of his department and his plans to bring the optical fiber network to all the municipalities of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.199.0	Well, thank you very much, Congresswoman, thank you for your inquiry. In fact, I welcome it, and I would like other groups to do so too, and to present us with questions in the field of optical fiber, they understand that it is such a necessary infrastructure for the country; unfortunately, it does not pass, and has not passed, to the length of this legislature, eh? All the questions I've had respect for how to deploy, how to, including, deploy more, huh? , optical fiber for the country, therefore, have only come from its group. Anyway, I always like to, like, engineer, value as I am, huh? I think in order to get a good look at the work we've done and the work we have to do, so we have to measure how the country is in fiber optics, huh? There's a very famous Galilean Galilean phrase that said "measure everything you can and, what you can't, make it measurable, huh? I like to add to it that because everything that can't be measured can't be evaluated, huh? And the one who can't evaluate, so it can't get better. In this sense, I will take over, therefore, in order to measure how the country is doing in the deployment of digital infrastructures, I will take over a recent report, study that has made the prestigious University of Deusto taking over the European indicator, the DESI, eh? , of digitalization and digital economy and digital society of the European Union, we make an overview of the different countries most digitized in Europe, and, based on this methodology..., the application in the case of Catalonia. Well, in this study done by the University of Deusto, together with the University of Tecno – which is the Technological Circle of Catalonia, which has collaborated on it – which was published this week, it turns out that Catalonia comes out..., if it were a state it would be the fifth most digital country in Europe. But the good news in this sense is that for what it does to connectivity, therefore, for what it does to the deployment of digital infrastructures, it places the quarters – the quarters. And for what he does, say, to mobile phone coverage, he places us second. So, man, when we dedicate ourselves, so, say so, huh? , to evaluate policies, to assess what governments do, to assess what the market also does, because obviously, this also makes different actors, we situate ourselves and compare ourselves with other territories, as are other countries at European level. We also have points of better – you also say this study, huh? For example, the price. Probably on the issue of the price that citizens and businesses pay for these telecommunications still, so we don't get so well rated, huh? So, here's a point where we have to put ourselves... better. Anyway, this is a long-running strategy, huh? The deployment of an infrastructure like optical fiber is not just a tape that has developed this government. I also want to put it in value, these last two years, things that have been going on and that have allowed us to be where we are today, huh? To begin with, I would like to be remunerated, so, at the end of 2010, when it was already over, say, the tripartite government, where an agreement between the then Convergence and Unity and the Republican Left creates an indispensable tool to make what we are explaining today possible, huh? , and it's the creation of the Open Range of Catalonia, which is this tool, this tool that has allowed us, during all these years, to have a majorist deployment tool of optical fiber network. Therefore, put into value that agreement they made at that time Convergence and Unity and Republican Left. Also put in value what you have already commented, deputy: the year 2016 is approved the National Pact for the digital society, an agreement of all the institutions of the country. And when they all say: Government of the Generality, the four deputies, the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Catalan Federation of Municipalities and the Consortium AOC, Localret and, at last, a year later, or a few months later – I don't remember now exactly if it was a year, but it was a few months later – ratified, huh? For this department. Therefore, an instrument also serves to continue to deploy this essential infrastructure to make this country a country of opportunity. Finally, we also highlight, for example, how in March 2019 we signed the National Fibre Commitment, huh? , the Palau de la Generalitat, between the four deputies and the Government of Catalonia, precisely to involve the deputies in this last mile. Because we find that the Generality is deploying its trunks to reach all the districts, but after the last few miles, so these last miles to reach many people, such as members of the Chambers, we have to do it together, and that is why we are working on this great agreement that we signed in 2019, and that we are concretely agreeing with the Chambers. We've already approved it for more than a year with the Barcelona Council, and recently with the Girona Council, and we're about to do it with the Tarragona Council and the Lleida Council, because precisely we want to get to all these small municipalities with the optical fiber of the Generality. And, finally, this July of 2020 we gave a reinvigoration to the National Pact for the Digital Society; in view of the situation of the Covid, it was clearly determined by all actors that the impulse of the digital society was essential with the situation that we have found ourselves, and that, obviously, the whole digital process of Catalonia had to be accelerated. Also highlight, for example, in the matter of infrastructure, the recent announcement I made a few months ago, precisely in the midst of the Covid pandemic, of the agreement to bring a subsea cable to Catalonia, eh? Obviously, the cable has not yet arrived, but it will already arrive, say, approved, in this case, for the large cable operators, and we have put in place the facilities because this cable leads to and reaches Catalonia, and it will also be an essential infrastructure to continue advancing in this connectivity that Catalonia needs. In short, listen, we already have the works to finish what is all the connections of region capitals, this will pass this summer, so this summer we will have finished all the region capitals, except one. We have found ourselves with a problem, that it is a problem that it is a capital of region that there is no road of the Generality and we have to pass it through a road of the State and, therefore, we are in the phase of making this project, that is, in this case, the Suert Bridge. But in any case, we already have the money to do so, and, quite simply, it is an administrative issue that I hope, therefore, that we can resolve quickly. In any case, this will be the end of 2020, but what I want to announce today is that in the proper government or in the next one, to see if we are in time in the next one, and if not, then the one that will be on August 4th, we will bring to approval a government agreement of the multiannual 2020-2021 worth 57_million euros to extend millimetres more optical fiber during this 2020 and 2021. We are talking, therefore, that between 2020 and 2021 we will have 1,300_kilometres of optical fiber. Why do you make an idea, huh? , is the distance between Barcelona and Waterloo, this is the distance of 1,300_kilometres. And it means we've reached 90 percent of the people of Catalonia. Does that mean we're done? No, we will remain this 10_per_cent, and this 10_per_cent is what I hope that, together with the parliaments, we will also be able to reach all the municipalities of more than 50 inhabitants for these two years, three years, until 2023, which is the compromise that this government has acquired, and which is what we have agreed with the parliaments and all the locals of this country through the National Pact for the Digital Society. In short, optical fiber is a great opportunity, or connectivity in general, huh? , because here it would also include 5G and other technologies, therefore, of connectivity. It's a great opportunity to fight depopulation, it's a great antidote to make this country a more territorially balanced country, to have and to give more opportunities to the citizen that they live in, in this case, therefore, to trades. We've clearly seen it with teletreball. We've seen that this is possible. We have seen that we can, for the first time, with an infrastructure of these characteristics, fix people to the territory, make people work from their people. Road infrastructure and railways have been very well along these years, but it is seen that they have also helped people leave their municipalities because they have spent time between towns and cities. Therefore, we have a great opportunity, the territory of Catalonia has a great opportunity, and this we have to put in value and we have to speed it up. And, in addition, because that's why we can do something that I think doesn't happen in any other sector: we can make it possible for the smallest people in Catalonia to have the biggest business in the world, and that means generating wealth for our territory, and that means that this Parliament is all compromised because in the next few years it's not just a government push, but on the assumptions that it's going to come, you help us all folded up that the parties destined to deploy optical fiber can finish this job, not 2023, if we can, try to do 2022 or 2021. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.200.0	Thank you, Counselor. The next question will change the order. The information of an alteration of the order of the day, which makes reference to the following two interpellations, 17 and 18, which intercede of order. So, let's go first on the 18th and then on the 17th. [[Question to the Government about the misinformation and lack of transparency in the Government's external action]] [[300-00289/12]] So let us start with the question that corresponds to the item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the misinformation and lack of transparency in the action of the Generality abroad, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Susana Beltrán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.201.0	Counselor, I had already asked the advisers who preceded him, but before talking about misinformation I would like to ask him to take into account the retired Venezuelan pensioners who have been in Catalonia for years, who came under very critical conditions, that this Parliament has spoken favorably several times and the advisers who preceded him also showed themselves in favour of taking into account their needs, because if before the Covid they were wrong, for now imagine what conditions they are in. What is happening is that beyond the good words nothing else has been achieved, and I am asking you for the subject of Venezuela, the subject of human rights is present in the Development Cooperation Plan 2020, in the Master Plan for Development Cooperation, and I am also going to ask you, to do something that is coordinated with the Councillor for Social Affairs and to do something to help the, the Venezuelan pensioners who are here in Catalan territory. Having said that, I'm going to talk to you about misinformation. Disinforming, advising, is deliberately spreading false, manipulated or biased information for hostile purposes. I believe, counselor, that your government, and especially your department, for a long time – not to take it personally – is a criticism that I make to the modus operandi of your department, and it is a criticism that I also make to the advisers who have proceeded to it –, use misinformation, use manipulation, use fake news for hostile purposes. And what is that hostile purpose? For it is to erode Spain and its democratic institutions; it is to charge itself with a rule of law, a member country of the European Union, which is Spain. And you confirmed it on September 6 and 7, 2017 when you loaded the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia. But this didn't come from that moment, it came from a long time ago, and the Department of Transparency, or badly called Transparency, had a lot to do with it. And how, in what way, how are they hostile and trying to erode Spain and its democratic institutions, and, therefore, are Catalonia also being taken forward? They do so with opacity and spending millions of euros on all Catalans and without being held accountable in this Parliament. And I'm going to give him data and I'm going to prove it to him. Without going too far, not long ago, you presented the Pla de govern obert, and I quote literally his words, he said: "The policies of govern obert are those that generate civic trust in the institutions. But we ask you to appear on the External Action Committee to account for that open plan to see how it approaches citizens, to see how citizens' trust is earned, and the forces supporting this Government voted against it. And you, we don't need to ask for your appearance, you should, if it's such an important issue as government overt – I understand it's the opposite of government tankat – then it should be you yourselves who would appear in the committee, which you haven't done. The Pla stratègic d'action exterior is suspended, is suspended by the Constitutional Court. Here you did have an obligation by law to come to the committee and present that external action plan, but you told us that since it was suspended, it was not appropriate to go to the committee to defend it. But, however, you have changed absolutely nothing of your external activity, making it very difficult for me to think that you are not following the line of opacity and also following the line of not respecting the laws. By the way, I also asked if you respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the judgments, and briefly replied that you did, that you did respect them, but nothing more. And I tell you, counselor, transparency is not a question of faith, or respect for the law, respect for the rule of law is not a question of faith, you have to prove it. If you are boycotting, or the parties that support you, you are boycotting the appearances so that you can explain how, for example, the government's delegations abroad are working, how it is being implemented or not implementing, because it is suspended, the Strategic Plan of External Action, if you do not appear, if you do not account, suspicion, or apart from that there is opacity, the suspicion is that you are doing what you want, and that is that, moreover, you are not being held accountable in Parliament. How will we believe them if they are not accountable, politically speaking, to the Parliament of Catalonia and especially to the opposition? I insist, you have to prove it, it's not a matter of faith. The amparo, we were talking about you and me this morning..., at a time when an independent transparency body considers that a Member – not only me, there are other Members who are in amparo, not only from my political group, but also from other formations..., at a time when an independent transparency body considers that the right of access to information has been violated, is that there is a very serious problem – there is a very serious problem. It has been said repeatedly that it is a preferential right, because it is the only way we Members have to control the action of the government. And here we have several safeguards: letters that you have sent at international level, do not want to tell us the interlocutors. Why? Why do not the interlocutors who have sent these letters mean? The contracts to the United Nations, answer us that since there are so many contracts to the United Nations, then, that there is a lot of work and they will not give us the information, which scares me. I mean, are there so many contracts with the United Nations in the last five years, counselor, that they are not able to give that information to Citizens? Or I also wanted to talk to you about the letters sent by Mr Torra, in which, in addition to saying barbarities, he shows a clear disloyalty and a clear opacity with those Catalans who do not think like you. And also, throughout these days, you have been talking about espionage, you have been talking about spies, and I want to talk to you about an issue that I think is also a very serious issue, which is the issue of the use of personal data of all Catalans that were used in the illegal referendum of October One. That personal data is still time for you to account in Parliament for what you did, and after October One, what you have done afterwards with that personal data, data that you talk about where we live, who we live with, maybe how many children we have. All that personal data, and that was used faithfully October One, when are you going to face the Parliament and say what you did with this data? There is no greater espionage in Catalonia than that. And it's still time for them to come here to account. A few days ago the Court of Justice of the European Union charged an agreement between the European Union and the United States for the transmission of data from European citizens, because it considered that the shield of protection was not effective enough to protect such personal data. But, instead, here you steal this data and it's okay. And I think we have to warn again and again about this fact, because there are many ways to put people at risk, to put the lives of Catalans at risk, and one of them is precisely with the theft of their personal data. Have these personal data been sold? Who has such personal data right now? If they really were so brave to come here on September 6 and 7, 2017 and charge the Constitution, the Statute of autonomy, and also the fundamental rights of all Catalans, how come they have not yet come to Parliament to account for what they did with this personal data? It's time to face it, counselor. It is time to come here, to turn aside other questions and explain to all Catalans what they are doing with their personal data, because, I insist, that is espionage, and that puts people's lives at risk. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.202.0	To answer the question, the words of the External Action Advisor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Soler. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.203.0	Very good late, deputies, deputy Beltrán, councilwoman. President, thank you. The truth, Mrs Beltrán, is that this morning I tried to figure out where I would lead the inquiry, and the truth is that I thought we could debate, we could talk about transparency, we could talk about open governments, but other times you take advantage of this window to try to talk about transparency politics, data politics. You take from us a series of themes, talk about September 6 and 7 as an opacity practice. We're talking about transparency, I'm sorry. On 6 and 7 September in this parliamentary chamber a series of parliamentary initiatives were approved, a chamber representing the sovereignty of the country and, therefore, of opacity, head, because, moreover, it was transmitted through the Parliament Canal. Opacity is the adoption of an article 155 to which you gave support and which one day for another took out a legitimately chosen government. He also told us about the suspension of the External Action Platform. I want to remind you that Catalonia has many years of an external law, and that this law of external action gives some skills to the Government of the Generality, and, concretely, to the department that I have to captivate and, therefore, it is through these skills that the department, which the Government of the Generality explains to the world, explains itself from the world throughout its complexity, and does so through the delegations, despite the fact that you do not like them. As you know, through a persecution of former Minister Borrell, three of these delegations, therefore, were suspended for a while, but finally the feeling as it was imposed and today we have this network of fifteen delegations, which has allowed us, among many other things, to return thousands of Catalans to a crisis situation, and I do not want to extend it, because I have many more things to explain to you. He also told us about the cards of the very honorable president of institutions, and his opacity. Well, if you know this card, it means that, of course, we are not, because it means that this card has been known, it has been explicit and it has been published and, therefore, it does not talk about opacity, because in any case this Government of the Generality, this Government, is not completely opaque in anything. I also benefit – it is that he has told us about so many themes..., about the reference he made to the retired Venetian pensioners who are being screened. Well, for us, for the Government of the Generality and, in this case, it is hard for us to comment without the presence of the incumbent councillor in this area, but for us not only the retired Venetian pensioners are concerned about our policies, they are all and, therefore, if they are here, they are still here, they come from where they come or speak the language that they speak, so they will be considered through the social policies that develop from the Government of the Generality. Let's really talk about the one who, in principle, raised this question. Let's talk about transparency. We have already done so in the last inquiry of this same Faristol, because, precisely, I insisted that transparency, data opening, is one of the fundamental pillars of this government, and it is because the recovery of trust in institutions, the recovery of the trust of the people of our country with our institutions goes precisely through this transparency. And we don't do it by obligation, we don't do it because parliamentary groups are asking us tomorrow, because you're asking us a thousand and a thousand questions – which I'll refer to later, too – but we do it by conviction, because everyone has access to it. Today morning I told her this way: we don't answer the questions because a deputy does them to us, but we answer the questions because everyone has access to them. Transparency is also an essential value for us in any democratic society, and it is precisely those more advanced democratic societies that have transparency policies in their priorities. And that's how we're working. And we don't do it in one way from what you ask of us, but we do it in a proactive way. I was talking about it in the morning, too: I'm publishing it. We have a portal, the portal of transparency, where everything that refers to government action is published and can be consulted, because we believe in the right of access to public information, we believe in the right of access to open data. And there are no times, now or ever, to politicize transparency; transparency is not politics: transparency is practical. And that's what we've done, and we've always done. He made a reference to data protection. I'm sorry, the biggest violation of data protection we've seen in this country is, among many other episodes, the one we've experienced these past weeks with spies from political representatives of our country, such as the same president of this chamber, Congressman Maragall or Councilman Puignero, who was here with us a while ago. Therefore, we are not talking about data protection violations, because it is still time for them to position themselves on this issue. For what he does to parliamentary control, which is one of the main tools to ensure this transparency, let him 'tell him that we obviously have the control session at each plenary, where each councillor, councillor and the same president can explain, but not only that, but we answer to all those questions that they ask us by writing. Specifically, in this later parliamentary term, we have responded to 849 parliamentary initiatives, of which 401 have been written questions and 448 requests for information. And not only that, we have not only answered them, but you have them available through our transparency portal, which you can consult from many channels. We have the web page available, we have the same Twitter as the transparency portal and, if you want, you can visit us in our department and we will give you all the information you need. Because before we answer, before we answer, before we answer an oral question or a written question, how we are curious and believe in transparency, we ensure that that answer is published, is published to the transparency portal. It's not just that, it's just that we publish it and, more importantly, we update it on a daily basis. But I already know that you already know this, you have not spoken many times, and that you precisely seek in these oral answers, or in these oral questions, they are headlines, is to make the media olla bully; but transparency, I know hard, but not as a woman, as headlines, the transparency that you give is rigor, rigor of a government. And so when they talk about misinformation or when they talk about fake news, I'd like to review the newsroom, and how many times have you based questions or parliamentary initiatives based on fake news. There's also a concept that's about access to information, and I didn't take it from the letter. You..., of the 849 parliamentary initiatives, 545 of the total, 545 have been formulated for your parliamentary group, for the Ciutadans Group, of which a 63_per_cent, when you asked the question, were already published. Therefore, it seems very good to me, they can ask the question, we will answer them, but it was as easy as accessing the transparency portal and seeing the answer. Many of these questions have not only been published, but have been repeated, that the same encapsulation serves for the same question on many occasions. You multiply the questions. And finally, good part or many of these questions, allow me to be curated, some of these questions, have been based on little contrasting news. And do you know what's going on? That this gives much work to the departments, and the departments are here to do work, so we are a Government; but the priorities of the country, as you repeat to us daily, that must work for the general interest of the citizenry..., the general interest of the citizenry is not to answer questions in a repetitive way, when you can find them in the portals of transparency, but it is to solve the daily problems of the people of our country. And, therefore, when I tell you that through this control we guarantee transparency, what I see in your questions is that your parliamentary activity ends up empty, because you can take advantage of these answers to present us a project for the country, although we are in the past; this chamber is to present projects, to present solutions, to present initiatives, and what you do is to take advantage of these answers to take them to the press or, finally, to bring them to the public prosecutor's office. Therefore, I invite you to walk, I said before too, I believe, the Vergés Councillor; I invite you to walk. It's very complex times for our country, and everyone has to put the collar down. I haven't seen them put down, I haven't seen them yet. What you have to do is bring projects, bring proposals, question the government when it comes to it, that's why you need parliamentary activity and parliamentary control, but do not use questions and answers, requests for information, to block government action. Why do you know what's going on? There is only one parliamentary life, and it is the life given to them by their voters, this great majority of voters, who at the time decided to vote for their choice. Anyway, that's how things go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the honourable Member has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.205.0	Councillor, on October 1, 2017, were the data of millions of Catalans not illegally used? Personal data? Is that true or not? And that you also knew that you were stealing data from millions of Catalans? Is that true or not? That's right. And it's still time..., it's been almost three years, and it's still time for me to explain who gave the order, how it was done, what they stole, exactly what personal data they stole, and what use they made, not just October One, but later. Where are our personal data today, on July 22, 2020? This is one of the biggest thefts in the history of the European Union, of personal data. And you say: "It would have to be exalted because they have spied on the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, and I have no illusions, among other reasons, because I too have been spied on, counselor, and I know precisely what the feeling is that they have spied on you, and not only for you, but also for the people around you. Then, espionage should not be a practice for use either in Catalonia or in the rest of Spain, it would be missing more. That is why I am giving you the opportunity to start explaining here in Parliament what you did with the personal data of millions of Catalans. It's just that it's very serious. And they don't realize it. You tell me: "They always keep on with the same mantra. Hey, do you think it's transparency that we've been doing for almost five years now and the government delegates abroad have never appeared in this Parliament? Do you call this transparency? Do you call it transparency for us to request a report from the Catalonian Union of Accounts on the management of these opaque delegations and the parties that support them to vote against it? Do you think that is transparency? It seems to you..., when an independent body of transparency protects us, is that you are violating that right to information. It's just that he's already been breached. And already repeated times, not only to me, but also to other Members, they have told them..., to refer to the transparency portal is not enough to guarantee in itself the right of access to the preferential information of a Member of Parliament of Catalonia, because a Member of Parliament of Catalonia is a representative of the citizens of Catalonia, and at the moment when you are violating that right, you are disabling Catalans. They are disabling the rights of all Catalans, because they are not telling the truth or being held accountable in Parliament. It is true, changing the subject, it is true that there are letters, that we are aware, that we have seen them, that they have been sent abroad, but we do not know who they have sent them to. And some of those letters say barbarity. Some of these letters are saying that the judges in Spain prevail, that the judges in Spain issue unfair sentences, that Spain is an authoritarian country. And what we are asking you is: to what interlocutors are you sending these letters? And you don't answer. And it is something that, personally, amazes me, because on the one hand they are brave to carry the rule of law and the fundamental rights of all Catalans, but then, when we say to them: "All right, now they take political responsibility, come here to the Parliament of Catalonia, face up, assume what they have done, then they hide. And our job is to go all day after you – which is not or should not be a function of the opposition MPs – to go after you to give that information. And the information that takes so long is precisely because you don't give it. And when I was listening to you a moment ago, I was thinking, "It's just that the government is going to tell us what we have to ask for and what documentation we have to ask for. It's just that we're already getting to this level. And no, sir, the role of the opposition is precisely to ask, first of all, what we want, and your obligation is to answer what we are asking. That would be the first phase. And the second is accountability. I insist, do you think that five years without delegates appearing abroad is transparency? Without you accounting for the four - year strategic external action plan, is it transparency? It seems to me that you are doing, on the good side, propaganda and bad practices, but not external action. And, in the worst case scenario, there are very clear suspicions of corruption, counselor. Transparency, nothing at all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the final reply, the counselor has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.207.0	Member of Parliament, I would like to reiterate this: I was pleased to talk about transparency, and transparency is not politics, and you have used this window to politicize transparency. I'll give you some examples. He talks about the appearance of the delegates, who do not appear, the delegates. Do you know what's going on? That his will is not that the delegates come, his will is that the delegates come home. You want to cancel all government delegations, because they have said it, and they have said it on repeated occasions. They'd want them all locked up. So don't tell me that you want delegates to be present, you want delegations to be closed. Why should I ask you a question: when do the ambassadors appear at the Congress of Deputies? When do the consols show up? Put a bad example, review the order of sessions a little. I don't have the feeling that they're coming. In addition, the foreign action of the Government of the State is a reserved matter, we have nothing to do with it, we explain what we do. And in these examples that I was telling you that I was going to put you down, you guys did a lot of sound when a fake news appeared – a fake news – that gave us a possible report that the U.S. delegation had sent to various institutions. Do you know what he was saying, this report? Do you know what he was saying? All the work that had been done from the Government of the Generality to face the Covid-19. Because we want to explain ourselves to the world, we want to share what's good for the world, and everything that's good for the world we want to bring and put it to the service of our fellow citizens, because that's how we move forward. We can't look at ourselves, they're moments to look outside, to look at 360 degrees, in all spheres. So, when you question foreign policy, what you do is close borders, close opportunities, and it's not time to close opportunities. He also spoke to us about the U of October 2017. I can assure you that the U of October 2017 was the most popular expression, the most democratic expression that our country has experienced in recent years. And he was talking about robbing us – he was talking about robbing us, huh? – used the concept of "robbery". What do you think of the robbers of individual and collective freedoms when the security forces of the State attacked people who were free to exercise their right to vote? Isn't that a freedom thief? Isn't that a right-wing thief? In this, you're quiet. They are completely silenced, because silences are interested in defending a series of rights. If you're defending the rights, you're defending all the rights, you're defending all the rights. And, therefore, be consistent, because the citizenry demands that the political representatives remain coherent. And in reference to the outside action that you... I already know you have an obsession and we won't give them an opportunity because you're constantly doing this persecution to us. You tell us that the foreign action of the Government of the Generality harms the image of the Spanish State. Doesn't it harm the image of the Spanish State a scandal like that of the monarchy, which we have experienced, and which is still the time that the Spanish State is a position? What's it to be a court of law in Switzerland that I put this topic on the table? What should international media be the ones who put this issue on the front pages? Doesn't it harm the image of the Spanish State when it pursues democratically chosen representatives? Therefore, when we talk about external action damage, they may need to shift their focus and, instead of looking at this opening that we make from the Government of the Generality to the world, look at other governments that are not so long away and will surely find the answers. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.208.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about espionage to political representatives]] [[300-00287/12]] Next, we turn to the agenda item, which is the Government's inquiry into the espionage of political representatives, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.209.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors. Last week we knew that the mobile phones of the Speaker of the Parliament, also of some Member, such as the case of Ernest Maragall and the spokesman of the CUP of the last legislature, Anna Gabriel, who was exiled to Switzerland, had been spied on, so that all their activities had been monitored. We know that they had been monitored for a program, which is called Pegasus, developed for an Israeli company, NSO Group. We also know that NSO Group only manages, because that's what they say on their website and in their few interventions, because it's actually a pretty opaque company... that only manages these monitoring technologies to governments, that's to say, only the governments of the states can buy tools like Pegasus, and that these tools are designed to pursue, to fight terrorism and organised crime. Therefore, the use of this tool in an accredited way, because it is believed that this tool has been used against politicians or social leaders, the use is, if not, ethically reprobable. The software, NSO Group, has already been used to track different activists, social leaders of the world. We have the case of Jamal Khashoggi, a critical, Saudi, murdered and tortured journalist who was monitored, we know, forewarned his murder, through this tool. A tool that, by the way, is not expensive people, their prices you can find for the internet publicly. Only buy the eine is already worth 650.000_euros and, apart from 500,000_euros each pack of deu people they want to spy on. The New York Times also explained with Omar Radi, in this case of Morocco, had also been monitored. Also for the Mexican government, which served with different objectives, in this case yes, to follow the Chapo Guzmán, a drug dealer, but they also discovered that the international team investigating the famous murdered or disappearance of forty-three students in Mexico had been spying. NSO Group had been able to access, therefore, a number of phone calls that posed a vulnerability of an application that is WhatsApp, and if we learned from that, it is because the same WhatsApp discovered that it had a vulnerability; he warned The Citizen Lab, from the University of Toronto. From here, an investigation was started, to which the Guardian joined, and from here they discovered: "Listen, among the people we have detected there are those people from Catalonia who have been spies, who have been intervened. That's thanks to what WhatsApp found, that's to say, you know with all those apps that don't have the resources, that don't dedicate the resources that WhatsApp dedicates to security, which they could get to do. To all this, take whatsapp, take advantage of this vulnerability through a very easy thing, which was a lost trick or through a malicious link that sent you, so it was installed in your phone on this spy program. « Program spy means that the mobile phone, which we carry all day over, do not only see you capture the screen and the WhatsApps you are sending. That means you can turn on the camera, you can turn on the microphone at any time. So, it's a hard violation of anyone's intimacy. We know that they have done so with the President of this Parliament, with some Members, but we do not know the activists or the people of organised civil society who may also have been spies. More than a hundred journalists, activists and world arrest lawyers, according to The Citizen Lab, from the University of Toronto, say they have been punched. He came out of this news and the Spanish government did a little along, to say it in a popular way, until at the end of a few hours he came out Vice, which he had found, from an ex-baller of the NSO Group who escaped to Israel and went to the United States..., and then he said: "No, no, no, it's that the first European state that bought this tool in an accredited way in 2015 was the Spanish State, and added: "Hey, and we were super happy, because for the first time he bought us this tool in a state. It's not that before the Spanish State you don't spy, neither are we naive. Before he made use of another tool that is said Hacking Team – hacking, these are already clear –, Hacking Team, an Italian tool. And, therefore, we have independent policies, with the least, spies. That the Spanish government tells us that he wasn't okay, he went, we think that the State..., or, let's see, we see that we believe that the Spanish State really is telling us the truth and that they didn't spy. But we make every effort. Don't leave me alone, with Mrs. Roldán and Mr. Alejandro, I really believe that the Spanish State hasn't been spying. Therefore, we make the effort and imagine ourselves, and we believe, that the Spanish State has not been the one that has been watching and who has been spying on Catalan policies. Come on, we do. The moment the Spanish State says it hasn't been, the Spanish State is primarily responsible for protecting its citizens. He's the first actor to decide, to act as an officer... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Alejandro, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.210.0	Mr Fernández, has the word Deputy Wagensberg. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, I don't care what I said. Mr. Wagensberg, forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.211.0	Besides, I was explaining a very good acquittal, which is that we believe the truth of what the State says... an acquittal of what the Spanish State says. We believe what the Spanish State says: "We have not watched. We believe what the CNI says, which says, "We don't spy on anyone without a court order. Therefore, option 1: there is a court order against President Torrent, against Deputy Ernest Maragall. Why? For your political option? They don't know. Option 2: There has been no Spanish State. The Spanish State has to act as an office, it is primarily responsible for the citizens, and also for the elected bodies of its state. They're the first ones to be investigating what happened and not to say, "Look, Mr. Torrent, if it seems like it, go away and report it to the police and we'll see what's going on. But what's this? They're spying on mobile phones, political dissent. They're posing at the level of Saudi Arabia. But it's a shame. And what's a shame isn't that you're doing this already, because what I can buy is that the CNI has been acting like an underside, without..., mutated and in the cage. And one thing we all know is what the State is and the other is the government. But the moment this is known and believed, how can it be that the Spanish government does not begin to investigate activities such as these activities, go, I don't know, that we should all be concerned? Because today's political dissent – we are very clear – we are the independenceists, but tomorrow you know who the political dissent is, and you know who it is. You see, don't you? One day... don't fight so hard, it's what's thanks to him, Alicia? Is it that I don't know what he's doing because they're spying on us all? You don't see that one day you too are political dissent. You see not one day these Citizens' Lords, with the Lords of the People's Party and with the Lords of Vox, end up ruling and not spying on you either. And then they'll all be sorry. You see, it's not like that. So, for..., he went to say by normality, but he doesn't have any, by normality. For a democratic issue, what interests us all is to really find out what happened here later. If there really is a judicial authority to spy on Mr. Maragall, Mr. Torrent, Mrs. Anna Gabriel and so many others, they explain it to us. And if there is no judicial authority and the CNI has spent these money spying, like, at least, these two deputies – one of them chairman of Parliament – an ex-parliamentary and you know how many... They didn't just go for tricks, did they? We've been a few MPs we've had some tricks on. There have been lawyers, lawyers who have been defending political prisoners in the Supreme Court, who have also refused to make calls to prove their mobile phones. But... I myself uninstalled the WhatsApp, died last week. Why do we have to do this? It's just that I think that when... if you're not likely to suffer from repression or espionage, you can't even imagine what you're supposed to live with being spying on your private life. And I'm hard aware of these glances that you're laughing at, please, the independent children are already laughing at their things. But it's a very hard thing. It's a very hard thing. And the Spanish government is the first to investigate where this comes from, bearing in mind that it's a tool that only states can acquire. So either it was the Spanish state or it was the government of Kuala Lumpur. I don't know, I have no idea. But they're looking into it, they're looking into it. Where are we going with all this? And the other is that – I have one minute left, I take advantage of it – the fraudulent use they make of data that they collect spying, even though they have judicial permission. Because we all remember conversations that have nothing to do with the political issue that they were following, in the case of the October U referendum, and with private personal conversations with the will to destroy people have been published. And no one here has asked for responsibilities? No one here has said: "Listen, how can it be filtered out? Despite the secrecy of the summary, despite the confidentiality... how can it be that these conversations have been leaked in the diary? To the Confidential. Come on, it looks like the armed arm of the government, sometimes. I don't know, there's a lot of questions that need to be clarified. What, Counselor, would you like to explain to us, given that the Spanish Government is doing nothing in this sense, how do you intend to pressure the Spanish Government? And if we have any tools, somehow, from the government of Catalonia, too, so we can investigate something as hard as this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.212.0	Thank you, Congressman. To respond, the Foreign Affairs Councillor, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Solé, has the stop. Forward. [[Widow's remorse.]] Members...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.213.0	Good afternoon to everyone. MPs, MPs, President, if I may, I'll lock up the furniture, it's no coincidence that these people are spying on us. [[Funnel veils]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , have the Parliament Channel open and 'lsgeneressin interferences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.214.0	Deputy Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.215.0	We're shutting down the furniture...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.216.0	When you touch the tower, I'll talk. If not, I let the others talk. If he doesn't, I'll have to call him to order. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I insist, I'll have to call him to order if he stays the same. Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.217.0	Deputy Ruben Wagensberg. I remember the last Ple, or the last Ple, talking here through an inquiry about one of the scandals that the Spanish State had experienced at last, and that we thought would be insurmountable. The escandol of the monarchy. The escandol of this modus vivendi of many political and economic elites that have, precisely, converted corruption into a modus vivendi. But now we find ourselves again, despite the fact that we understand it, despite the fact that we expected it... we find ourselves with a new scandal, a new case of espionage, a new case of persecution, of persecution of the phonenal rights as people. A persecution and a violation of any human right, therefore, what is produced here would be denouncing to any state of the world. And we also see a common practice, in this case, of the Spanish State and of many parliamentary groups represented in this chamber: the practice of silence, of absolute silence. We have in front of us a case of maximum gravity, you have described it in an exemplary form and, moreover, very accurate. A spying of political opponents, that's all you're saying. Let us spy on those who do not think like us, let us spy on those who "dissociate themselves from what should be considered as the official speech. A spying based on a tool that, in principle, and in the end, should only be available to the states. But it turns out that since the year 2014 this tool is working and making its searches. A tool designed to combat international terrorism, and which I am aware of today, people who have been spied on hardly have attitudes that promote international terrorism– you can prove – and a practice extended from any state that can self-identify as democratic, because in democratic states, if there is any kind of espionage, is under control, under judicial control, and never to pursue political rivals or to pursue non-government institutions for those who have their tools. Today, we, the independenceists, are at the point of being able to be spyed on, to be observed and, even so, to be judicialized. But tomorrow it can be any one of you. Right now, Congresswoman Beltrán – and she knows it's hard for me not to follow – explained to us that she had felt spied, that she had been spied. I ask him – in any case, you, as companies, ask him –: has he denounced it, that? Did he report it? I mean, if she really felt spied on, did she report it? Because it is he who should make any person, any political representative. See if they'll make an answer. Because in the end the criteria for being spies is not the potential danger that that person can generate, but the way that person thinks. Because, you'll tell me what you can find a president of a parliamentary chamber who can have a certain relationship with those motives for which people can be spied according to international rules. What can a politician as respectable as Congressman Maragall find? I don't know, if they can find a lot of information. Or, in any case, maybe they're doing it to learn from their political value. Do you know what's going on? That when the State practices and normalizes espionage to political rivals, the State ceases to be the guarantor of the phonenal rights, that same State ceases to be a democratic state. A state that approaches dictatorial regimes, practices of dictatorial regimes, becomes part of the group of states that violate human rights, those that pursue and undertake for their own ideas, those that normalize judicial impunity or those that look at another band when human rights are violated, or those that struggle for certain crimes. Before they told us about the damage that this could cause to the international projection – they were talking about Catalonia, but in this case, we are talking about the Spanish State. Don't you think these practices don't hurt the image of the Spanish State from the world? What can the rest of you think when President Sánchez sits down to negotiate the reconstruction fund? With what credibility is it possible to sit in that table, when one week before, in your own State, there were spies and even as many people as the president, who should be the guarantor of the human rights of the citizens? Let me make you a little memory. It's not the first case of espionage. I want to remind you of that documentation that Minister Borrell made available to the High Court of Justice to justify the closure of three government delegations – before we talked about government delegations. Remember the follow-up, in this documentation? Remember those documents that showed a follow-up and espionage to delegates, the same Foreign Affairs advisor and the citizen of other countries? Remember that name Borrellgate? They don't remember that anymore? So it turns out that they have now moved from Borrellgate to Catalonia, and the attitude of the State has been exactly the same: silence. Because you think silence erases everything. But Europe remembers, and the world also remembers; and so much, if it remembers. Precisely, last month, in the periodic assessment made by the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations, the Spanish State received 275 recommendations for the protection and guarantee of human rights. But not only that, but this July, when assessing the compliment of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on the part of the State, the UN Council, the United Nations, had already put forward manifesto, through the formulation that the rest of the states make, until twenty-six warnings for incompliments of this pact and practical contracts to rights and freedoms. And of these twenty-six interposable alerts for the rest of the states for the Spanish State, in most cases the Spanish State has responded with an administered silence. Nor has he responded to these warnings formulated in his of United Nations, alerts about subjects such as racism, police rapes, discrimination, gender inequality, male violence, expulsion of immigrants and the same ICES, the law bites or the law of amnesty of 1977, among others. Since the Government, since the Government of the Generality, we will not be left with folded arms, it is obvious that we will not be left there, because we have proven that the State is silent before the violation of elementary rights for the citizen. And, therefore, let's explain where you need these episodes that are really hard. Because while the Spanish State – to put forward several examples – buys weapons or spy software, Catalonia promotes projects and humanitarian aid actions; because while the Spanish State looks at another band ahead of them like the one of the monarchy, Catalonia celebrates here, in this one, the 1st Summit of Fight against Corruption; because while the Spanish State is chasing and spying on people for its way of thinking, Catalonia pursues offenders with the approval of anonymous warrants for alerters. And, for all this, because this model of state does not represent us or have fit in this post-Covid world, from the government and from the country, we will continue to work to give response to people's needs, we will continue to denounce persecutions for thinking and we will continue to defend individual and collective rights and freedoms. Because another model is possible, there's no doubt about it, and we'll make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.218.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, Mr Wagensberg has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.219.0	[[The timer laughs.]] I mean, the truth is, I didn't think I'd do that. Therefore, I would often say that it is not a reply to you, counselor, but that I have been forced to defend Councillor Puignero or, rather than defend him, to ask for proof to you... Well, to you and to Ciutadans, who also came out the first day, without knowing anything at all, he left quickly: "This followed your governing partner. Look at him... it's like... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Come in... collect. [[The timer laughs.]] Between Lorena Roldán and Alejandro Fernández or the University of Toronto, The Citizen Lab, The Guardian and El País... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Alexander, Alexander, maybe yes, I don't know. But the truth is that now, seriously speaking, I would appreciate it if before making such serious accusations as the Citizen Lab, The Guardian and The Country did, believe, believe what they say, believe that there is spying here and that they are preparing. Do it, because these people carry a lot of investigative months before they publish the news. They're doing the same thing. I don't know. There's something else, too. If you spy on us, Mr. Puignero... I don't know, maybe spy on us, in this life I'm after you don't put your hand in the fire for anyone. But in any case, I might as well spy on you. Well, not to you because they're too few, but maybe to Ciutadans, I'd spy on them, wouldn't I? I'd say, I'd say. I don't know. (Founding voice) Therefore, today we have found, these days we have found, something we already know, that there is a brutal war against independence, that there is a general cause against independence. We knew, and now we have believed, that this brutal war against a minority is very grateful to everyone, we see it, because they don't stop laughing, but I shouldn't have thanked them, because anything can be found there, in this situation. And let us not say this to ourselves, but yesterday the communication team, which carries the Twitter of the Council of the Judiciary, told us clearly and strictly yesterday, to act with the necessary firmness against the insanity of these independenceists, the independence challenge. I don't know what legal terms you take, but to my independence challenge sounds more like I'm being told here by someone from you or Pedro Sánchez, huh? Also, at least, not that a judge says so. Therefore, a minority who have systematically violated their rights do not think that it deserves to be only self-defended for them, but that it is a question of any Democrat, who must ask all of us. All of us need to be questioned. And what I'm worried about is that we're taking this as if you've come here to do the comedy club today, and you're all laughing. That's what I'm really worried about. That's what I'm worried about, because we've been in this country for many years... in this country, people have been buried alive in their guts, political dissidents. With live pants, Isha was buried in the wedges. Imagine if we're carrying things. Imagine if we have to worry. It hasn't been so many years since he buried people with pants alive in this country. And not with a People's Party government, exactly. Therefore, what I would ask... does not require at any time that we share our postulates, nor much less, would be lacking, but does require a little rigour or solidarity, if you want to say so, democratic for all of them, that I am sure that I am the majority, that you do not agree with these attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.220.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[He asked the Government about the balance of general government policy]] [[300-00290/12]] Let's move on to the next inquiry, which is about the balance of general government policy, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Mr Alejandro Fernández spoke about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.221.0	Thank you, President. Well, I've got two minutes, which I'm used to being a higher figure than I usually have in this Parliament, and so I'm going to take advantage of it to say a few things. And I can't help but mention it... made a little embodiment, huh? , that the president, after what has happened to President Torra this morning, who talks about anything less than what I asked him, now that I didn't come to correct me, I hope. But only a small element to which he has passed to the previous inquiry. First of all, there's a principle I'm telling you about... he's not an artist I like very much, huh? But I say to him the principle of the Eros Ramazzotti, which is: "Look at me, you know it, I know it. And you know perfectly well that espionage is more of yours, of the independenceists, than anything else. I knew it. And in private you recognized him. So let the comedy end one time. You know that. You know that. Look at me. You know, I know. And so far I can read. You knew perfectly well. And that's it. So let's stop acting here, make the victim, and I don't know what, because you know it perfectly. Perfectly. And that's it. Second question. Clearly, to me, this from Catalonia of the land of pau and of... Well, so listen, I sock tarragoni, proud to be tarragoni and català, but we have to be aware of our history. That's to say, Fi, if there was a leading land in slavery, it was Catalonia. If there was a land, together with Red River Explosives, in the manufacture of weapons, it was Catalonia. So, we don't talk about Catalonia as a land of pau and I don't know what. We are still aware of our history. Here before the Councillor of Exteriors spoke of a story that has nothing to do with the history of Catalonia. « We are the leaders of the world pau. No, no, The other way around. In the time when Spain was in international wars, Catalonia was in the vanguard of the manufacture of weapons, first point, and second point, in slavery. So, let's get rid of the novels. This is the story of Catalonia. Perfectly documented. The Foreign Counselor is not there, so we can't beat him, but that's it. This girl pointed out, the first "you know it, I know it and it's gone. And, besides, Mr. Wagensberg said one thing that's very certain. He said: "No, it is before..., that you prove it and that it is proved. You made a personal opinion. I planted my own. And it's likely, you know, that I'm going to be rebutted over time. Or his. And in a while you gave me a collage, which is said, "Hey, you're wrong. Or me to you. I'll tell them mine. My personal opinion on the concrete case of the President of this Parliament is what I have just made. And it's a coincidence, it's a coincidence that the purchase by the Lord will carry certain equipment to Russia coincides with certain cases of espionage in a civil war that you have; so far I can read. Hey, listen to one thing, if you... you'll see, you'll see, you'll see. I give you my personal opinion. I give you my personal opinion. We'll see about that in a while, but, of course, you say you have to prove yourself, you haven't put them down, you've put in personal opinions, I'll put my own. Say that. The question we wanted to ask today, and now I see that I have a little less time left, but it was an interesting topic, huh? Because, of course, you can't let things be said... "No, it's that here... No, no, no, it's that Catalonia has its history, huh? No, we're not Heidi here, are we? The history of Catalonia is not that of Heidi and the grandfather of the mountain. No, no, no, no; here things have been done and things have happened. And, therefore, less Heidi and more reality. She commented to him, Madam Counsel, that Catalonia, unfortunately, in the later period, and followed the reflection that I had raised at the control session, had removed some signs of identity that had been identified with Catalonia historically, and that they had to see with the gathering of entrepreneurs, a culture of public participation with public matters, and that all of this in the whole separatist process had been settled by a question of alliances that had been made with the CUP for the past few years and that, in fact, you had decided this alliance, but that had liquidated what had been historically the political thinking of the former Convergence and Union. And he cited five examples. The first was a brutal attack without precedents to concerted education. The second was an attack on private property in the countryside, the natural environment, through the Agency of Nature. The third was an attack on private property through a law that, in our hearing, encourages occupation, and that, moreover, now, today, we have not spoken to the control session either, so he wants to try to control the logger in the place of public logger politics, impose a certain policy on the owners. In fourth place, a confiscation tax policy that had nothing to do with what Catalonia had historically held. I, finally, a policy of tourismophobia. No, I recognize it, I don't participate for everyone, I recognize it, but I do consent for everyone, that it's a different thing. I assume that not all of you are members of Government, a political fan of phobic tourism, but in the interest of a majority of the low-lying government that you have, you have accepted this speech, in the same way that you have accepted the speech of industrial fóbia, which this, in view of the future, is especially difficult. And now I see people here who know more than I do on this bench, and who don't say anything, but who know perfectly well that this speech is there. Only four brushes. First, Nature Agency. There has been a false debate, against thirty-eight mayors, five councillors and, moreover, violating private property, because, obviously, the public authorities have the right and the obligation to regulate uses, both urbanistic and natural, but never have the competence to regulate how uses are served. And that, the Agency of Nature..., and precisely for this reason it has such a great reputation in the Catalan countryside, beyond the games. There is no member of the People's Party in the rebuig. There are thirty-eight mayors, all of them from Esquerra, Convergence or PDECAT, or as I say now, five district councils. There is none of the PP, but it has a brutal rebuff because it is a violation of the rights in the rural area. Second question, concerted education. Historically, Catalonia, together with Navarre, has led private, public and private concertations in two areas: education, teaching, and sanitation. That's the reality. Catalonia and Navarre, all their lives. And, in turn, now it is dedicated, the Government of Catalonia, to attacking a certain type of concerted education that, at last, a person little suspected of being of the PP like Pilar Rahola, citing Hillary Clinton, has claimed the differentiated teaching of concertation, because it is not a question of discriminating against anyone, it is a free option, and it is not only free. I won't come in if you, ma'am will advise, we went to school, huh? , because each school studies where they can or where they want. I won't be there, but he won't tell me that this attack on a certain model... this was never done in Catalonia, we run the centerright or we run the centerleft. It had never been done, and therefore a negative consequence of all folded. Third question, appeal. We have presented it before the Constitutional Court to the Housing Decree which, in our opinion, turns Catalonia into a menu of okupa sites, which are decrees that end up giving a hug to the mafias of the occupation. It has been seen in the past few days, the last weeks, practically it was to approve the decree and suddenly and again we found in various barrels of Catalonia, in Tarragona, in Barcelona, etc., practices of this type, and that end up doing something that is, in our opinion, absolutely unacceptable, that is to guarantee a right, as I said this morning, that is the obligation of the Public Administration. The public administration has to guarantee the right to housing through its public promotion, but never in life can it violate the right to housing to private property, ever. Thank you very much for the new Esquerra - Together collaboration for Catalonia, which we found missing. They did not speak among you, and I thank you that they have come back from this inquiry to speak among you. But the most important thing is that, above all, I have present, and it's the most important, that one right like housing, that recognition, can arise by replacing it or degrading another right, like the right to private property. And finally, and I'm done because I've got 15 seconds left, is the speech of tourism and industrial fóbia, isn't it? Up a moment that people say, well, you don't like tourism, because you say it's expanding and degrading the territory. You don't like the industry because it pollutes. You don't like farms because they're expanding. And what do you like? Playing the bandurria in an okupa couple?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.222.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.223.0	What do you like? What do you like? Explain 'a thing you like...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.224.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.225.0	...that it remains productive, that it does not continue to play the bandurria in an okupa couple. So what you're asking for is a productive Catalonia, which is what you're carrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.226.0	To answer the question, you have the presidential advisor's word, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.227.0	I won't play the band because I don't know, huh? Well, thank you, President. Mr. Fernández : Junts per Catalunya som Junts per Catalunya, eh? I say this because I don't know so much about the name, it's been a long time, and in this Parliament itself, so we're like Juntes for Catalonia. And I also tell him that this councillor, and as a member of the government, speaks day after day with the rest of the members of the government, either from Esquerra Republicana or from Junts per Catalunya. Therefore, the dialog you have seen here today is not exceptional, but it forms part of the normality of our day to day, of the normality of this government. Well, it seems, Mr Fernández, that with this question you have taken advantage of to advance a few weeks the debate of general policy, here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, which already advances you that if you change, then, it will be this September, at the end of September. But I also want to say that with the Government we do not flee every opportunity to be able to talk about the general policy of this Government. In fact, every opportunity to balance government is a welcome opportunity on the part of the members of this government. A government that works for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans, and we don't have a problem with each other at any time of the legislature, sooner the other way around. As I said, an opportunity that you give me, with this inquiry, to explain the work of this government. As you know, as you know, Members and Members, the government's policy is framed in a four-axis legislative plan. A first one that speaks of a cohesive country, with rights and opportunities for everyone. Another one that speaks of a prosperous, responsible and sustainable economy, for a new production model and a fair taxation. Another one that speaks of a democratic, free and just society for shared governance. And the past speaks of a Catalonia open to the world. Four axes that mark our action of government and that accompany assumptions that now, as you know, we reiterate with the conviction that they will also help us to deal with the effect of the crisis of the Covid. The effects of a crisis like the Government we want and we need to address with the highest priority, because this Government is also completely compromised by economic recovery and the protection of the health and social well-being of all the inhabitants of our country. And precisely this Tuesday, in the press, the president and vice president will present the plan that sets the strategy of this government of economic reactivation and social protection, a document that includes, as you know, so many recovery measures linked to the direct management of the crisis as strategic actions that are deployed in a time of medium and long term, setting up twenty large country projects that are structured around, also, four priority axes: the economy for life, digitalization, the society of knowledge and energy transition, with the mobilization of resources more than ever. Allow me, however, Mr. Member, to disagree with you in your visit to this government's policy. His recurring speech from a secret government on an extreme left and not in centrality is, if I may, completely wrong. Because this government, precisely, we focus political action on our model of country, a model of country that has been evolving, like all modern society, these past years, but which is based on public-private collaboration as a way of doing very own. And I drove him off. For what it does in the context of a cohesive country with rights and opportunities for everyone, it allows brushed communities in education, in health, in the social sphere. Miri, as far as education is concerned: to highlight the pact against school segregation and the digital education platform in order to guarantee equal opportunities and fight against the digital bretxa, a priority that this pandemic of the Covid has also posed as a manifesto. And we also do so by shielding the Catalan education system as a mixed system between public and concerted education. Or, in greeting, for example, that we have reinforced all the primary assistance, we have increased the number of professionals or we have continued to work on improving or equipping ourselves with new infrastructures such as the new smart ICU in the Valley of Hebron or the construction of the new Hospital of Viladecans. And, in addition to highlighting the great personal and economic effort to deal with the Covid-19, I would like to talk about this effort and also to give a recognition to all the staff of our country's care network. A health system, remember-ho, formed for public equipments and for concerted equipments, in which the great part of the concert has worked as well as public sanitation. So much so that the citizenry does not differ whether the center is public or concerted. And I'm moving on to the social sphere. Highlight the approval also of the Inter-Departmental Family Support Platform, or the Catalan Strategy for the Collection and Inclusion of Infants and Young Migrants Alone, among other measures. Families, in the broadest diversity, as a pillar of society and solidarity with the most unprotected, because Catalonia is also a solid land, a land of attachment. I would also like to highlight the establishment of the National Pact Table for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, or the strategic work of social services and better access to housing for the most vulnerable. And we wouldn't understand all this political action without the work and collaboration of Third Sector entities, because this is also our country model. If we are talking about a secure, responsible and sustainable economy, in this respect, let's stress that the government has increased the assumption of employment policies and has fully deployed the guaranteed income of citizenship, because we don't want our country to be left behind. And, moreover, as I said before, the assumptions for this 2020 have been approved as referring to the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda, a challenge and a global compromise that this Government has also made to us. But I was also commenting that we are working on the reorientation of the assumption, and for what it does to this reorientation we are aware that we need to do it with complete rigour and that is why this Korean Economic Reactivation Plan is a solid plan, it is a detailed plan, but it is also a plan that is scheduled. In the field of balance and sustainability, and you talked about it, I want to highlight as key elements the Urban Agenda of Catalonia, the Strategy "Living country, country of opportunity, the new Single Market of works and services, the improvement and expansion of railway and metro installations and networks, the continued improvement of the road network or the Agency of Nature of Catalonia. And if we are talking about a democratic, free and just society, then tell him that it would highlight the approval of the Open Data Strategy of the Government of Catalonia, a good practice referent, with international recognition. And, in addition, we have promoted a digital country agenda, highlighting the rise of optical fiber to all and each of the capitals of our communities. Or the creation of the Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia, which must protect us all and each of us, beyond the approval of the 5G strategy of Catalonia or the Barcelona Digital Talent initiative. A country at the forefront of technology and betting on progress. And, in the area of equality between women and men, we have approved the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies, which counts on the actions of all departments of the Generality, so as to address gender equality from the maximum cross-sectionality. As for the struggle against male-based violence, the Pact for the eradication of male-based violence. And as we also want a safe country, because this is also our country model, we have provided more human and material resources in the areas of security and Emergency. And in this sense, I'd like to put in full agreement with the Bombers after two years of claim. And I end up with the last one, a Catalonia open to the world, because Catalonia has to be present to the world. We want Catalonia to be present in the world, and we do so from the fifteen government delegations abroad, but also from many other instruments available to Catalan companies, such as the forty offices of Action in the world. And finally, and as I said to the beginning, this government is working for the 7 million and a half of Catalans and Catalans, and we are strengthening our country model with our policies. And we did it in a coalition, ruling in a coalition, and we did it in a democratic backlash of the state, conditioned by repression, by the existence of political prisoners and exiles, by the judicialization of politics and by the loss of rights such as freedom of expression. And here they will also find us, and we are also like the Government, in the struggle for individual and collective rights of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.228.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a replica turn on the congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.229.0	Well, thank you, President. You did this to our question as if it were a general policy debate. You'll have to recognize, without revealing anything else, that, at least, I had to explain to you what you were talking about. This allowed you to make a perfectly planned intervention after a few hours; therefore, it is not so much. We're gentlemen, we're gentlemen, and so if anyone calls us to ask us what the question is going to be about, we'll explain it. But the explanation was not in absolute satisfaction, it had nothing to do with what I said, that is, we talked about a fiscal pressure in Catalonia. So there's no way to contradict what we say. And besides, not so much alone... that's fine, that you haven't done anything about the issue of finance either, have you? , because the Northern Year, which Catalonia recaptivated at 240_percent less, had a fiscal pressure on taxes that were of its competence half the lower. That is to say, Catalonia was gathering entrepreneurs more than the year before – the year before – than now, when it had a much lower capacity than it has now. So, this is already a sign of the meaning of what we're living on. According to the question: you say that Catalonia collects all kinds of teaching; it is not true – it is not true. This is where a conceptual and ideological attack against concerted education is taking place. And I'm going back to insist, I won't devote myself... I have the dice, but I don't, because I don't like it. I studied all my life in the public, public colleges of Sant Pere and Sant Pau in Tarragona – Mrs. Lorena Roldán knows this, that it is my life in Tarragona –, public college colleges of Pons d'Icart, in Tarragona, and Autonomous University of Barcelona, both licentiate and mastery, and it is my trajectory. It's funny, because all of you, most of you, I won't give details, the vast majority, they're all private separate schools. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, you don't know. [[relays]] You're from Cornellà. [[Funnel veils]] Don't say "Llobregat"; Cornellà, it's the same. But is it that you, who are dedicated to making according to five speeches? Home, for God's sake. And what do I do to defend educational freedom? Don't tell me you're defending her, huh? Because they have two years of destroying the legitimacy and prestige of the concerted teaching in Catalonia, when you studied the differentiated concert, the vast majority of you; I insist, I will not give names, but the vast majority – the vast majority – and it is reality, and you know it perfectly. So don't say they're collecting this model. Then, the issue of occupation. Well, that's very easy. If you have..., before I explained it to the control session, you have, after decades of family life, right? , a humble family, and you've been able to stay away to invest in a habitation, in a second residence, that makes you serve when you fly and, if you don't, put you to bed. And they happen to have either the occupier or the default. And you're dedicated to legislating against these families? Well, so your sabranel is a fan. But I don't come here to explain that they collect all kinds of property, because that's not true. And then – and I'm done, because I have one minute left – you've settled something that isn't fashionable now. And it is not fashionable because it is true that, of course, in an era of difficult political conflict in Catalonia, the agreement is not fashionable, and therefore everyone is dedicated to retreating who was able to agree to the decade of the eighty, to the decade of the norm. But you are the first government in Catalonia with a manifest inability to reach agreement and consensus. It's still for a congressman, because I don't know who... they're incapable of reaching agreements. This, of course, has nothing to do with the tradition of political Catalanism, of which you say they are heresies. They're the first government unable to come to terms. They can come up with a decree, the object of which is Covid, that more or less everyone can agree, but on the big questions, impossible. So don't tell me that things are going well, don't tell me that the legislature is a legislature, in short, satisfactory, because it's not true, because it's not legal, it's not regulated and the only one that's regulated is a real disaster, as I just explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. To make the answer, it's the Councilwoman's turn again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.231.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, look, since the year 1990 it's been a long time, because it's been 30 years, it's been 30 years, and I'd say this country has changed radically, too, right? I mean, it's a society, before I explained it... evolving societies, societies are modernized, we do it too, and governments, so they also do it and they have to adapt. And, therefore, compared to what happened in 1990 we can carry it in this 2020 because, I repeat, we are in a totally different society. But does he know what he hasn't changed? The fiscal deficit in Catalonia. We continue to paint a fiscal deficit, structural, that at these times..., despite the fact that at these times the Government of the Spanish State has decided to stop calculating it, no longer just to publish it, but to calculate it ; despite this, the structural fiscal deficit would be talking about 16,000_million euros, that if we had and disposed of them in Catalonia, we might be able to talk about another type of taxation for our citizens. But, sadly, this is not the case, public policies are evolving, the needs of our evolving society are evolving and, in this sense, public policies need to be resourced. And since our resources, therefore, do not come, we must look for other paths and sometimes this fiscal pressure, which we do not have to share necessarily, which we would like, in some cases, to be able to lower it, or to modify it, but at these times, taking into account the commitments and needs of our society, we need to equip ourselves with these resources in order to be able to deal with it and to guarantee a public policy of the highest quality, as the citizens of our country deserve. You keep insisting that it seems to you, with your speech, that this government is secret, so, that's it, isn't it? But what I can tell you is that this government thinks of a country key, thinks of a country key from the centrality, and above all, what we are planning is always a plural country model, a country model that thinks of progress, thinks of individual and collective freedom, thinks of modernity and social justice. These are the bases on which we build the policies that we develop as the government develops and due to the end. Miri, there's a point between all the public, that they want some, and all the private, that you want. And anyway, so, this model is the one of the concertation, and this is our model, this mixed model that allows – which allows – the different models of management in our home. And this government is for the public, but we're also for the concerted, and you don't make us sort between one thing and another, because this model of coexistence between public and private is a model of success, it's a model of guarantee and, moreover, it's a model very close to our Catalan society. Look, we can go in, but I don't think it fits, so, in the details of the laws that have been approved, that have not been approved, if this government has legislated enough, has not legislated enough or has not presented legislative initiatives to the public. I say to him that if we look at the figures I would say yes, that there have been many legislative initiatives that have developed and approved later through this Parliament, and that, therefore, this Government too, in this sense, legislatoring, and you know, has done its job, we have done our job. But as I said, perhaps these laws, these projects that we and the Government understand to be necessary and that this country requires, perhaps, therefore, to you do not like them and, obviously, we are in this case politically opposed, but this does not mean, I repeat, that we follow a government that is not for this modern society, just and equal, and therefore that responds to the model of country that we were to present to the citizen and citizens when we were to compete for the Catalan elections in September 2017. We are a government that fights and wants to shield concerted education, as well as public education, because we believe in a mixed education system, we believe, therefore, in this system, we believe in this balance, we believe in this reality of our country, that it is not only in the school environment, but in the health and other models that have historically also been traditional in our country, as is also the case with the Third Social Sector Table, in which we also bet and create a need for the development of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.232.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on industrial policy]] [[300-00284/12]] Let's move on to the next question, which is about industrial policy, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomera, Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.233.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs. We have decided to close this session period by asking you a question about industry, because we do not want everything, let us say, the debate that has been generated during these months, especially since the shutdown, or the Nissan shutdown process and the health and economic emergence that exists in our country, is lost after the summer and September we do not reconnect with a problem that we are dealing with, such as that of industry in Catalonia. Therefore, we understood that presenting this inquiry at the later session until September allowed us to have a clearer scene when we had to draw up the motion and discuss it. The first, let us say, is the degree of compliments of the National Pact for Industry this year, which was to be presented to Parliament before the end of the session period, but we also understand that, because of the situation, the calendars have danced, but that we will have more instruments to analyze the situation of the National Pact for Industry in Catalonia. And the second, of course, also, that which you have to see with the reconstruction plans, with the distribution of reconstruction funds and with the economic parties that we will have, that surely in September at least we will have the clearer parties and, therefore, we can discuss the presuppositional priorities in a more, let us say, more solid. And, therefore, we understood that it was of certain interest, even though during these two months a lot of industry has been discussed, to end this session period with an inquiry into industry. I believe that the first thing we had to ask ourselves is why we needed a National Pact for Industry in Catalonia, or why it was a good thing to set up a National Pact for Industry in Catalonia that made it easier for us, unlike the industrial management of the Ministry of Industry, at least two things: to have a concertation instrument, a space on which the political groups of this Parliament, the Government of Catalonia, the different employers of Catalonia and the different trade unions of Catalonia have common objectives in a concerted space, which they have to see, especially, with the defence of the fabric of production and the reindustrialisation of Catalonia. And that was part of it, but there was a second reason why we needed industrial policy to come out, to say the least, of the Department of Enterprise. And we need to activate inter-departmental policies. We need the Department of Territories to do things for the industrial development of Catalonia. We obviously need Energy to do things for the industrial development of Catalonia and that, therefore, different departments of the Generality are committed as well as the Government to boost their share of responsibility in the industrial policy of this country. And this is where I think they see more clearly the incompliments of the National Pact for Industry. Because if we talk about the degree of compliment, the other day it seems to me that in a commission – I couldn't watch it – they talked about more than a 90_per_cent compliment. Quantitatively, we could say that it is a very high compliment, but the National Pact for Industry provided a differential element. We had all the tasks already done by the Department of Enterprise, which are mostly those that have been complemented, but we also had strategic elements that are where the most incompliments are accumulated, and that are strategic for the development of industry in Catalonia, and that need an ambitious government where the different departments of the Generality are driven by transformation. We will not transform industry into this country without transforming the laws of this country and without pushing forward new laws and new public administrations. It is not a task that will make the industrial fabric for itself, but that requires new administrations and new legislation. And this is where we accumulate the incompliments that are harder for me, because they are the ones that make him feel strategic to the National Pact for Industry. It's a few, but we'll sum them up into strategic axes. In the field of economic transition, we accumulate incompliments which are obvious, and which do not only have to do with the premise, with the money available any year, but also have to do with having a government that drives legislation and transforms public administration in Catalonia, as it has compromised the National Pact for Industry. In the field of renewable energies, we have lost two years, that is, we have not sunk or sunk the targets, but neither do we have them. We have not activated lever policies capable of triggering transformations in the industrial sphere. We have not made a law of energy transition, and we have committed all of us, the Government in particular, which is who has to push it, when the National Pact for Industry was signed. And we think it's a phone element. The Icaen cannot direct the energy transition in this country, and is committed, the Government, to promoting the creation of the Agency of Energy of Catalonia, as an instrument and as the Public Administration of Energy Transition Governance in this country. And the National Pact for Industry and Industry was over, we have neither the Energy Transition Law nor the Catalonia Energy Agency, able to deploy an ambitious energy transition policy at the height not only of European objectives, but also at the height of the National Pact for Energy and Climate 2021-2030, but also at the height of the commitments made with the product fabric of that country and with the workers of that country through the National Pact for Industry. In energy efficiency, in electrification, we could say three-quarters of the same. They are strategic tools and they are strategic policies, which are precisely the ones that have made this National Pact for Industry a different thing from the government programs that have contained the different departments of Enterprise and the incompliments also accumulate. Another central element of the industry of our future, because we are not talking about transforming the industry simply because it is obvious that there are elements in the industry that do not function as they should, for example, in terms of resource use, recycling, etc., but because we live in a changing world where, if the industry is not transformed, what will happen is that it will become obsolete. The case of the circular economy is one element that is central to all industrial diagnoses and we share all the parliamentary groups of this chamber and we share the main employers and trade unions of this country, but we have not built any of the necessary tools to which we had agreed with the Government. We don't have a new residue bill. We have a law of residues that continues to raise the problem of the generation of residues in a linear way, that is, as a problem basically of handling scraps and whether they should end up in a mouthpiece or in an incinerator; and we do not have a law of residues that reconstructed the hierarchy of residues from reuse, reduction of residues, industrial ecodisseny strategies, etc. And we don't have the industrial symbiosis program in Catalonia, which allows us to close a circle of the economy; that what is left over for one industry is resources for another industry, and that needs tools. We need to push tools to reconnect all these areas of the economy. And, therefore, we find ourselves once again with shared diagnostics, but in this whole legislature we have neither promoted the basic necessary legislation nor promoted the necessary public administrations, such as the transformation of the Agency of Residues in the Agency of Resources of Catalonia or the program of industrial symbiosis so that this boosts the industrial transformation in our country. And they think they're phonenal elements. We've got a little bit of the same thing going on with transition 4.0. We thought it would be good to rethink Action to turn it into a 4.0 transformation agency. Whenever you have promoted policies– and we have also commented on the presuppositional debate..., it is obvious that the Pimes of this country have set of transformational policies 4.0, and that the presuppositional parties run out faster than expected, etc. And, therefore, we need new institutions, institutions and lever policies. I'll make you a series of proposals. We think we need three things. The first, which we still need, is the balance sheet of the National Pact for Industry. Therefore, the first question I will ask you will be the balance sheet of the National Industrial Pact and the balance sheet of the commitments entered into for the rest of the departments and for the conjunction of your Government comply with the National Industrial Pact. The second question, we will need this year, by 2021, 2022, a pact, an industrial recovery program in Catalonia, in order to avoid that..., since we have set ourselves the goal of reindustrializing, at least we do not back down, and therefore the ERTOs are not turning into acquiescences and a loss of industrial fabric, and this will require something more specific. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] a year or two – and, with that, I'm done. And, therefore, the second question that I will ask you is which are the priorities of your advice in the face of economic recovery.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.234.0	Congressman, thank you. Five minutes later, huh? I remember that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.235.0	I'm done. I'm just pointing it out, and I developed it later. We will need a plan, a more ambitious national pact, of ten years, linked to the objective of sustainable development and, above all, and especially to Catalonia, disconnected from the electoral cycles. I think the industry deserves a look a little longer than you plan...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.236.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.237.0	...of four years. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.238.0	To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.239.0	All right, thank you, President. Thank you, Members, Members. I am grateful that I have an interest in talking a little bit more about industrial policy, because we really share the concern to defend jobs, because these companies that as long as they are patenting the effects of the Covid we need to help them, not survive these months, but above all to remain competitive, to continue to maintain jobs and their positioning in this new economy of the 21st century. We clearly have to guarantee the future of the workers at these times passes to guarantee, help and facilitate the transformation of the business fabric into this industry of the 21st century. We take into account – and we understand, too, that it is necessary to do so – that this crisis, this transformation is not a Catalan phenomenon, it is a global phenomenon. I was talking to them a few days ago about the double offer we had, ending the traffic interruption, right? On markets like Asians, they're also breaking out of confinement, and he was talking about a double crisis in demand, right? , it is not generating demand, in the first place, for downsizing of the purchasing power, for changing consumption habits, and, obviously, because the Covid, this pandemic that still continues, has exponentially transformed the conditions of the context in which companies are to develop. Therefore, we are in the complexity of the moment, and I shall now refer to the concrete questions that you raised. And he said to me: "Perhaps Action is transformed. Look, I don't think we believe more things, that we transform the strategy. From Action we have devised all the new strategy that we will present recently. We designed it... we introduced it to March, but well, all aspects of the confinement will be later. But obviously, if someone takes into account that it is necessary to transform the industries I think it is precisely Action, that it is the agency that is recognized both its strategy and its ability to capture investments. What have we done in the meantime, what are we doing in the meantime? And now I'll talk to you about what you were talking about. So while we have to make direct help to businesses, which is like working with tied hands, because with 10.8 million direct help to Pimes and industrial micropimes, help linked to keeping busy, working places, with these moneys no matter what. They are aids that try, therefore, also analyze, from the point of view territorial, sectoral and preservation of places of work, a reinforcement for these enterprises that are passing so badly. And, obviously, as we say, this very complex context..., and we have the business fabric so atomized, so constituted by small and medium-sized enterprise, so diversified, so it's really hard to act with only 10_million euros. Look, the one that helps the industrial fabric – and in this sense, that's why we're changing the whole Action strategy – it's the ecosystem. Today you don't ask yourself at the time of catching investments – and I've told you many times – which help, which is also, or what are the labour costs; you ask yourself what the ecosystem is. We are clear that in this 21st century industry it is so essential to have the technology and research centres, the start-ups ecosystem, cluster policy, major events – why do we talk, for example, I don't know, the Mobile? , perhaps he is already one of the most sincere; today he was interviewing me with Mr Blackman, the CEO of this new line that will come, in the audiovisual sector–, as we connect events and the audiovisual sector, an industry that is also growing, that of video games, that of shows. Therefore, the gods: knowledge centers, clusters, start-ups, great events, obviously, the new technologies, adaptation to industry 4.0, all this is what it sets up, helps to grow this industry of the 21st century. Because of our traditional industrial policy, if we don't keep up with this whole ecosystem... And in this sense I think we're doing fine. Proof of this is the results... which we have in the positioning of start-ups, the recognition of cluster policy. Last week we had a deal for new years– you were pointing out now, therefore, that there must be agreements that it is perlonguin in time–, nine years the supercomputer – we are at the time of big data management–, the 5G will give us speed, but the supercomputer will give us the ability to manage in sectors such as pharmacy, medicine, environment. He also handled residue. Also many aspects of our lives. So, either we take care of all this ecosystem and infrastructure... And that's what we're doing so that we're in a good position in this new knowledge industry. What's wrong with us? So that the more than 620,000 businesses we have in Catalonia have difficulties to bid on this train from the new industry 4.0. That's what we saw last year and we created Proaction programs. What are these programs? So, if we take into account and see that more than 60 percent of the Catalan industrial fabric does not know and is not sensitive to all these changes that come from the technology, obviously, what we need to help is to sensitize them, to make them aware. Who can't act is who doesn't know he doesn't know. Sensitize them. The second phase of the program was diagnosis. Help. Because there are not enough teams in the industries that the expert has to determine that a company can help to be competitive in its strategy with the new technologies. And from here, they gave coupons of up to fourteen thousand euros to companies. So it came to about two thousand companies, but these helpers ran out in a week. So let's be the same again. We don't have a presupposition. We don't lack strategy, we don't have assumptions. And in this sense, I must admit you're right. We have a stronger stake in the productive economy and in the research that is linked to it. On the National Pact for Industry, the degree of implementation. We're at 92.5_per_cent of execution. You were commenting on that, too. We're on hold. I have to recognize him, I have to recognize him. In some areas, this pact, and in some departments, has not reached the acquiescence, therefore, that was expected. Admittedly, isn't it? , this lack of compliment as established; let's continue, despite this, working. On the ecosystem side, we are clear that when we say we want a productive, innovative, sustainable and world-wide economy, when we talk about sustainability – and here we also go into energy... Well, you pointed that out well, so you could separate the different departments, for example, from the company itself, right? : industry, commerce, tourism, energy. It's just that it's already going through a transversality. In this sense, I do not agree with some of the aspects you have commented on. At the level of energy transition, man, after a long time, after months, years of hope, I would say that when we approved the decree of renewables that allowed, therefore, that there was the proliferation of renewables I think we took a step. Because at the end of the day, the model there was from these priority development areas. And then what we've been working for is this energy we want net, democratized. And also, if we don't have this energy sufficiency, we won't have it in other areas either. Here we have worked on the subject of the ecological, energetic, environmental transition, let's say it as usual, but from the point of view of energy. Because we have the Energy Transition Law, which is one of the most involved laws, which has rejected more proposals, comments, and allegations. If it wasn't like that, we already did, so, come on in. He's hoping to have the eraser of this law in the next three months, all through this process so involved. We have done this, too, working on the ponència, both technical and political, as the Council Counsellor of Energy Transition, to whom we have informed, therefore, permanently. On the subject of the transformation of the agency, of the Icaen, into this agency, the name does not do the thing. We're making passes. But, as I said, we have it clear, and through the Consulting Council for the Energy Transition, therefore, that we are working there. What have we done? I believe that from here I would also aim at all the steps we have taken to decarbonize the industry. The band of – and I quote some now – 10_million more for Pla MOVES, 10_million more channeling the state's solar and photovoltaic power sources to industry. On this Coreco board – talking about the future, huh? , then, if in case I am more pleased, with all that we have been doing– 35_millions of support to the industry for self-generation loans in renewables, the creation of business offices to accompany energy transition, subsidies for the use of biomass or bioenergy, the impulse of energy communities to industrial polygons, energy diagnoses. In all this... there is a set of measures, as I said, of others that we have already adopted, 47_million in industrial energy efficiency. For the first time, last year we started working with this large amount of subsidies linked to the energy transition in the field of industry. And as time ran out, then we went on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.240.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply of the deputy, has now the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.241.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Counselor. Actually, I share so much of what you said during the intervention. I think he made an intervention, let's say, claiming a certain degree of compliment from the National Pact for Industry; a 92_per_cent is not a minor thing. But I think he also knows how to recognize, let's say, that there are incompliments that, more than quantitatively they may seem a little, an 8_per_cent, strategically there are many. Jo, on this second part, I'd try to get a little bit more concrete. I believe that there are many citizens and many workers in this country who are very concerned about the industry in the current situation in which we have it. Many workers are listening to us and are in a process of an ERTO dispatcher. Many workers are in a degree of job uncertainty of the future of their industrial sector. We know you already have a plan for the car, but who are the priorities for the industrial fabric and the business fabric for your department in order to reactivate itself productively? That is to say, I think it is obvious that we must have the objective, beyond how the health emergency goes, of fully reactivating our economy as soon as possible. And as soon as possible it is guaranteeing the health conditions of workers. Who are the priorities for you that you think the department needs? We are aware that you have boosted 4.0 transformation programs for the Pimes. We are aware that in this pandemic many companies have surely changed their way of organizing work, and that they have introduced telematic tools, and that some have to be planning to transform as well as commercialize part of their products or services, and that this is certainly on the table. And we'd like to know who your priorities are for. He was talking about the need for a national pact for industry to be more ambitious because I think it is already impossible to set up a national pact for industry that does not put ambitious elements of transformation on the table. That is to say, our industry will be unable to be the industry that is now, a significant industry in certain international sectors, an exporting industry in certain sectors, if it does not address profound transformations. It's like, digitizing and transforming an industry is a profound transformation for those who see it. The elements of energy transition and circular economy..., many times we talk about productive ecosystems, but it is also important to put on the table mechanisms that are usually called industrial symbiosis, that do not only bring in many cases competitiveness, but also interrelationship in the industrial fabric of our country. We need a law of polygons, we need an industrial symbiosis program, we need elements that allow companies to share resources in a situation where they can bring not only elements in a sustainability key, but also, surely, elements in a competitiveness key. And I said it and pointed it out – and I won't have, another time, much longer – that we have to make a national pact of longer duration, of a few years of duration. Now, let's not argue for the duration either, but we understand that we need something more than a national pact of a legislature. We have ambitious European objectives and sustainable development objectives. Many of them will need to schedule them in longer terms than four years. And we also need to disengage and build commitments with industry that wander beyond the length of a legislature in this Parliament. And we think that's important. Who are the priorities for you that a national pact should have for industry, the own national pact for industry, beyond this year or two years of economic recovery? And I share with you a question: we need legislative ambition. We need an obvious presupposition jump. We certainly need administrative changes. We need to transform public administration. And I, if you have to focus on something that you have not put on the table in your intervention and that I would like to ask for your opinion, because I know that there has been some discussion..., we believe that there is also a certain territorial involvement in the development of the National Pact for Industry. That it cannot only be a pact between social agents and a pact between departments of the same Government, but that it must be a pact, also between public administrations. And we need the involvement of local governments and parliaments. We are aware that this has sometimes been more complex to deliver the pact and reach agreement, but we believe that the future of the industry must be made a country pact with the involvement of all the administrations of Catalonia. And, therefore, I would also like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.242.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's a new word for the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.243.0	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Congressman. When they ask me what to prioritize, I think the first one we have to do is to take a lot of awareness of what is the context in which we have to move. The knowledge of which is our reality, the industrial reality, which characterizes our product fabric. If we say we have more than 95 per cent of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are much more internationalized and diversified, it is different from other regions, even European regions, where there are large brands, large multinationals, and very few sectors. Therefore, the first thing we have to do is be aware that it is necessary, to help all this small and medium-sized business, as I said before, to sensitize him. Sensitize him to the transformation he sees. So, very, very much information. There's a lot of disorientation. They're confounding, not just in the industrial sector, digitization with adoption..., or having a web page or digitizing according to what processes. No, the 4.0 industry transformation completely changes the relationship model between client, supplier and producer. How do we do that, all this? So through these tools like what we call Proaction to Industry 4.0, what it does is, have people go to businesses, sensitize them, help them and, working proactively as we are doing, what they are, above all, resources. First, accompanying, this, companies in innovation and digital transformation. Helping them internationalize the ecosystem, too. We say before the automotive sector, one of the big ones affected, one of the exits for companies linked to the automotive sector is internationalization to less mature markets. Also the cluster foment. Entire clusters like alliances that already surpass the ancient clusters. Currently the clusters define sectorally, and we have twenty-i-nou, from clusters, to Catalonia. If we take sectorally each cluster we will see that it is integrated by a lot of agents, not just a company. And then we help, too, and yet I don't seem to, with all that's after care, the cures after what foreign business investments are. Also helping a channel like what we've done a long time ago, which is Catalonia Industry Suppliers, Catalan industrial suppliers, only industrial, to give to know our ecosystem as well. And now we are helping, at such difficult times, so, all that is business that when they get to us..., sometimes we get to media or via a tweet: "This firm closes. How come he didn't help him? What we can't do is intervene, or, if we don't have knowledge of it, or two, if the company doesn't proactively target all of us. We're helping them try... according to the causes of this lockdown, right? , or because of the obsolescence of the product, or because there is displacement, because of issues of labor relations, because of the reason that follows. But do you ask me the question that you asked me: is it a national pact for the wider industry that contemplates the territorial element? Of all, the territorial element has to be contemplated. So we see, so we did it with an element that we were able, among other things, "to create this legislature, which was the National Covenant for the Knowledge Society. There's a specific eix, the eix 7, for the territorial vector. If we don't take care of it, if we don't integrate all the wealth and generation of industrial production from the territories, we're going to be a lot of balls. That's what I totally agree with you about. And we need a little more ambition, yeah. I don't know if the pact has to be five, six years ago, what it has to be is a powerful pact that doesn't just establish the diagnosis, that doesn't just establish who the remeis are, that sets the resources. This is where I think we've all been low, because when you have the diagnosis, you have the tool, but you don't have it, it's like a car that doesn't have gas, or now a car that doesn't have electricity. Very well designed that you are, you lack the energy to circulate, don't you? And this is the pact. Therefore, I believe that the strategy and knowledge we have from the Enterprise Department, and also from other government departments, is the correct one. We complete it with the full participation of socio-economic agents, Català Consell de l'Empresa, but also many others, the knowledge ecosystem, but here yes, we have resources and we have a firm stake on behalf of everyone. As I said, it's not just to preserve today's businesses, it's to ensure that they still exist and are competitive tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.244.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the activities of Catalonia in the productive economy linked to the sciences of life]] [[300-00286/12]] We turn to item 15 of the order of the day, which is the inquiry to the Government on the actions of Catalonia in the productive economy linked to the sciences of life, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And you have the word, to introduce you, Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.245.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. MPs, MPs. Counselor, we're living a few complicated months, I think we've all said it in this room, a situation that has brought us to an emergency at the limit, unprecedented. A very severe health impact, first by the name of victims, but obviously also by the impact it has generated in our day-to-day, both of health care and the normal development of our activity, both at social and economic levels. And we're patenting reboots, these days, we're patenting reboots, restrictive measures that have to be taken..., prove that we're still a long way from recovering a normality as we know it, which will surely be another. We're already talking about a completely different scene. Now more than ever I need to ask everyone caution, caution, and maximum responsibility to mitigate the maximum number of infections. It is also vital that the activity that had begun to recover does not return to a stock, that in many cases – we know traders, businesses, many diverse cultural activities – can be a stock of death. So we still have a lot of work to do. All these changes have come to stay and, therefore, we must begin to focus the strategies in a different way and adapted to the situation we are living in. If not, this stage has left us with an awareness that it represents the realm of salvation and the sciences of life. Because the salvation of a society went far beyond its health system, as we see, which is obviously the paler stick, but I think we are already going to a much broader concept. Let's talk about how to get to this healthy society, this society that pays attention to cures, prevention, innovations that make it possible to generate new drugs and new responses to health problems that we know or don't know yet. And, in fact, I think we could all come up with some thoughts, from the outset, that left us this crisis or that is leaving us. The first is the importance of having this robust, well-equipped, knowledge-based health system. And, in the second term, the need to base all the reactivation of social and economic activity in areas such as knowledge, digitalization. There has been talk today of sustainability criteria aligned with the SDGs, obviously, and all the environmental impact, which I think we need to have a very special cure. Actually, a lot of things have happened this week, and I'm referring to it. Even though we have been able to relive Kafkian episodes of judicialization of politics with our associates from the past Table to the TSJ, or today our spokesman to the Congress to the Supreme, this very week that we still see these episodes of vulnerability of all rights, we have also been able to see as we are above a pact of the European Union long awaited for everyone to mobilize a very large amount of money, both in grants and in loans, of €750,000_million. And yesterday, President Torra already announced to us the intention of these more than 31,000_million euros in the Economic Reactivation Plan developed for Coreco, of which you are also part, and we were also able to hear Vice President Aragonès, who insisted on the need to consolidate the 1_percent in the deficit objective. We're going to ask what we need because we can mobilize for this same year this 2,760_million euros. This plan details 145 actions grouped into twenty projects, but five large axes. Very important is the ecological transition, almost half of it, but very important is the knowledge society, which you have brought forward with the national pact; very important is digitisation, which has also reached the great challenge of the national platform for industry, and you have had it completed, and therefore we still need to invest more in this; a cross-cutting part, and the economy of life. Completely aligned, counsel. And from this I want to talk: 5,000_million euros to talk about the economy of life. We need to accompany our health system with a dynamic environment, in sectors that conform to the so-called life sciences. Pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, health products and devices, digital health. All these elements complement and give more strength to the health system, which, as I said before, is the paler stick because this is possible and to face possible onades that our country can have. Catalonia already has an important research ecosystem with first-level researchers and scientists. You've referred to it in this hemisphere many times, you've supported it many times. We have first level infrastructure. We talk about the supercomputer, we talk about the Alba synchro, the Biomedical Research Park, and we also have a dynamic environment like biotechnology and pharmacy. And all this in the camp of his competitions, counsel, to Enterprise and Knowledge. It's these areas where your task is, I dream of saying that it's been important in all this journey and it needs to continue to feel vital in this future and in this strategic change that you've set yourself. The follow-up to the consolidation of a powerful ecosystem of life sciences in Catalonia is especially important with this situation that we are living in, and we would certainly not be where we are if this pre-emptive work that has been done since his department was not done, I am not fully convinced. That's why we'd like you to have your vision, your skills, your support in this period, what is the situation of these sciences of life in Catalonia, this strategic future focused on this line. Knowing what his heart is in terms of entrepreneurs, workers, research centers, his importance as he works in the country, much more than this 5,000_million euros we want to invest, right? What's that really supposed to mean? The importance in capturing foreign investments, which also, yes, you have not spoken 1_million times, and, at the same time, who has been your paper, that of these life sciences, your paper, as you have also structured during these moments of the pandemic in which we know that we can certainly ask for projects, examples of projects or initiatives that have developed thanks to these contacts, with this know-how in the struggle of Covid-19. Counselor, you have always made a flag of the potential of public-private collaboration. We share it, and this is one of the circles that best sets it up and justifies it. This effort is also important on the part of the private sector in this line, and therefore this effort is also an complicity on the part of the Administration. Therefore, we must escape dogmatism and understand that the life sciences sector is one of the key sectors in this health emergency. I believe that this has given us a very clear picture and must therefore be one of the strategic axes for the future. And not only that, but if we want to have a knowledge society, it has to accompany all this strategic, it has to bring work of high value added. We talked about this, it came out in publications around the National Pact for Industry, and it has to help us bring together this alignment of all the helixes favoring a knowledge society with the healthcare network, with our universities and with the whole system of innovation and research in Catalonia. Without doubt, a great example of the agreements and collaborations that are being asked and that have left us this pandemic. For all intents and purposes, counsel, we ask you to update us on the situation of the sciences of life in Catalonia: what are your prospects, as you have seen, how you intend to focus on it, and to confirm to us whether this is indeed one of the strategic sectors that the Government has in mind for the revival and future of the country. As I say, more than the money we can put in. Miri, from Juntes to Catalunya, we recognize his profile as the councillor, the strategy he has served, his job as the key to making possible this mandate that is now very strategic for Catalonia, the councillor. Therefore, it will be a pleasure to listen to your arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.246.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Maria Ángels Chacón, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.247.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Deputies, deputies, the four of us who stay here today. And obviously, too, so, I add, don't I? , to the consciousness that we must all have, also, that immig from this patim context still many forms of repression. The ecosystem of the sciences of life in Catalonia what is it? The firm's consulting office is the nodreix of..., or tea two vectors that are to intersect each time more, which are: business and knowledge. And this sector, the science sector of life, I think is a clear example. We are clear, and I have said so many times, therefore, that the territories and the competitive enterprises in the future are the ones that generate knowledge. Therefore, we bet for this generation of knowledge. This is why the National Agreement for the Knowledge Society, because the knowledge that is not generated is to be bought out. And we've also seen this knowledge not only generate wealth, it helps us to be more competitive, but it also helps us save lives. Therefore, a double interest. The frivolous one, isn't it? ; well, frivolous, no, also necessary, generation of wealth and occupation, but also, above all, that of saving lives. And we're seeing it and we're painting it directly through what's going on in this pandemic. Therefore, as there is more relationship between business, universities, technological and research centres, vocational training, also, better. What is the ecosystem of life sciences in Catalonia? [[The counselor shows the chamber a full in which it reproduces a square.]] I think this is a square that... it's very small, not see it, now, huh? , of a full density– density– of all agents that integrate the ecosystem of the sciences of life in Catalonia. Pharmaceutical or biotechnological enterprises, health devices, digital health, start-ups, all enterprises and accelerators of enterprises in the life sciences sector, national and international risk capital foundations, universities, research centres, hospital research institutes, conferences that we already have here in Catalonia, like Mobile, in the area of Mobile. We have lots of them: clusters, associations of agencies. Maybe people don't know all this potential, and I appreciate it that you're doing it today, because it's an industry, it's also an industry, or it's a sector that goes through a lot of unnoticed, right? Everyone knows, therefore, the great producers in the automotive sector, but there is a great disconnection of five agents in these sciences of life. So, first of all, let them integrate, right? Because, in this word, one can lose a little. So what you have commented, these health products and devices, also biotechnology, pharmacy, e-health or digital health. And to put it on, where are we? So we have more than 1,000 companies– 1,060 companies–, 280 of which are biotechnological, 176 in technology medicine, 128 in digital health, 125 pharmaceuticals and 32 inversion entities, only in this sector. It groups more than 53,700 workers – gives us an idea of the size – and bill more than 17,800_million euros per year. This is a high percentage of GDP. Therefore, it is a very complete ecosystem, where, moreover, it is necessary to add more than eighty-nine research institutions. If we add to it now, too, then, nine windows of opportunity that come up, we see also one of very emerging, that is the silver economy or the great people. All the research, all the activity linked to the aging of the population, with more than five hundred companies already in Catalonia, only in the silver economy. Therefore, we have a lot of activities that allow us to make this part of one of the strategic sectors of our country. And one of the strong points we have is the ability to gather and generate, so, interaction between different areas of knowledge. Businesses, early gods, pharmacy and biotechnology, start-ups, universities, university hospitals, the CataloniaBio & HealthTech cluster, the mental health cluster, for example, is another important cluster. Surely when people think of clusters they do not know that there is a specific cluster in mental health, very and very important, through which, working with other clusters, therefore, solutions are found for important problems. Business angels, venture capital funds, too. All this, all this ecosystem, that we try to work from the consulting, and the fruit of all this work, I think that it also sees the great opportunity in this foreign investment capture that... We also have figures: the year, the period 2014-2018– we are finalizing the figures of the previous year, of the year 2019 – it's captured 383_million euros, it's 42_percent of the investment captured in this field in the Spanish State, and it's generated more than a thousand_cent places of work. They're going through a lot, I said before, to be a lot and a lot unknown, right? Therefore, in Western Europe, and also in the ranquing, the science sector of Catalan life is the third in the name of foreign investment projects, the desire in the volume of capital invested and the eighth in job places created. Therefore, a sector of the future, a sector in which we begin to be more and better positioned every time. And, in this sense, from the Enterprise Department we have also been able to count with the sector to realize initiatives like, for example, those of the Orfeu program, linking industry, research centers, universities to enable the realization of PCR texts. From Biocat, for example, more figures: Catalan initiatives were identified in the scope of the Covid – only in the scope of the Covid –, Catalan initiatives, solidary campaigns and more than one hundred and twenty clinical attacks in the race for the Covid vaccine. Therefore, we must also celebrate the commitment of a very large number of companies in this sector that have committed themselves, allies with agents, therefore, of this ecosystem that was previously mentioned, to try to find solutions at these very complicated times. Hipra's gyro pharmaceutical company has offered its facilities in hospitals for testing, Qiagen's biotechnological firm has incorporated its Covid virus detection device, or Rubio Laboratories have participated in two trials of the Clinical Hospital providing one of its medicines. And these are some of them, they're not the best known, but they also wanted to mention them, because the important thing is to understand that we need to value the dynamism, innovation and collaboration of this sector; the proactivity, the compromise of this sector, intangible elements that also help us position ourselves. And I said a little while ago: all this goes, moreover, boosted by the agreement we proposed last week of Barcelona Supercomputing. The government will contribute €59 million over the next few years; for the first time, a period, therefore, is also long enough, long enough; this allows us to guarantee a certain degree of stability for people who are carrying out search tasks, many times they have to work in precariousness, this allows us to have a greater degree of stability, right? Therefore, very happy and satisfied with this agreement, which will help this whole ecosystem. We also have Catalan reference companies that are the best known as Grifols, Esteve, Almirall, Ferrer, Uriach, many small and medium-sized companies that attach themselves to these references. Therefore, we are clear: business activity and knowledge have become more closely linked than ever before. We have a dynamic ecosystem, diverse, with a diversity of agents that also positions us internationally and, moreover, a compromised texture. Because the economy is there, but above all, because our lives are there, that we take care of this industrial sector, because we understand that they are beginning and playing an important role in which is the percentage of our GDP, of Catalan GDP, but above all – above all – they are believed to play an important role in preserving the quality and life of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-22-5802.248.0	Thank you, Counselor. I understand there's no reply... [[Pause.]] Therefore, if there are no more questions, we suspend the session until you sell them in the morning.
