ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.1.0	Well, good afternoon. MPs, MPs, call them quiet, please. Let's start the session. [[Condol demonstration for victims of the temporary Gloria]] Before starting the session, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express in the name of the chamber the most heartfelt condolences to the family members of the victims caused by the temporary Gloria last week. Also add to the pain for irreparable personal damage our solidarity with all people affected by the heavy material destruction. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Thus, I must inform you that, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, unfortunately the past 6 genera were murdered in Slugges de Llobregat two victims, for male violence, and on the 18th day of genera in Terrassa killed the third victim for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn these crimes and reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women, and to fight for its record. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I would also like to inform you that, in compliments to the establishment of the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, during the year 2019 1,318 people have died in the Mediterranean; since the beginning of this year 2020, there are sixty-three deaths and disappearances in the Mediterranean. For another band, I am guessing that, according to Rule 95 of the Rules, the deputy Maria Assumption Laïlla, with a long-running low motion, has delegated her vote to the deputy Antoni Castellà, of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Similarly, I inform you that, taking into account the writing of the Secretary General of Parliament, which they know because it has been distributed to all parliamentary groups and sub-groups, I would like to denounce that the Supreme Court and the Central Electoral Board have secreted the vote of President Torra, an unjustifiable fact that we have been working to reverse since the Parliament. Despite the manifest injustice of the decision of the Central Electoral Board, we must reconcile two interests: on one side, the defense of the presidency of Quim Torra and the fact that this situation can be reversed, and on the other side, the protection of the validity of the agreements that take this chamber. With the aim, therefore, of ensuring the validity and effectiveness of all votes adopted in plenary, we cannot today count your vote. The contrary would suppose Parliament's paralysis, because it would put at risk the legal certainty, the validity and the effectiveness of all the decisions adopted in the plenary. Parliament cannot give up being an effective tool in the service of the citizenry, but neither can it conform with an unjust decision, which we will work to reverse. Let's move on to the next point... [[Statement by the President of the Generality]] Say, President, yes. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.2.0	To speak at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.3.0	The President knows that this presidency of the Parliament defends his condition as President of the Generality. And, therefore, under this condition, you can intervene in the plenary when you consider it opportune, bearing in mind that precisely because of the fact that you are president of the Generality, you are turning a word to the rest of the groups. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.4.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Yes, I have asked for the word, as I am now aware of this fact, of which I had not been absolutely informed, nor have I been absolutely notified, and, as this House voted for the 4th generation by an absolute majority of the chamber that ratified me as a Member of Parliament and that qualified, in that resolution, that the majority of the Members of this Parliament voted..., and we qualified myself as a Member of the House; as well as the 10th generation of the Government and the three parliamentary groups also signed a resolution against the High Court and we – in the General Palace – also ratified me as a Member of Parliament, and these public informations that have been passed on the day of the Supreme Court and that we – in the General Palace – took note of the fact that I have not been notified, and that these public informations have been made available to me by the President of the Supreme Court, and that we have taken note that I have not been personally notified, and that I have not been notified, and that I have not been notified, that I have received any information from the President of the House of Parliament. In a democracy, if we consider it in a full sense, there can be nothing to do with the democratic and peaceful will of the citizenry, nothing. And when their own democratic institutions do not defend the democratic will expressed by their citizens as a result of irregularities, these own institutions are degraded and lose respect for the citizenry. I return to the vote of the 4th generation and return to the statement of the 10th generation to the Palau de la Generalitat. It's not a month. It does not make any of the two resolutions, of the two declarations. And my question is that if we allow an organ to be administered without competition and politics to pass and stand as a deputy at its convenience, and if we allow more to do so on the basis of a law designed for terrorists and corrupts, then let the very least that the President of the General does is to defend his honour and his rights. Why, of course, is the question that we ask ourselves, after fifteen days of that vote, and that I address to all the companies in this chamber: does it matter what we vote or what ends up being symbolic are the votes of this Parliament? Because yes, because the star and symbolic statements are over. And what the Parliament votes, then, is resolute or is it symbolic? Or is it that we then accept that an organ that administers us can question it? I have come to them repeatedly since I had the opportunity: this country must be governed under strict observance of the city's fundamental rights, all rights; freedom of expression, the first. And we remember why we find ourselves in this situation: for defending the freedom of our companies and the return of our exiles publicly, with a banner, yes, to the balcony of the Generality, because I thought it was my duty as president, to do so. And, therefore, I am here to defend freedom of expression, that this is the whole issue. And allow them to repeat it again, to the whole chamber. The independence of our country is only possible under three premises, all three must be completed now: the strength of the unit, do not allow repression to paralyze us and respect absolutely the popular will and the rights of our citizens. It's a sentence I've done for myself, by Josep Carner, but it's that for me, it's that the popular will goes before all else, it's that it's the first republican institution. Either we believe it or we don't believe it. But that's what it is. So we respect it or we don't respect it. And if we respect it, whatever it costs, we need the sacrifices we need; but it is impossible to achieve independence if we do not have the red line of respect for popular will. It has been discussed – you have just done so, President – about the questions that naturally concern us; the assumptions, all the questions that this country has, that we must bring forward, and that during all these months we have done. But what puts at risk the presumption and the continuity of the institutions is precisely the withdrawal of my condition as a Member. Today the door opens to unpack the institutions, the door opens that the electoral board, an administered organ, dismisses deputies, mayors, councillors, presidents, all those who make us. And that I think we can't afford. We cannot allow it to be the foundation of the question, I insist, is freedom of expression, is the rights and freedoms of our country. I've been in the service of Catalonia my whole life, and I'll stay there. I agreed to go to an electoral list and also to accept the proposal made to me by President Puigdemont to present my candidacy to the presidency of the Generality, always with the idea that all my political action was to serve to complete the mandate of the First of October and the process towards independence. And I have always said – whenever – that I would continue in charge unless I was censored – what was claimed by an opposition group, with an absolute weakness –; I have said every time I would continue while you see it possible. I've also often said that I have no desire for power. In change, I have all the ambition for my country, all the ambition for my country, free, where your rights and freedoms are respected. And if I claim the deputy's report that the repression of the Spanish State wants to usurp me irregularly, it's because it doesn't belong to me – it doesn't belong to me – but it belongs to the citizen who voted for the list on which I was included. And what I'm saying today would say for any of the deputies of any of your groups who are in the same situation as I am. Because I think there's enough to ignore the word of the citizens. I'm a deputy and president of Catalonia. And only the Pleth of this Parliament can change these two realities. We were going to vote for it on the 4th. What's the value of that vote, if not? The chief secretary general doesn't have the skills to do it, chief. And ask you expressly, President, that you guarantee my rights as a Member as publicly you have always done and specifically on the 10th day of your generation. I trust that this Parliament – and I appeal to all Members – will reverse this irregularity, this illegal fact, immediately. If this is not the case, the continuity of institutions will be at risk. Good afternoon. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.5.0	Thank you. In any case, as we have announced before, this speech by the President opens a return to parliamentary groups. Some group has asked me to do a little deed in order to prepare these interventions. Therefore, the five-minute proposal and we will continue with the interventions of the parliamentary groups, I say, I insist, that the intervention of the President-in-Office will come back. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The intervention time will be three minutes per group. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.6.0	Yes, well, first of all, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.7.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.8.0	Well, in order to express our rejection and our protest at an intervention, a speech that has been given to a person who is no longer a Member and who was therefore not responsible for intervening in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.9.0	Member of Parliament, I have already said before that President Torra we defend that he is president of the Generality at all effects, and this means that in relation to the Parliament of Catalonia and, in concrete terms, this House will be able to address it whenever it wants. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.10.0	Well, deputies, deputies, please, vagina occupying your respectful scons. As we have already commented before the end of the day, a round of words opened, through the intervention of the President of the Generalitat, the parliamentary groups will be able to position for three minutes each, after the intervention. We begin, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, for Mrs. Lorena Roldán. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.11.0	Yes; thank you, President. Former President Torra has not only had the defachability to come here to do another political rally, but above, then, he does not have the face to put himself here to listen to the answers. It is a real shame! [[Greetings.]] It's a real shame – it's a real shame. Those who speak of respect for this institution are the first to lack respect: a real shame. And here comes Mr. Torra..., today he came to tell us that he was not aware of all this resolution, that he learned today that he had been removed from the credentials. What, that Mr. Torra was not, when we from the opposition told him to remove the propaganda from the buildings that are from all Catalans? Wasn't Mr. Torra there? Didn't you find out that day? Did you not find out when the election board told him that he could commit a crime of disobedience? Wasn't Mr. Torra there, either, when the prosecution told him he was going to charge him if he didn't remove the Palau banner from the Generalitat? Was it not, Mr. Torra that day? On the day that Mr. Torra went to mock himself before justice, and to plead guilty, what happened, that he was not? Was it not, Mr. Torra, that you are now surprised by this resolution? But what did he expect? What were you waiting for? – What did they expect? Well, of course, when a person commits a crime, as Mr Torra has done, justice acts and has consequences. And this gentleman, today, is neither a Member of Parliament nor much less a President of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] It's a shame – it's a shame. He comes here today to teach democracy lessons. But what lessons of democracy, those who gave a blow, those who came here to trample on the rights and freedoms of Catalans? What lessons of democracy? Democracy also consists in complying with judicial decisions, and the one who does not is an authoritarian and totalitarian, such as Mr Torra. [[Greetings.]] Mr Torra also said, because he likes to come here as a victim, he said that they have applied a law which is intended for terrorists and for corrupt people. Yes, it is a law that is designed for terrorists, for corrupt people and for criminals such as Mr. Torra, because I insist that he is condemned for disobedience, for a crime against the public administration, for thinking that Catalan institutions are the yard of separatism, as has always happened here in Catalonia, which is already well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.12.0	Congresswoman, congresswoman, I call you to order for certain slanderous expressions that you already know you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.13.0	What words, president? What expressions? Because what President Torra said here has been a lot harder than what I'm saying now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.14.0	Mrs. Roldán, you've served slanderous expressions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.15.0	What expressions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.16.0	He said "offender to the President of the Generality, and that... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.17.0	Pardon me, a person convicted of justice is a criminal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.18.0	Deputy, deputy, I call you to order. If it continues, I'll have to call it to order once in a while.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.19.0	No, no, I'm sorry... look, Mr. Torrent, a person who's been tried and convicted for a criminal act is a criminal with all the letters. [[Greetings.]] A delinquent! Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.20.0	Congresswoman, I call the order a second time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.21.0	Yes, sir. They don't like it, the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.22.0	That's a record.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.23.0	She's a disgrace. [[Crits of "Crime! in a hemicicle sector.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.24.0	Cry to order. Mrs. Roldán. I call on the whole of your parliamentary group to order. I call on the whole parliamentary group to order. If they don't stop slandering me in this way, I will be forced to suspend the Ple. [[Crits of "Delict!" persist.]] Let's suspend the Ple.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.25.0	Let's resume the session. Congresswoman Roldán still has 30 seconds. In any case, and the result of the motive for which the Ple has been suspected, the warning that I have called him to order twice; a third, knows that under Article 238 of the Rules he should proceed to withdraw his word. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Roldán, you have the twist to the Faristol. [[Pause.]] Tell me, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.26.0	A point of order, President. Since you have called me to order twice, I ask you to tell me, or I ask you to tell me on the basis of what you have called me to order until twice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.27.0	Congresswoman, I don't think I'd want to, because you're not quite aware, but in any case, you slandered the President of the Generality from a gang. [[remorse of the voice]] And, on the other hand, it has been addressed in the terms that are not adequate in the institutional process that we usually– and should always– dispense the deputies of this chamber and, especially, with the presidency of the Generality. Mrs. Roldán, I won't give you the word again. In any case, you have these thirty-seconds, if you want to use them. Otherwise, we will move on to the next parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.28.0	Look, Mr Torrent, the same respect that you ask me for a person who is no longer a Member or President of the Generalitat, I also ask for myself, that I am a Member of this Chamber, and you just said that I have slandered a person. Therefore, I ask you for the same respect that you are asking for others, which you do not have. And stop trying to silence the opposition every time you say something here that you don't like, because your office as President of Parliament is for something else, it's to defend this institution, which you're not doing. I think it's a real shame what we've been living here today. Mr. Torra said that you came here to be in the service of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.29.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.30.0	Look, we have the highest poverty rate in the last fifteen years; we are the autonomous community with more dependent people waiting for help; we have the longest waiting lists in the state. That's neither defending Catalonia nor defending Catalans. I'll be sure once and for all if you have a little bit of dignity left, Mr. Torra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.31.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.32.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generality, democracy, in effect, is popular will, respect the popular will, but it is also empires of the law. And that is why our parliamentary group considers that you have lost your status as a Member, and also as President. Why? In the first place, because you disobeyed the electoral board in an election period consciously, publicly and publicly. The High Court of Justice of Catalonia sentenced him to disqualification proceedings and an appeal is pending before the Supreme Court. On the way, the electoral board decided that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia had to be executed immediately. You appealed to the Supreme Court to avoid it and the Supreme Court did not give you the reason. When an appeal is filed, it is not only accepting the criteria, the authority of the court, but then it has to adjust to the resolution it takes; but why did it make the appeal? And the board, after this decision of the Supreme Court, insisted on immediate execution. It is something that Parliament's Secretary General has done today with the aquiescence of the House of Commons. But this, from our point of view, is certainly not the most uplifting of today's session. The most important aspect of today's session is that we have found an insurmountable and deep division between the governing partners and believe, Mr President, that you are not on condition of continuing to rule. It's up to you to appreciate it. The competence to call elections is of the President of the Generality and we respect it, as we respect you as President. Certainly, those who take the President's view do not seem to have read the resolutions of the electoral board and the same Supreme Court, which even if you say that your condition as a Member could possibly be recovered. But this, president – and I use a certainly colloquial mass expression – can no longer stand it. The legislature is exhausted. The division between you prevents them from continuing to rule. We need to think about the country, think about our people's interests, rather than about personal or party interests. You, more than anyone else, are in a position to assess whether it is worth following in these conditions or it is worth returning to that popular will to which you used to appeal; to return to the citizen of Catalonia the decision on who should govern them in the proper period, which must take advantage – or not – of the possibility of an open dialogue at these times. You have the word. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú We can have the word Ms.Jéssica Albiach's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.34.0	Thank you, President. And, before I go in, I do want to say one thing: lords and lords of Ciutadans, they make shame. I have to say, you're a disgraceful fan. [[Greetings.]] The show we've seen before is a shame, and Parliament and Catalonia don't deserve it. And, say that... [[Pause.]] That said, today is a sad day, a sad new day for Parliament and our country. We have already said that we do not share the decision of the Central Electoral Board and believe that it is a mistake that the Supreme Court has not accepted the precautionary measures, because we believe that it generates an absurd, unjust and weak legal security situation. And, beyond whether Mr. Torra is a Member or not, it is clear that I still feel the President of the Generality as the same Members of Parliament have already said because, moreover, there is no firm condemnation, and nowhere does he say that he is not. And this has to be recognized despite being in the ideological ancestry, that's all. That's it. Now, despite the fact that the Supreme Court's decision seems unfair to us, I think it's not a good idea to take a path that can only lead to the blockage of Catalan institutions and, therefore, we should have the head cold to protect our institutions and, in particular, the Parliament, which is not really popular sovereignty. And, therefore, we have already asked in its moment, we have urged, after the table of the dialog..., we have proposed to agree, to agree an electoral calendar that allows us to escape from the judicial system. The best thing, in this case, is to defend the Catalan institutions and to defend democracy. And, for us, defending the Catalan institutions is not to be found today in the parany of the right; defending the Catalan institutions is not to insist on a path that does not take place; defending the Catalan institutions is that the President of the Generality does not delegate to the Supreme Court, which is one of his maximum powers, which is to dissolve this chamber and call elections, and defending the Catalan institutions is that this Government retains its word and guarantees the processing of the assumptions. It would be irresponsible, after so much effort to shield the public services of this country in the desperate situation that many of our country's services are found, to go to elections before, in a hasty and electoralistic way. We would not understand that the Junts for Catalonia sectors would use this attack against Parliament and the Presidency's institution to sabotage some assumptions, even though they are introducing a tax reform or social measures that we know they have accepted in contravention. I – to conclude, President – this legislature is clear that it is dying; from the first minute, in fact. What's going on is that every day it's going on and it's going on because of the government's manifest inability to manage, because of the lack of project and also because of the continuous barricades between government partners – today we haven't seen a new finding. Therefore, we ask you if you please do not make the ridiculous, that it is no more symbolic disobediences that do not carry us in place, that you end up with dignity as the president – because we recognize you that you are still the president – and that you make the government complete with your word and, therefore, approve these assumptions, and do not listen to those sectors of Junts for Catalonia that want to sabotage the assumptions. I, once approved...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.35.0	Congresswoman... Jessica Albiach Satorres ...we go to elections, because the decomposition of this government doesn't stand and Catalonia doesn't deserve it. I am convinced that if we do so, if we guarantee assumptions and then go to the elections the people of Catalonia will appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.36.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent cry is the turn of the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.37.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we see that the defence of the civil and political rights of the citizenry, of the men and women of our country, the defence of the democratic rights of the people of our country has been closely linked to defending the sovereignty and democracy of this Parliament. And this, today, this battle today is played defending the democratic rights of the deputy and president of the Generality, Quim Torra. Respect and guarantee of all their democratic rights. And that's what we're here to do, to ask this Parliament and to demand from the Bureau that in defending democracy and the civil and political rights of everyone, you start defending the democratic rights of the deputy and president, Quim Torra; starting to activate his right to vote electronically again so that you can fully exercise your rights as a deputy in this chamber. Look, this is the situation to which the Government has brought us, and this is the situation to which pragmatism has brought us: to repeat the day and day before the repression of the State and to arrive at the fact that the President of the Generality cannot vote in Parliament. I suppose, lords and lords of the government and of the parties that support it, that will have after the fight and will assume that it was an absolutely wrong way, that the only possible way, that the common sense of the independence movement and the democratic movement to defend the civil, political and social rights of everyone, is to plant face, generate the debate with the State, generate the democratic confrontation with the State to defend the rights of the people who have voted, of the people who have mobilized and of the people who still believe that these institutions can stand beside them and represent them. And today we have the opportunity and opportunity to show them that there is still hope and that there are still possibilities to win rights and win all rights – all rights – for everyone. We can reverse this situation and, if necessary, we, the members of the CUP, offer to form part of the Bureau of Parliament in order to guarantee and preserve the rights of everyone. Today we have the opportunity to reverse this situation. Reversing this situation, but not just today with a symbolic gesture. That from today this Parliament defends sovereignty, that this Parliament defends the civil and political rights of everyone, the social rights of everyone, disobeys, whenever possible, the institutions of the State and the repression of the State. This doesn't have to be a day's flower. This must be an act of perseverance that enters us into a new path of defense and to gain our freedom. We are willing and willing to do so. That this is not, please, a new electoral battle and a new trifling between parties. We don't want a new 30 gene – we don't want a new 30 gene. We want to start today a new way of fighting, a new way of democratic debate with the State...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.38.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.39.0	...and this happens, too, today, to defend the rights of Congressman Torra. And also, and I end up, President, with the same generosity that you've had with the rest of the groups, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.40.0	Exactly the same.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.41.0	...by the way. Today, too, this happens to set aside all the mechanisms and instruments the country has to bring forward, as well as the Assembly of Elects: thousands of elected officials from this country who will be willing to defend our institutions and our rights until their consequences. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.42.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.43.0	Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans: if defending rights and the sovereignty of Parliament is to be a criminal, we are also a criminal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.44.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, it is the turn of the deputy Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.45.0	Thank you very much, President. Was this really the separatist process? Seven years later, the cohabitation destroyed, the economy deteriorated, and in the end it was this. A clean knife fight between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya for power and nothing but power. Was this really the separatist process? It is true that they tried at first to break Spain. They didn't make it. But they're so destructive, so small, they had to destroy something. And you finally decided to destroy yourself. In a show of political cannibalism before which, if I were an independentist, I would be deeply ashamed, deeply overwhelmed. They have been cheating on their parish for seven years and systematically, and in the end it was all about the armchair! Seven years manipulating Catalan society, and it was all about the armchair. The important thing, reached this point, is no longer how many days or some week Mr. Torra may be wandering around here as the ghost of the opera or Gargamel. No, no, What is serious, what is really serious, what is really consubstantial to the conflict we are experiencing is that you have discredited the Catalan institutions as never before. They have degraded this Parliament as never before, to an unexpected and truly unbearable level. It is precisely for this reason, and at this serious time, that we must recognize, that we wanted to place from the Group of the People's Party to Catalan society, also those who have trusted the trileros who have systematically deceived them for seven years, so that they can again trust the real policy. We are going to commit ourselves to making real politics, uniting and not dividing, each from its own ideas. They will have been able to see this in the performance of this parliamentary group all this time, always respecting ideas, but always – always – close to the desires and concerns of the people, and always respecting the law democracy, and the laws, both Catalans and those of the rest of Spain. Not everything is lost in Catalonia. I'm sure of it. It is not all lost, and we will fight to regain peace, normality and democracy in Catalonia. Visca Catalunya! And live Spain! Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.46.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group is now the return of Mr Sergi Sabria.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.47.0	President... Many honorable President Torra, this is a general cause against independence, and we must not lose sight of it. Today's will is to liquidate the president, to liquidate the parliament, and to divide independence. I can't afford it. We don't have to allow it. We have an opportunity, an opportunity that we worked on during the weekend, and also today. An opportunity to defend the President, as you know, to defend the Parliament and to defend the Catalan institutions. And we don't give up, we want to keep trying. We will always – always – be at your side, President Torra. We all agree that the President must be a Member and that we are ahead of a new arbitrariness, but this is not the question now, but: if to give an answer to this absolutely unfair situation, we also deliver the Parliament. In this scene we are today before a decision that is absolutely crucial: to end the legislature with a new symbolic disobedience or to plant in front of the State shielding this Parliament. The col·lapse of the institutions or struggle for the rights of President Torra and protection of the Parliament of Catalonia. We cannot put at risk the sovereignty of Parliament, self-government and the legislature by decisions that do not, in the end, have a real effect, which do not resolve in any case the problem that we have today before us. If you bet another time for sterile disobedience, we'll give all the power to the State and play the game. What future does this legislature have if they can't pass the assumptions, if they can't pass the housing law, if they can't pass the aids for the last few days' damage? Do we want or do we not want to give an opportunity to the negotiating table? We must protect our institutions. To ensure that we can continue to rule to improve the living conditions of Catalan society, and we want to do so with the leadership of President Torra. We want the president to lead the government that will approve, by the end, after three years of prorogations, some assumptions for this country, and we cannot block this possibility ourselves. The country and its people need it. President: If we want independence, it's to delude us of a fallen state that attacks our rights and our fundamental freedoms. To acquit the republic we always act with intelligence, in the claus of the country, with the will of victory, and to do so we are not the rival, we are his ally. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.48.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.49.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Very honorable President Torra. First of all, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of all the Members of Parliament and of all the Members of Parliament, we want to demonstrate our scale and our support, we said the 4th generation and today I repeat: you are a Member of the Parliament of Catalonia and you are the President of the Generality of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] To defend the institutions of Catalans and Catalans is today to defend the minutes of the deputy of Mr Quim Torra, of the President of the Generality of Catalonia. Why don't we defend the Minutes of President Quim Torra, who assures us that he doesn't want to bring down the government afterwards? Don't you want to take the president down? What else is going to happen? That goes for democracy. This is about freedom. That's about sobriety. We saw it October 2017; we've seen it again throughout this legislature. They did not accept any of the sovereign decisions taken by the people of Catalonia. He did not accept the result of the elections of 21st December, preventing the investiture of the 30th generation of President Puigdemont. It did not allow the investiture of Jordi Sánchez. It was not allowed the investiture of the Jordi Turull, suspending a ple and putting it in prison; a ple which, obviously, we would remember for many years here, the Parliament of Catalonia. And now President Torra is not allowed to be a Member of Parliament. And then who will come? Who's next? And before that, shall we do nothing? And before that, do we submit to constitutional obedience? We have already said that we do not share this decision. We are on the united agreement of the 4th generation, which we also manifested to the Palau of the Generality on the 10th generation. We have all jointly tabled a motion for a resolution. Mr. President Torrent, you have an opportunity to regain the unity of independence. We've asked him now, too, to the register to call a table and a board of spokespersons. We ask you to suspend the plenary and we can find a solution to guarantee the rights of the deputy, Mr. President Torra, because they are the rights of the Catalans and Catalans, of the million Catalans who voted together for Catalonia. And a message to all these Catalans: Together for Catalonia, we from the U of October are very clear. We won't give up. We'll keep going. We're willing to hold on and resist and not give up. The U of October is going to be worth it. There have been many people who are paying consequences, who are still paying them and will still pay them. Tomorrow we have the political prisoners here. We have time, and we must have volunteered for politics, and we understand that there is enough political and legal space to find a solution. President Torrent, we ask you to suspend the plenary, to convene Bureau and Board of Spokespersons. You have an opportunity to regain the unity of independence. We've always been in the unit, and we've always been there. I've always said that when we go together we move forward. And we have to go together to continue persisting for one day to make possible the U of October mandate and win the freedom of all Catalans and all Catalans. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.50.0	In any case, announce that... I understand that the request of the Board of Spokesmen and Bureau was for the motion for a resolution that you have entered into the register. In any case, notify that he entered the register and was admitted by presidential act. Therefore, from this point of view there would not be a table for the motion for a resolution which, I insist, has been entered in the register in due course for the parliamentary group and admitted to be sent by act of presidency. [[Albert Batet i Canadell asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.51.0	President Torrent, I think our parliamentary group has been very explicit. We believe that the rights of Mr Torra, the President of the Generality, must be defended, because they are not only the rights of the million people who voted together for Catalonia, but also the rights of all the independent voters who allowed and facilitated the investiture of President Torra. We think you have the responsibility to find an opportunity. We have come up with a motion for a resolution that we already wanted to join the Bureau this morning. We're asking him for a doorman's meeting and a table to assess whether he can find out how the rights of Congressman Torra are guaranteed, that the plenary is suspended and that we can find this point of finding all independence to deal with this struggle with the State. And I think, therefore, it's the formal petition we're making and, therefore, we'd ask you to join us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.52.0	Yes, I insist, Mr. Batet, and in any case I also subtend to the conjunction..., of the consideration of the conjunction of the chamber. The Board of Spokesmen is, I understand, for this motion for a resolution that I insist on has been brought to trial and admitted by presidential act. So far, and at this moment, it is on the table at the disposal of the plenary of the Parliament. If the Spokesman's Board, precisely for this, has no sense, because it is already on the table of Members and parliamentary groups. Therefore, I would ask, and in any case I have also submitted to the assembly of Members and Members. It does not correspond to me, as you will understand, Mr Batet, reaching political agreements in the Parliament of Catalonia. If there is a majority position of the Chamber to make this Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau... I insist, bearing in mind that it has already been admitted to forward the motion for a resolution, which is pronounced by the groups. I do not agree with myself, I repeat, no political agreement with regard to the agreements that can be made to the Ple of the Parliament of Catalonia. It's got to be, anyway, the parliamentary groups, huh? More than, Mr. Batet, you want to assign a certain attribution, which I don't have. In any case, it must be the parliamentary groups that are manifestin. Yes, Mr. García. Why ask me the word, sir...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.53.0	Yes, for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.54.0	Thirty seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.55.0	I want to ask you, President, that the Bureau is meeting. He is not eligible, he is not eligible in any way, that you in an act of presidency can admit a motion for a resolution that has not passed to the Bureau. It can't be done. And you have to respect this institution very much. And you, today, with this and other expressions you've had towards the Citizen Group, you don't feel it. He's not feeling and having the right respect at the table. Therefore, I ask you to meet with the Bureau of Parliament because it is possible, at the Bureau of Parliament, to deal with why you have admitted, in an act of presidency, without asking the Bureau, in any way, this motion for a resolution. I ask you, President, if you please, to summon her. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.56.0	In any case, it seems that there is a majority, represented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and that of Ciutadans. Anyway, now we're gonna get the groups together... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. So, in any case, it has been asked by Mr García, I suppose that as a member of the parliamentary group, because it is the one who asks that it is possible to do Board of Spokesmen, he is not a deputy to individual title, but they know that legitimation is the parliamentary groups, that are two parliamentary groups or one_five_part of the Parliament. In any case, it has asked for one_five_part, more than one_five_part, yes; they represent the two parliamentary groups. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We will now talk to the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups and make the decision respecting the celebration of the Board of Speakers. Thank you. [[Marina Bravo Sobrino asks to speak.]] Say'm, Mrs. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.57.0	I believe that the Vice-President of the Bureau, as a member of the Bureau, has spoken, and what he has asked for is a Bureau, the Bureau meeting to talk about a motion for a resolution which has been accepted by the President without having met that Bureau. It has nothing to do with the other debate that had arisen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.58.0	All right. I'm insisting, we're talking to the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups now, and we're asking if the celebration of this House of Speakers is consensual.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.59.0	Well, let's take back the Ple. In any case, please inform us that, held a _table..., we have just held a _table to deal with a request for reconsideration, and also, as I said before, a motion for a resolution which has been admitted by act of the Presidency and which, in any case, is available to parliamentary groups. Mr. Batet, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.60.0	He wanted to reiterate Junts' request for Catalonia to suspend the Ple, to give an opportunity to find the unit of independence to face this situation of the rights of the deputy, President Torra. If that's not the case, I'm telling you, President, that we, today, the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, if President Torra can't vote, we won't vote either. We cannot whiten a situation without precedent to the history of the Parliament of Catalonia, and we cannot whiten a situation that we believe is not close. President Torra must be able to vote, he is a deputy, he has the rights and it is a matter of political will. There is political margin and there is legal margin, President, to be able to find a solution. We invite him again to suspend the Ple to find this position. And I would also like to remind you that at the point of the premises of Parliament and of the others, we will not participate in it and will not intervene in this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. In any case, as I said, we have made a..., we have spoken with parliamentary groups, with spokespersons; there was no partisan majority to suspend the plenary, so we continue. The next point of the order of the day... yes, Mrs. Sirvent, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.62.0	Well, look at the situation that's happening, and look at that there's no... – don't you feel? Yeah? – and bearing in mind that he did not agree and that including the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia has already expressed that he will not, or that he will not issue his vote, or that any of his deputies will issue his vote in this House, we would request the convening of a spokesman's meeting in order to clarify this situation and find some solution that can lead us to the exercise of the rights of all the deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.63.0	I insist, honourable Member, that I will not reiterate my respect for what I said a moment ago. We're still with the Ple. [[Parliament of Catalonia's presupposition project for 2020]] [[230-00004/12]] The first item on the agenda is the draft budget for the Parliament of Catalonia for 2020. I have therefore, and if that is not the case, the parliamentary groups that are expressing it, that there is a general agreement not to intervene in this point, and therefore to proceed directly to the vote. [[Pause.]] If it's not like that, then... Mr. Rodriguez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.64.0	No, Mr. President. I would ask that, as is traditional, the member of the Bureau who has the responsibility for the elaboration of the assumptions presented the proposal of assumptions to the chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.65.0	I have already said that some parliamentary groups and also the Member who presented the assumptions have declined to intervene and, therefore, if the parliamentary groups want to intervene, they will do so, and if not, we will proceed directly to the vote. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.66.0	Yes; President, we have not given up on this point. Therefore, we would ask to be able to intervene. And horse, all the groups...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.67.0	Come on, come on, come on, come on, Obviously, they're right. In any case, I insist on what the parliamentary groups have been talking about. But I repeat again, if there is any parliamentary group that wants to intervene, obviously, it is on its right. Therefore, forward, Mrs Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.68.0	Well, to justify our vote respect Parliament's premise, not the other point of the order of the day. We voted against Parliament's assumptions, so much in our talks with the vice-president of the Bureau as at the same meeting of the enlarged Bureau, because we do not believe that at these times the priority should be to push the subs of the Members and Members, and it is specifically and clearly for this point. We expressed it last year, and we also voted against the assumptions for this very reason, and therefore also for consistency this year. And, besides, this year we come from an intense negotiation of assumptions of the Generality, which is where we end up with the assumptions of the Parliament of Catalonia, and we are still more convinced. It is that, in view of the fact that it is difficult to get more out of the presupposition to give an answer to the essential needs of the citizenry, to public services, which, in parallel, we are pushing the sound of the Members and Members is unjustifiable. It is worthy of all labors, also to dignify the work of institutional politics, and that everyone, come from the social class that comes, can exercise it. But, frankly, we believe that this objective is already being met today, with the sense that we understand the Members and Members of this Parliament of Catalonia, and that the perception of citizenship certainly respects the utility of our work, given the CEO of the other day, they must think that we also cover sufficiently with our Members and Members. Therefore, before the urgent needs of other issues, before the reality of the self that we already cover the Members of this House, we do not believe that the priority of Parliament's premises for the year 2020 is to push the members of this House, and, before this point, because there is this point of a new increment of the under-members and deputies in Parliament's premises, we will vote against it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.69.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Albert Batet asks to speak.]] Mr. Batet?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.70.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...president, I have already said that we do not want to intervene at this point, but, as the Parliamentary Group of the CUP has asked for the Board of Spokesmen, I want to guess that we have entered the register of Parliament as well as the convening of a Spokesman's Board. Therefore, I understand that we will be two groups that call for the Board of Spokesmen so that we can suspend this plenary and therefore manage to convene it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. In any case, we were on the subject of assumptions. We will finish and vote on this point and then decide on respect. [[Maria Sirvent I write asking to speak.]] Miss Sirvent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.72.0	Yes, to position us respect the presuppositions of Parliament. Well, we would like to reiterate the contributions that we have made on various occasions, since we have representation in this chamber: first of all, we want to make it clear that the economic contribution to the parliamentary groups and to the unders and unders of the Members of Parliament for us are some unders that they are excessive and, therefore, regardless of the amount of money that is appropriate to this assumption, the unders already in themselves are excessive, we have repeatedly denounced it during all the exercises. Nor do we share the formula with which the subs of the deputies and the deputies are paid at tribute, because we think it's a trap, in this sense. For another group, this assumption does not only not question these extremes, but rather proposes, as has already been said, the rise of the sum of the deputies, and the sum of the majority of the workers in this country is much longer than that of the higher bodies and the higher levels and, by the way, the wage difference between the workers in the same Parliament is much worse. And we insist again on the need to set maximum and minimum topalls respect the salaries that the Administration manages. We have said this on various occasions with respect to the contracts of the external contracts of the same Parliament, in that it is not as much respect for this minimum wage as announced by the Government and, therefore, there are workers in this Parliament who are not so much paying these 1,200 euros. We see that there is a great deal of intent to preserve this Parliament in order to adopt social measures, but what we see is that this government has done absolutely the opposite and is following it, but this Parliament also does so under the assumption.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.73.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.74.0	Thank you, President. If I may, a preliminary question: are we debating only the premises of the Parliament or have there also the premises of the Syndicate of Greuges, the Union of Accounts and the Council of State Guarantees?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.75.0	As you know, it's two different points in the order of the day. Therefore, at this point is the debate on Parliament's draft assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.76.0	Therefore, I understand that after that it will be the debate of the others. Basically, it's like it's a ple that started 144 hours late, so I could position myself exactly. With regard to the assumptions of the Catalonian Parliament, I believe that they are actually worded. There have been groups that choose not to intervene; we prefer to intervene, to fill in what we think is substantial. Parliament's presuppositions were always generally approved on the basis of absenteeism. The last two years, Solidarity for Independence and even the whole Ciutadans Group, on some occasion, have abstained. After the abstentions went from the CUP band and in some circumstance from the Initiative band, but usually it was a subject that the majority of the Bureau dealt with in an absolutely ordinary way. Except this year, and that's not it. Except this year, and that's not it. And that's not because there are pacts between groups or between other groups or I don't know what. No, no, no. This is the fruit, this disagreement, of what we have experienced this very late, and of the same sting that exists between the two groups that support the Government of the Generality. This self-destructive sting is also in the Parliament of Catalonia, and for this reason the president included in the debate of an enlarged table some assumptions to which he does not support. And we come to a presupposition in the plenary, to which neither the same president gives support, nor the vice president who has prepared them and who brings them to vote nor the defenses, nor does it seem that they would not give them support. Therefore, we understand that this is their problem, not our problem. And in this sense, we will not support Parliament's proposal for assumptions, because, I insist, the problem is between you; do not complicate the rest of the chamber, do not complicate the rest of Catalan society with the problems between independenceists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. If there is no other intervention from other parliamentary groups, we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] We're calling it a vote. In any case, clarify that we will vote, first of all, on the draft assumptions of the Catalonian Parliament and then, with a_second debate and vote, on the rest of the assumptions of the bodies dependent on this institution. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The result was the following: no vote in favour, 16 against, 82 abstentions and 4 Members who have not voted. Therefore, the requirements of the Catalonian Parliament are not approved. And to add that in this recount of votes it should have been possible to account for the vote that has been secreted by the electoral board. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Presupposition projects of the Statutory Guarantee Board, the Union of Accounts and the Greuges Syndicate by 2020]] [[230-00003/12, 230-00005/12 and 230-00006/12]] Let's move on to the next point, we said, of the order of the day, which is the draft assumptions of the Board of Statutory Guarantees, the Union of Accounts and the Syndicate of Greuges by 2020. With the same dynamic that we have just done, if there is any parliamentary group that wants to intervene to ask for the word. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.78.0	Yeah. First of all, if there is something kidnapped here, it is the democracy and freedom of expression of the first opposition group. That's the first thing. [[Greetings.]] What happened to the President of the Generalitat simply happened to him is that, as convicted of an offence against the Administration, he has been temporarily disqualified and is now complying with the resolution of the electoral board by mandate of the Supreme. As for our position on the third point, the draft budget, we wanted to ask for a separate vote from the departure of the Greuges Synod. The syndic of heaviness, as everyone knows, already a year ago he should have left office and is also dirtying the institution with constant news; the last of them, which has been opened an investigation by the anti-corruption prosecutor's office for having traveled on a private jet to see a party, he and his daughter, invited by the plot of 3_per_cent, supposedly. Therefore, we, of course, as long as Mr Ribó remains at the head of the pelagic union, Ciutadans cannot support him in the budget line, and he asks from here that he cease to hold on to the post and leave the pelagic union. And nothing more, Mr. Torrent. But, please, I ask you, Mr. President, to be respectful of all Catalans and to be respectful of the rules that we all govern, because you demand from us obedience and when we speak and when we must shut up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.79.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.80.0	... but you do what you want and say that this gentleman's vote is abducted and what is under the effect of a court ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.81.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you no longer have the word. Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.82.0	I'm also asking you to join me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.83.0	...speaker.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.84.0	...to order. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.85.0	Anyway... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.86.0	Yes; also to express our petition that the assumptions of the Greuges Syndicate are voted separately from the Statutory Guarantee Board and the Union of Accounts. And the position seems to be: it seems to us that the syndic has already passed, not only his time of validity of the appointment, but also more I believe that he has also exceeded the red lines of the patience of many Catalans. In the margins of cases of alleged corruption in which you may have seen'simplified' – a state under judicial investigation; of other, therefore, surely they have remained in another order – but there is also a very widespread perception – and last week we saw the following example – that the Sindic de Greuges, the syndic who calls himself 'the people, has become the syndic of the Government, has become the syndic of the separatists. Our group is not in a position to vote in favour of the presupposition of the Greuges Synod. And we understand that its immediate replacement is essential and urgent to regain the credibility of the institution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-01-27-4801.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. So we will vote separately: in the first place the pressupost the Council of Statutory Guarantees, then the Union of Accounts and finally the Syndicate of Greuges. We vote, therefore, first on the presupposition of the Statutory Guarantee Board. The vote begins. This item on the agenda, therefore, was approved by 38 votes in favour, against, 61 abstentions and 4 Members or Members present who have not voted. Let us now vote on the budget of the Union of Accounts. The vote begins. The Presupposition of the Union of Accounts has been approved by 38 votes in favour, against, 61 abstentions and 4 Members or Members present who have not voted. And finally we vote on the presupposition of the Greuges Synod. The vote begins. In this case, the presupposition of the Synod of Greuges has not been approved; it has been rejected by 38 votes in favour, 40 against, 21 abstentions and 3 Members or Members present who have not voted. As we have discussed before, and after the votes, after the petition of a group and a parliamentary subgroup, we will now have a panel of spokespersons as requested. Thank you.
