ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's start the session. In the first place, I remember that the list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning to the gods, as shown in the second item of the order of the day of this session. Before proceeding, I comment on the possibility of altering the order of the day. In accordance with Article 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, and as requested by the Government, the following proposal was made to alter the order of the day, in such a way that points 7 and 14, relating to the Government's inquiry into the care of large people and the inquiry into the import of influenza prevention and other winter illnesses during the Covid-19 pandemic, could be exchanged between themselves, therefore, one step at the place of the other. Is there any inconvenience on the part of the chamber? Don't you? It can be approved, perfect. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Thus, and in compliment to what the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2020, there are 705 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. [[Communication from the Presidency of the Parliament to the House of Commons on the impossibility of proposing a candidate to be appointed President or President of the Generality]] [[201-00006/12]] The first item on the agenda is the communication from the Presidency of the Parliament to the House of Commons on the impossibility of proposing a candidate to be appointed President or President of the Generality. I will then proceed to read out the resolution I have issued and which will be published in the Official Butllet of Parliament, with today's date, making it known, in this way, the Ple of the House. The resolution says the following: "This Presidency, in accordance with Article 4.2 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and with the powers conferred on it by Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, once consulted the representatives of the parties and political groups with parliamentary representation, within the term of ten days after the resignation of the President of the Generality, finds that it has not been possible to propose to the Ple de la Cambra a candidate to be appointed President or President of the Generality. By means of this resolution, it gives account to the plenary of the Parliament of this circumstance to the effect of the calculation of the two-month period fixed for Articles 67.3 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and 4.7 of the aforementioned Law 13/2008. Palau del Parlament, October 21, 2020. Then, and in agreement with the consensus with the representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups, I will give them the word to intervene, if they wish, for a maximum of five minutes, in order to intervene from major to minor. Therefore, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Carrizosa begins. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.2.0	Thank you, Mr. President. We face an abrupt end of the legislature because we have had a president of the Generalitat disqualified for not respecting the democratic rules of the game, leaves a harmful inheritance with great social challenges pending, with waiting lists of health, with cuts in social spending not reversed, with increased waiting list in attention to dependence, etc.. But if we see ourselves engaged in an election, it is not because this singleness of the government ship was a disaster, but rather because the captain of the ship did not respect the laws of the sea, was dismissed for it and now the crew of the government ship is fighting each other to appoint a new captain and not to take the ship to good port. And today we have this statement in Parliament, accepted by all, which will serve to set the clock in motion and so that on 21 December, if no candidatures have been submitted – as seems to be expected – this chamber will be dissolved and elections will be held on 14 February. We welcome the fact that it was by consensus of all groups that we put the legislature into operation in this way. I would also like to make it clear in this House that if we consent to this being done in this way, it is because we understand that no candidature has indeed been submitted, not because they are not candidates who do not have the sufficient votes to prosper, since we believe that, if any candidature has been submitted, we should have held the plenary session to vote. What happens is that that instrumental way of putting the clock in motion seemed to us, if there was consensus of all the groups, if the president's statement was validated by all of us, to us seemed a consensual way and a better way out for this accidental legislature. The effect is the same as with an instrumental candidacy, only it is much cleaner because here we do have the consensus of all. Finally, Ciutadans will give the moderate and sensible alternative to rebuild Catalonia and folder the process. We are going to be, as you all know, dialogues in all those consensus measures that help vulnerable families, the self-reliant and those who are going through the worst of this pandemic. And at the same time we will stand firm against the rupturism and identity nationalism that has robbed us of a decade of progress and well-being. Today we see how the Parliament is used, the institution of the Parliament, for separatism again to pay tribute to separatist members, so that the separatist Bureau pays tribute to the former separatist members of the previous Bureau who were disqualified today for collaborating in the processing of the laws of the coup to democracy. We cannot follow Catalan policy in this way. If you want to do your celebrations, the separatist faction of Parliament, do it in the seats of your parties and do not use our institutions. Look, one important thing is that separatist parties are striving to make us believe that the future is written and that the only doubt of the next elections is whether or not they will take 51_per_cent of the votes. They're always thinking about half the population. And we say: the future is not written, most Catalans feel as Catalan as Spanish and European, and that one day will be reflected in a government that respects the feeling of most Catalans. And finally, insist on the need to rebuild Catalonia. We need more than ever moderation and reforms, not radicalism and rupture. We need to open a new stage of cooperation between Catalans, between us and the rest of the Spanish, and hence the importance of the elections to be held on 14 February. We can't afford another lost legislature. There's no time to waste. The health and economic crisis that we are suffering demands that we leave behind the instability and division of the process. We owe it to all the citizens of Catalonia. We are under an obligation to overcome the crisis among all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.3.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Albert Batet has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.4.0	Many honourable Speaker of Parliament, members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. In the first place, on behalf of all the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, if it is confirmed, we want to celebrate that it is done justice with the absolution of Major Trapero and the dome of the Department of Interior: the vallenc, secretaries general, César Puig; the Director of the Police, Mr. Pere Soler, and intend Laplana. And so we also want to express our support to the companion and deputy, Lluís Guinó, surely one of the best deputies of this Chamber who, together with the rest of the members of the previous Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia, in Lluís Corominas, the Anna Simó and Ramona Barrufet have been disqualified and condemned to guarantee the essence of democracy: to be able to speak in a Parliament. That's why today is a good day to say the clearest things: both feelings are in evidence, as international justice has already done, that the Supreme Court's trial was a political trial, that the Supreme Court's judgment was a political judgment, but how does it explain that for the same facts there are different convictions? How does it explain that for the same facts there are people who are in prison or exile and others who are only disabled or absolved? As explained by the arrest of Councillor Forn, or President Forcadell, or the exile of President Puigdemont? And today, with all the moral force that gives us the international sensations: to Germany, Belgium and Scotland, with all the moral force that gives us the sensations of the summit of the Mosso d'Esquadra or the Bureau of Parliament, as deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia democratically chosen for the majority of the citizenry, it is up to us to demand the immediate freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles. This is the same repression that has caused the Spanish State to disable President Torra. It is the same repression that has caused the President of the Generalitat to be disqualified for a banner demanding freedom. We have seen this repression over the last few years, the last three presidents of the Generalitat disqualified. We have seen that they have not paid for the outcome of October or of the 21st of September and have not allowed the different investments here to the Parliament of Catalonia of President Puigdemont, of Jordi Sánchez, of Jordi Turull and now disabling President Torra. We have seen how the majority of Parliaments have changed throughout the legislature and the seventy democratically elected Members have never been able to exercise their seventy votes fully. In fact, at Junts per Catalunya, nine Members could not finish the legislature, the result of this repression; nine Members of the thirty-four. And they're chasing more than 2,850 Catalans and Catalans for the October U. In the face of this situation, before the same action of the People's Party as the Socialist Party and We can in the face of the Spanish State, they see that the legislature has just begun the same way that it has: the inauguration of President Puigdemont has not been allowed, and now the President of the Generality has become disenfranchised. Together for Catalonia we are not complicit in this negligence and together for Catalonia we will not propose any other candidates, although we have the power to do so, so as not to launder this repression. We find ourselves before a totally negligent state. We are at risk of a 466-point rebound in Catalonia, with a pressure to assist CAPs and hospitals and a very difficult and worrying economic crisis. It is an absolute irresponsibility that, because of the repression, Catalonia has to face this second one with a government without president. Meanwhile, we will continue to work to save lives and save the economy, but we are convinced that the citizens will not pass through the ballot boxes of this irresponsibility of the Spanish State. I'm done. Before this demophobic and neglectful state that is failing, as it has already begun to recognize at international level, there is only one possible and plausible exit, which is the independence of Catalonia. If we want to survive with the people, with the country and with the birth, leave us no alternative to solvency and independence. From the Juntas for Catalonia we insist that the next elections are an opportunity for the whole of independence to conjure us, to strengthen us and overcome the 50_per_cent threshold to take those decisions that allow us to work, that allow us to move forward to achieve independence. I'm convinced we'll all be on the rise. Prepare yourselves; we are. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.5.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has the word. Come on, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.6.0	Good morning, President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. I can't start this intervention without referring to the feeling we've heard about a few of them, an attack on the foundations of this institution, a direct attack on parliamentarianism, democracy and freedom of expression; an attack that has now come up through the members of the Bureau at that time. Let me, therefore, send from here a very strong hug to Ramona Barrufet, to Lluís Guinó and to Anna Simó. I can't forget either Carme Forcadell. This unjust and anti-democratic feeling is even more aberrant of President Forcadell's conviction, which is in prison not for a few facts, but for who she was, but for everything she represented during this time. The same facts depending on whether you are one or the other can behave either eleven years of imprisonment or a disqualification. This is the perfect evidence of what the Spanish State is today and why it can only explain how a general cause against independence is. And finally I want to give a public thanks to all the members of that Bureau, but also to this one, for their struggle against censorship and for freedom of speech, and, especially, especially, to Carmel, who has maintained the dignity of this institution over attacks from a state from which we hope to flee as soon as possible. And today we are here with the time of some nine elections for another attack on the Spanish State, another attack on another Catalan institution, this time the most important: the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. President Torra's aberrant disenfranchisement has called the country in months of inter-initiation and an electoral period, now, it has already been defined. A more legal barbarity than can be looked at side by side, but it forms part of the general cause against a political project that is ours, that is the independenceist, that they intend to end through repression with the legitimate aspirations of a people that the only thing they want to do is to democratically decide their future. And they won't get it. I don't threaten, I don't want to talk, I want to talk, I want to talk, I want to talk, I want to talk, I want to talk, I want to talk, I want to talk, I want to talk to you, I want to talk to you, I want to talk to you, I want to talk to you, I want to talk to you, I want to talk to you, I want to talk to you, I want to talk to you, If we're not ourselves, they'll be our other reins, but this country has risen up and is moving inexorably towards its freedom. We won't stop, we won't stop, we won't give up. President Torra's disenfranchisement is a shame and a rescue that is getting worse for the moment and for the context in which the country is today. In any case, both of the groups that we support the Government and of the same Executive, we assume the situation with the utmost responsibility, leading as the coalition the country until the ballots allow us to form a new government, that the independentist and left-wing want, strongly and, doubtless, compromised with the Catalan Republic, so that we can continue with all the tools to the abst. You all know that the scenario where we are today wasn't our option, it wasn't the option because we put ourselves in order to minimize the interiency, reduce the temporaryity to the maximum. We would already be about to form a new government, strong and prepared to take on the challenge of the pandemic, but we ended up prioritizing the agreement, and we took full responsibility: as always, to put the country first, over private interests, over parties, and, obviously, we hope that in these months that everyone comes here will be able to do the same and work together until these elections arrive, because the virus... can emerge from this inhuman virus. Let me finish by pointing out a challenge that we all have, an opportunity that we need to take advantage of: we have the 50_per_cent threshold of votes in the abst, and that we all work together to overcome it, and it will not be a definite element, and who insinuates it, will deceive. But just as it is not a definite element, it is an essential element. We must conjure ourselves to prove, every time that there are ballot boxes, that our strength is every day—every day, every day—greater, because there is nothing that makes them more because the strength of the people, than the strength of the ballot boxes, than the strength of democracy. Left Republican had felt very lonely the last few months because it was the only formation that had completed its diagnosis of 2017 and had planned how to continue advancing towards the common goal, which is the independence of Catalonia, the Catalan Republic. To be more, prepare us better to return there and win; this is, in the end, the summary of our proposal. That each one of us has his or her own, that we consent and go out to take the initiative, that we have a lot of work and that we don't have a minute to lose. We don't want to be a minute more of an account in this state that attacks us every week to be who we are and to think what we think. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.8.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was the 29th generation that passed when President Torra declared this legislature exhausted, but at last it will not be until the next 14th February that Catalans and Catalans will be called to the polls after a long inter-initiation period. We were in favour of the election being called by President Torra himself. It was the logical consequence of his institutional declaration of February 29, and we were relieved at least two months of interinitiation. Neither did he want it, nor did the groups that supported him ask for it. Now, in the absence of investment and on the proposal of the President of Parliament, we have convinced ourselves to accept the doctrine of the equivalent act established for the Council of State, but never used until now. Perhaps we had to ask for the opinion of the Board of State Guarantees. But in any case, we accept the communication from the presidency of Parliament to set aside the watch that must be brought to us until the elections, because there is enough political consensus and because we limit the intermission that has been imposed on us. We will probably vote when the pandemic is not over, as they did before summer in the Basque Country and Galicia. We continue to offer the Government our support in the fight against the pandemic with the extended hand to agree on economic recovery and social reconstruction. It will be appropriate to prepare electoral arrangements well so that everyone can exercise the right to vote with compulsory health precautions. They also offer us to help guarantee it. If we want to rule, it is not to pass our responsibilities on to others or to seek excuses from a bad payer; we believe that things can be better done. That's why, and because we value our country, we also offer to work together while we're at the stand. I am convinced that Catalonia needs a change. Mass time of wrong priorities, political objectives that divide, time, energies and lost opportunities. The fight against the pandemic and its effects require the maximum collaboration between governments, the maximum political consensus, the involvement of all administrations. We want good management and good governance, claim and claim as much as anyone else, but derive responsibilities and constantly seek excuses to cover up inaction or mismanagement, never. We are in a crucial crisis, and Catalonia needs a strong and stable government to change course, to make things better, with clear priorities, dialogues and more extensive, because Catalans and Catalans don't deserve less. From the elections of the next 14th to February or the continuity of a divided government, without the full known route, compromised in a divided project and unable to negotiate the best reasonable and possible, or would follow a change of course as the Socialists and Units for Forward propose. It's the change I'm proposing. After losing a decade without success, I think it's worth exploring our dialogue paths, agreements and pragmatism. It is worth making a special effort of agreement between all Catalans and Catalans, seeking shared objectives based on respect for all opinions, respect for legality and respect for institutions. Above all, it is worth building a project that will cover everyone, ensuring that Catalans and Catalans have a good government capable of cooperating with local communities and the local world, with the Government of Spain and with European institutions. A government and a president can leave behind that divides us and puts us before that unites us: the fight against the pandemic, the impulse to economic recovery, the effort for social reconstruction and the constant search for harmony between all Catalans and a just agreement with the rest of the Spanish. All elections are important, but it has the effect that the elections of the next February 14th can mark a fall. We are on condition of correcting a drift that has not brought us good and we can resume the path of economic prosperity, social justice, economic and energy transition, feminism and territorial balance, with three priority areas: health, first; second, education, vocational training and university; and third, industry, research and innovation. I propose to make political agreement and social concertation the pillars of shared prosperity. Catalonia won when it was united. So, the propositions that we find the paths of the unit and the progress; the propositions that we leave between division and instability. This is the decision we're going to have to make between everyone and everyone on the next 14th of February. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.10.0	Thank you, President, and good morning to all of you. Before I began, I wanted, in my name and in the name of my parliamentary group, to send a hug to all the members of the previous Bureau of Parliament who have been disqualified, and obviously also to President Carme Forcadell. Saying that and already getting into the subject, it seems that by now we already have date for the elections in Catalonia, if the pandemic allows us. And I'm saying if the pandemic allows us, because I think we need to look at all the scenes and recognize that we don't know in what conditions and in what situation we'll find ourselves on the next 14th of February, and it can't happen to Catalonia that someone wants to vote and can't, so, how did the last election go, that I think we all took our hands off before a region can't vote. And that's why, as I say, I think it's important to predict all the scenes and make sure that there is a guarantee of the exercise of a fundamental right such as the right to vote, and that's why the first thing I want to do in this intervention is to ask you, President Torrent, to meet with the different parliamentary groups to set up measures, to look at what mechanisms we need, as I say, to ensure that this voting exercise will be guaranteed the next 14th of February, because beyond all the differences and discrepancies that we can have between ourselves, I am convinced that we will agree on one thing, and that it is that being confined, being infected, cannot be incompatible with participating and deciding which is the future of our country. So this was the first message I wanted to launch in this intervention. And he said that and in the short time I have, I just want to put in one more thought. And this reflection is that 2021 cannot be the year of a party or of a front, it must be the year of Catalonia; 2021_it must be a point of inflection that marks a year before and after, it must be the time at which we begin to raise the head as a country, it must be the time of common causes and cooperation; 2021_it must be the year of freedom, of economic recovery and also of fraternity; 2021 it must not be the year of split plebiscites, it must be the year of great agreements; 2021 it cannot be the year of freedom, of economic recovery and also of brotherhood; it must not be the year of useful policy and of self-government, and 2021 it cannot be the year of repetition of error, and it cannot be the year of being swallowed up again in symbolism; it must be the year of truth, of politics and of self-government, and 2021 it must not be the year of great agreements; 2021 it must not be the year of being swallowed up again in symbolism; it must be the year of the year of truth, of self-government, and self-government, and self-government, and self-government, and self-government. And here all the democratic forces we have to find, because we need it; we need it and the country needs it. Mirin, we have experienced a legislature, which has already been said a lot, a legislature that has been lost, where we have not advanced a single millimetre in national, social or economic land. It is true and must be recognized, the context is difficult, but it must also be said: the crumbs between the members of the government, therefore, have diverted the focus from that which was truly important, which are the needs and concerns of the citizenry. You've been two years and a half without a full route and without being clear where you want to take the country. And, finally, the legislature has ended, and we have already said more than once, in the worst possible way, that it has been with the disqualification of a president for a disproportionate sentence. But I also want to remember that this electoral advance was sung, it was announced many months ago by President Torra himself. And what was the motive? So there was no trust or loyalty between the partners. So don't let one thing go wrong, because the Supreme Court has done it wrong, that it doesn't go wrong either. And now we have a government in place, when crises are not in operation; we continue to have justice, the consequences of the judicialization of the People's Party's policy, the details of Convergence and Union, which left us with a system of salvation and public services, some of which have not been reversed in five years by the Republican Left, and now, in parallel, there has been a motion of censure in the Congress of Deputies on the part of a force of extreme right against a government of progressive coalition; a motion of censure that goes against feminism, ecology, Catalonia, freedom and the republic. And for this reason, before this situation, before those who seem to hate, we defend that hope must be sown; to sow hope and propose solutions should, in this context, be a democratic right. And I finish as I started, 2021_is to be the year of Catalonia; it can't be the year of either a party or a front, the year of Catalonia, and a moment when we start to raise the head as the country once and for all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.12.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Today we do not want to normalize this intervention. We don't want to do this with the feeling that we've met before, or with the general cause against the independence movement. There are already three thousand, or almost three thousand, people retaliated for having defended the rights of our people. This legislature has been marked by the constant interference of the State with the sovereignty of this Parliament: there can be no talk of failing the monarchy; there can be no talk of defending self-determination. It is true that this has caused us not to be able to promote certain policies, but also to work for a shared response, unity, at the national level, at the social level, but also at the anti-repression level. And we were pleased that the answer was different from that of a busy sea. which we're doing today, which is just intervening as if we're doing another job in this House. But when a state can only sustain with the strength of repression and not with the strength of reason, that state is demonstrable. And we have to keep this very much in front of us. We must have a lot in mind, because our project, the construction of a Catalan republic to serve the majority of the people and workers of this country, is each time a stronger project; a shared fate to an economic, social, ecological, health-care crisis. And, therefore, we have the obligation to be able to carry out this project; a project that is possible, with a determined population, willing to arrive until the last consequences, but it is a government that accompanies it. And this has not been a government that has accompanied the organized, mobilized and determined people; it has been a government more characterized by the bars and the partisan fists, by the distribution of falls and not to put on the table the responsibility that we have; a responsibility that is very great, and it is that this country must be the key, the bread that opens the doors to our transformative processes. And it's that the process of national construction and social transformation that we're defending is an alternative to the current state of things. And, look, if anything is utopian, it's to think that in the present state of things we'll have worthy lives guaranteed, that we can have lives worth being vicudes. And, therefore, today's radical solutions, changes, transformations are the most sensible – most sensible – response to this global crisis, a global crisis that will soon lead us to one of the worst economic crises we have experienced in our country. And there are answers. It is a political proposal that I am talking about public health, that I am talking specifically about research, education, sanitation, that I am talking about those needs that the people are putting at the center of the table and that this government is not listening to. We need to listen to people, we need to listen to those alternatives that are emerging from the country, that transformative economy, those that every day fight for public servants. And you, during this legislature, have represented absolutely the opposite; the opposite of what the popular will of our people wants. And, look, this proposal will draw us a path to social justice, it will draw us an alternative that today is more necessary than ever, and that is why we need to work, and we need to do it alongside all those who fight, organize, generate and weave alternatives to our country. We can't give them the scale. And you've done it for three years with these policies. We must immediately emerge from the free fall in which we have settled for these three years, and this proposal is an alternative and radically different from what his Government has represented for these last three years. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the parable of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Quickly. First, to move our compliance with the chosen system to run the clock, which does not require an instrumental investiture, which was sought, to unlock the situation. As a minimum – as a minimum – marks a calendar – marks a calendar – and avoids the institutional blockade that would have occurred in terms that were completely unknown and that would have left Catalan institutions in an absolutely unacceptable limbo. Now – now – I have to remember that the elections have not been called; in fact, they have not been called, in the past year, ever since the generation, which announced that the legislature was ‘finished. And the pandemic is not exactly the excuse, because the Basque Country and Galicia were called to the elections; then they were suspended, they were adjourned, and a new date was set. Here they have never been able to convoke, having led me to conclude that it is quite likely that those responsible for governing the fund have no intention of convoking the elections. In fact, I am convinced– and it is clear that I can make a mistake – that here, in the next two months, we will experience an investment intent on behalf of Junts for Catalonia, for so much that they say they will not do so – I am absolutely convinced; then perhaps the reality lies to me. And in these two months that remain, I am absolutely convinced – absolutely convinced – that, unfortunately, we will see some plenary that is not going to talk about the pandemic or the outcome of the economic crisis. I simply point out that, when I became a member of the legislature, so much if I finish two months ago, and it is the elections on February 14, as if it widens in one way or another, we maintain our commitment to dedicate ourselves and our soul to the struggle against the pandemic and the struggle against the economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. You finish the surgery, we'll do five minutes of time to wait for you in the morning to start the control session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.16.0	Well, deputies, deputies, I nail them to vagrant back to their respect for scons. We will now begin the second point of the order of the day, which is the questions with oral answer. Yes, deputies, deputies, please... [[Pause.]] [[Asks the Government about the measures taken to control the Covid-19]] [[310-00406/12]] The first question to the Government, to answer orally, is the measures taken to control the Covid-19. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.17.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. They will not find this parliamentary subgroup against measures that presuppose the containment of the Covid-19 outbreak. But, said that, knowing all of us last spring how we could have a rebound this late, it seemed to us to be embarrassing the shape or the way it missed the measures that were approved the past diverging in relation to bars and restaurants. There are no accompanying economic and social measures. It is leaving, this Government, to the intemperate autonomes and autonomes, self-exploited and self-exploited, and workers and workers on behalf of aliens in the sector, who will now go to the inescapable, practically already, ERTE and waiting if it proves or does not prove the unemployment benefit. And it's about the first of the collectives, the workers and the self-employed, which we would like to ask, and in relation to the measurements. He will advise, why, knowing that there could be a rebound, and I take this measure – that we are not against, we have already said –, it did not come accompanied by other measures such as – we have four examples – the suspension of the payment of the loguers – with regard to the fact that you announced yesterday a possible reduction of 50_per_cent from the moment you are communicated –; another measure, which could come from the hand of the suspension of the payment of deputy ministers, and what that supposes in the economies of bars and restaurants; a measure that could also be a loan for self-government and for self-government similar, and as at least, to which the workers and the workers have on account there, or, for example, to negotiate with the State a suspension of the mortgage payment? Why didn't this happen at the same time?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.18.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.19.0	All right. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... So, thanks, MP, in the first place, to pose at the expense of what is incumbent on us all and which forms part of the entire response of society to this situation; situation grows, where we double the positive data, where we double the positive percentage data, where all and all of us are conjure up to reduce this growth and have to affect the least not only people and society in general, but also economic and social activities where people play their part, so their daily pa. And that's important. That's why we and this government have been saying that we would accompany all these measures of a response to those hardships, therefore, faced with certain sectors. And, in this case, it's bars, restaurants and other areas where we proposed yesterday – and we explained it to them before the measures – that we would accompany them, that we didn't want anyone to be left behind from this answer. Yesterday we announced to the Government: 50_percent reduction that it has to be yes or yes automatic a time is this decree law; you help them to self-sustaining and pimes of 1,500_euros, that it is 40_millions that we have put in; and, moreover, we added the line of prestecs up to 15,000_euros for liquidity, that it is 20_millions more. Is that insufficient to mitigate the impact of this Covid? The impact of the Covid is huge, it will be huge, it will last a long time. And, therefore, this government will do what it will do to be working alongside the sectors to mitigate absolutely everything that is possible and fighting, also, before the State, because it assumes its responsibilities with the skills they have to give answer to who is going through it badly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.20.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the Member has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.21.0	Thank you, President. Look, counselor, we've asked him a series of questions, he's answered what we've already announced. But, above all, what we want to make clear, and in this we do agree, that we are not against at any time of measurement or of the measures that mean, in any case, to limit the rebounds. Actually, we want to ask him in another way. Bars and restaurants are not a focus from a substantial point of view of the Covid-19 sprouts. And you have some data that says, for example, that teaching for one band, and for another band the residences of great people, are the great focus of the Covid. And we want to ask him about that, too. With regard to teaching, you have announced a whole series of measures: group development, reduction of rates – in some cases, compliment of rates – that have not been completed. Will you advise, why aren't these measures that are essential in order to act in relation to Covid's resurgence coming to an end? And, also, in relation to the residences of large people, guarantee serological tests or PCR tests to workers and workers and to those people who have their home there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.22.0	Congressman, thank you. Your time's up. Counselor, to answer again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.23.0	All right. Thank you for the opportunity to clarify. Yes, to workers and workers of the fem residences and we do systematic PCR tests every fifteen, twenty days. Why? Not because they are a special focus, but because we know that when the virus enters the residences – and often it enters for those people who come and go from the community, who are the professionals themselves – it is very delicate. The virus is spreading and, more importantly, it causes stars to come out of the residencies. That's why, first priority. Next. I have never said that the schools are focused, as I have never said – I have never said – that bars and restaurants are focused. This isn't about the culprits of a certain place, it's about all of us being virus transmitters...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.24.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.25.0	...and we need to reduce social interaction.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.26.0	Counselor, thank you. [[Ask the Government about the health situation in Catalonia]] [[310-00397/12]] The next question is about the health situation in Catalonia and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Jorge Soler. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.27.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, a few minutes ago he personally shared concern with the Aragonese Lord respecting the current health situation in Catalonia. We all agree that the oneada, therefore, is already here and that we have hospitals, primary care, care services, therefore, already full of rubber to rubber. And in this sense, therefore, you know perfectly well that from the first day of the Citizens pandemic and my person we extended our hand to fight and improve the health system in everything you convinced. And in this sense, too, so July knows that we have offered you a specific monogram ple to treat the emergence of the coronavirus, especially to avoid getting to the late exactly as we arrived. We held this plenary at the end, in the last weeks, exactly two weeks ago. And we came to reconcile with all the groups, with this formation, not only all our measures, that also, and there were many, but thanks, therefore, to this consensus that we have achieved in Parliament, very many measures that were good to improve the health system, very many measures to improve, therefore, the salvation of the Catalans. The question is very concrete, Counselor. I imagine that you will have read carefully all that we have given in this Parliament and we would like to listen to you for your priority in these measures, what exactly – which you explained to us – from these groups, so you think you will finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.28.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.29.0	All right. Thank you very much, President. Well, luckily, we don't have to rely, either, on full monograms in order to be able to stand in the way. Since the month of May, June, we have been preparing what was called this "second wave, that no one had any certainty, obviously, of when it would arrive, but that we knew that this late could be complicated and, more importantly, it will take us at a time when not only the outbreak of influenza will arrive, and it will arrive this winter, but also all the lung diseases that are added at this time: bronchitis, bronchiolitis in children. Therefore, this puts us in a complex situation to complete a clear-cut objective, which is to combine the Covid activity, which certainly has not disappeared, but we certainly knew that it would increase at this time..., and to combine it to the maximum with the ordinary activity to stop doing the least of the activity. In fact, we have centers that are already operating, doing surgical interventions on the dissipation, because they made contingency plans where we say we have to do this business recovery plan, so they predicted that we could have another guess as to what we're going to see the next few weeks. That's why it's important to reduce tension in hospital centers. That today 80 percent of ICUs are full, those ICUs are already increasing to more than nine hundred beds, it's bad news, gives a tension and therefore puts us on maximum alert. And we need this implication. The planning was there. Here this Parliament has agreed on measures and we will take everything forward, all that is in our hands to put us on the road... – from weeks ago we are on the road – to put this situation on the road and to mitigate, above all, in the health system, this tense situation that we can come to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.30.0	Thank you, Counselor. Again, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.31.0	Counselor, it's a big deal, but I see that it's not just parliamentary resolutions again. He knows exactly what the parliamentary groups have proposed to him here. And that's a disgrace because you – I told you – are a counselor..., the advisor of waves in salvation: you have waves of the health system all over the place, waves of doctors, waves of resident doctors, waves of ambulance technicians... In short, you have not managed so much as to reconcile minimal measures for all of them, because it is full of contradictions. One week we hear her say they do discos and the night octopus, the next week she decides to shut it all down. People tell her you're improvising, because that's what the sector is saying. The workers are criticizing their lack of dialogue and this is unnegotiable, because they have not even been able to negotiate with them. The lack of cooperation between administrations with you at the front is flagrant, and all Catalans would agree that, in an epidemic situation like the present, which is all possible collaboration. Here you had parliamentary agreements and you didn't even get to read them or make a real and effective prioritization so you wouldn't get to the bottom of it as we're getting to your job...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.32.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. Counselor, to answer again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.33.0	Miri, Congressman, no one improvises here. First, because the health professionals and the sector do not improvise: neither do they put forward the tests of antiquities deployed to the whole of the primary and to the emergency hospitals, nor do they put on the march the pull and the self-sample without the involvement of the sector, nor do they put on the march the reinforcements and the programs of public health without having absolutely all the structures of the Department of Health active in order to be able to give-answer; nor are they put on the march these systematic tests to the residents, to the workers of the residences, nor is they put on the march the search of places with the joints, with a great collaboration with the joints, in order to make a campaign of vaccination of the influenza.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.34.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about compensation for the business sectors affected by the restrictions established to contain the new outbreak of the pandemic]] [[310-00402/12]] The next question is about compensation to the business sector affected by the restrictions established to contain the new outbreak of the pandemic. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Eva Granados. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.35.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the health authorities must approve the measures they consider appropriate to make a containment of the virus. In this, we have no doubt. My question is, what management have you done before the restrictions established in the sectors of restoration, and also of aesthetics? Who did you manage with the sectors before this shutdown took place? And I would also like to know what part of the total of EUR 3.225_million, which will arrive in Catalonia by 2020, of the Covid Fund, which has enabled the central government to deal with the pandemic, which is managed for its government, of these total EUR 3.225_million, how many will be allocated to these sectors – to restoration and aesthetics – and with what criteria will be distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.36.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word to the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.37.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I have had many meetings with different groups and even some of these people have my personal phone already before I was advised, so the contact is direct and successful, and in this sense, so the hand will follow at all times, so we can and the data allow it, the epidemic data allow it, we can reverse these tanks that we have been forced to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.38.0	Thank you, Counselor. Deputy, when you want to, another time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.39.0	Counselor, he hasn't returned me. Opposition and constructive opposition is also constructive criticism, in this case, of the Government, when it touches. And it's obvious that we're in an exceptional situation, but before we ban, before we lock, we can convince. As we say, health authorities have to do what they do, but with the same firmness as activity limitations, with the same strength, and at the same time, to approve sufficient compensation at bars, restaurants, aesthetic centres and all sectors affected. We carry many months of pandemic, and not everything can be heard at these heights. What the sectors tell us is that they can hear everything, but improvise, no. We ask for rectification, we ask for rectification before a lack of forecast, before a lack of planning, and also in the management capacity of your government. If decisions are taken that are harmful, they have the obligation to make decisions that make up their mind. If you make decisions that are harmful, you have the decision to make decisions that make up your mind. They don't make fun of people. I think you need to put order in your government, counselor. Leave your tweets and gather together with the representatives of the sectors, dialogue, do not seek excuses. They have a lot of resources, priority. Prioritizing resources, that's governing, and not sending cards. They have many skills and do not want to exercise them. There's no excuse for not acting and doing it when he plays. This government is always late, and that's why I go back to asking: how many of these 3,225_million coming from the state will be dedicated to compensating for the restoration and aesthetics sector? He didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.40.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I've got the word again for the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.41.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, look, the Bank of Spain, August 11th, if I wasn't wrong, published a report that came out to all the newspapers where it is recognized that the Spanish State was the..., that the central government, which collects all the taxes, was the country that had the least resources to recover the economy, huh? In terms of direct help, or in terms of tax breaks, Espanya was at the top of these lines. And in this sense, therefore, the Government of the Generality has the presumption that it has, has a presumption of 32,000_millions, consolidated, a large part of this expenditure conditioned on the payment of nominees, on the payment of masters, meths, infrastructure, current expenditure, and the margin of manoeuvre is small. Now, our intention is to exhaust all the assumptions, and these moneys that have arrived – which we certainly demanded many months ago, and which have arrived now – so our intention is to exhaust all of them, and not to leave a single one in the cove. And in this sense, so yesterday we approved measures of direct aid for 40_millions; of ICF credits, downstream, for 20_millions. This measure, inspired by the 50_per_cent loggers reduction envelope, and the idea is, therefore, power, if these measures are to be extended, to put as much money as we can on the table. But, look, I'll tell you something else: Catalonia's GDP, according to the Idescat, the year 2019, was about 250,000_million euros. If we have a medium tax pressure of 37_per_cent, Catalonia last year generated 100,000_million in taxes, most of which were collected for the Spanish government, which, moreover, has the capacity to issue debt and which is bought for the European Central Bank. So here's where you have the grenadier to put it all together, on the bright side, it's the central government. We've adjourned the hotel fee. Miri, 2019 we charged 72_million for the tourist tax, this year we announced it, in April and now in November. And that's what other European countries have done, and yesterday we injected these 40 million, as other countries have done. You're doing the same thing, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.42.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government what measures it will take for the business sectors affected by the Covid-19]] [[310-00403/12]] The following question about the measures to be taken for the business sector affected by Covid-19, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.43.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor Tremosa, deputies and deputies. We're on the second wave of the pandemic. Yesterday, the risk of resurgence was 466 points in Catalonia, the highest level of the pandemic. We also find that hospitals have tripled hospitalizations in only two days and the number of infections has increased by 87_per_cent across Europe. The virus advances to a speed of vertigo and forces governments, from here and from outside, to take decisions, drastic and painful measures, but necessary to save lives. We have seen how European countries have adopted measures seeking this balance between saving lives and saving the economy, expanding masks, decreeing curfews, the state of alarm, etc. And in the case of Catalonia, the government, although it has no president, it is also close to taking action. In this sense, therefore, we have seen the different measures that have been applied by the Government during these last few days, tough measures such as closing bars and restaurants and beauty centres. Undoubtedly, the restoration grid is the most damaged, bearing in mind that it has not yet recovered from the first wave lock. So, we've noticed an authentic dalta down with 44,000 pimes and autonomes, 12,000 of them that have their tank planned, 210,000 workers, who are affected by these establishments. Yesterday the government approved 40_million euros of direct aid to bars and restaurants and beauty centres, and also an important decree law, between the Department of Justice and the Department of Enterprise, so as to balance and that there can be a negotiation to reduce the price of the logger to 50_per_cent while this situation is so bad. We are aware of the Government's efforts to help the affected economic sectors, despite the fact that they have been through the State, which has always been late and ill. Now, we have to work harder to avoid the closure of businesses and to take those least harmful measures for the economy, because saving jobs is also saving lives. In this sense, counselor, we'd like to know what your appreciation for respect is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.44.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.45.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, look, you know that I like to read the Financial Times, so there is a British historian, who is said Niall Ferguson, who published an article said, a few months ago, said: "There are no more governments of banks or lefts, there are states that, with a good management of the crisis, it is legitimate in the eyes of their citizens, and there are states that, with a bad management of the crisis, it is illegitimate in the eyes of their citizens. I'll set you an example on the line the deputy was commenting on. On 6 April, the Financial Times published how it had managed Switzerland's mandatory activities, confinements. And she said, "There's been a web open on the locals, with a two-minute telematics transmission, they're already sending," I had to close the deal, I'm asking for state help, and at the top of thirty minutes I get an input into the account. This happens in Switzerland, published in the Financial Times on April 6th of this year. Well, then I'd like the Spanish State to assemble in Switzerland. And unfortunately, we still have a lot of workers who haven't even charged ERTOS, SEPE doesn't work as it should and, in this sense, so I'm not happy about this fact, because I know people who haven't collected this money, but the owner of this information. And the international press, which in the last few days has said many things about the prestige of the Spanish State and how it manages the economic crisis, so today we have this opportunity to compare what other countries are doing and we can also make a copy-paste of good practices, right? And so much good, so, the Spanish state gets better in that sense, doesn't it? We, in the Government of the Generality, as far as our presuppositional possibilities allow, we will do as much as possible, we are constantly connected with the sectors involved and these measures are critical. Yesterday we felt, therefore, representatives of property owners talking about that: "Home, this measure that the fire of ajorning 50_per_cent of the loggers harms us. And it's probably true, sure, but worse for a local owner that he's staying so close to the company and the logger disappears, isn't it? And in this sense, with the economic crisis, we don't care. Therefore, we, like the Government, will devote as much resources as possible, and with this I answer the honourable Member's previous question, so that the maximum support will be given to the affected agents, the affected companies, who have had to close because of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.46.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the business situation]] [[310-00398/12]] The next question is about the situation of businesses and the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr José María Cano. Forward
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.47.0	Mr Tremosa, you have been a month and a half as a Business Advisor and, to this day, I have serious doubts that you are aware that you are the highest representative of the Generalitat in the field of commerce, hospitality, tourism and industry, because, in the end, you do not act as such. I do not think it is clear at all that at that time its priority should be to accompany and protect workers, self-employed and SMEs. And I would have to do it precisely to save jobs. Some families, some self-employed and some SMEs who are going through a real calvary in solitude, because they have closed their businesses. They have been forced to close the blind, despite all their efforts to keep the Covid-19 away from their establishments. And they feel totally abandoned by this government. Mr Tremosa, explain to us what economic contingency plan you have for a situation like this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.48.0	To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Enterprise and Coneixement, Mr. Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.49.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, our strategy is to defend the peppers and hold them as long as possible. Therefore, the objective is to reach the spring that you see, we hope that it will be possible to have, for example, quick, reliable and cheap texts that allow us to normalize many fields of activity, already fill planes, fill wires and congresses, fill restaurants, fill cinemas and theaters.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.50.0	Thank you, Counselor. Deputy, again, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.51.0	Mr. Tremosa, thinking about next spring is thinking about the elections, as you are doing. In short, he neither had nor had any contingency plans. And what's more serious, neither do you nor this government. Imagine the degree of uncertainty that they are generating in Catalans when in days they have passed from announcing the reopening of night entertainment to closing bars and restaurants. And they've done it without any kind of planning. They have done so without showing sensitivity to the affected sectors, without warning them, without counting on them. They have, moreover, with nocturnalness, filtered the news on Tuesday night, so many autonomouss could not sleep because of the anxiety that causes them to think that they can close everything and see themselves forced to close the blind. And they didn't publish the decree until one in the morning the next day, keeping thousands of Catalan families in town. And what is more serious if it is possible, they have done so without accompanying the sectors concerned. They put on the table the ridiculous amount of 40_million_of_euros when the sector expects to lose 800_million_of_euros in the next fifteen days, twenty times more. And in their desire to despise everything that sounds like Spain they have not been able to coordinate with the Government of Spain, when it is essential for the strategy to be joint and to be able to accompany the autonomous and SMEs instead of leaving them at the stand. Mr. Tremosa, what I just gave you is data, data that you have hundreds of Catalan families with their hearts in a fist, so please do some self-criticism and assume that you have been distracted too long from what really matters to the citizens of Catalonia. Tell us, Mr. Tremosa, what is that so important that you have been doing this past month and a half that has prevented you from even talking to the sectors affected by the closures decreed by the Government? And one more thing, as the government has no right to abandon the hospitality sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.52.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. There's the word, again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.53.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr MP, look, the night-time sector looks if we had to think that we would make sure that, to the very least that epidemiological data seemed to be evolving, we already made contact with them, and, obviously, through the competent health authority, so that we could re-open closed activities, and this will be our will. And in this sense our strategy is the same with the other sectors that have unfortunately happened, as in other places in Europe, too..., look what happens in France, what happens in Belgium, what happens in Holland, what happens in Germany. In other places, unfortunately, the health crisis is more pressing than they want. In Navarre, for example, there was a confinement of the region and the president of Navarre said: "So long as we do not go any further, but if the epidemic continues to advance, we will have to lock people at home. And in this sense, if you look at my agenda, you will see that, from meetings, I have not done many, and if anything I have done has been meeting, and you can talk to the restaurant staff, you can talk to the night staff, many of whom have my phone and with whom we are in daily contact. And in this sense, that's what you can prove, you can talk to them about whether or not the ram counselor is over work, and that's what I can tell them the activity will be there. Would yesterday's measures please us if they were more money? Yeah. But, for example, the Generality does not have the capacity to issue a debt because a government of the People's Party took it out, and "the most progressive friendly government of the history we have now in Spain has not reconsidered it, but we hope that you will reconsider it, because this to the autonomous communities would give us a margin of activity. President Tora asked here in June that the Spanish State ask for the MEDE for autonomy and now we would have 25,000_million for all autonomous communities, about four or five thousand in Catalonia. It hasn't happened, we can't put any more money on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.54.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about presuppostary resources to support the most affected sectors of the economy for the pandemic]] [[310-00400/12]] The next question is about the budgetary resources intended to give support to the economic sectors most affected by the pandemic, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.55.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, we come from the record of how different Spanish governments have faced the latest, mostly economic, crises of many years ago. Remember Zapatero, who made a turn of one hundred and forty degrees and embraced austerity with the answer. Remember, too, when the PP was with Montoro, that he very skilfully decided that who was to assume the most restricted deficit target were the autonomous communities by scanning them even more. And the presidents change, but the fund doesn't. The government of Sánchez-Iglesias's stellar measure was to re-centralize the Romanesque communities and provide them with the convenience to recommit the institutions of proximity to making strenuous efforts at survival, because the only margin with this style of political action is survival. This time, however, the common sense and rebellion of municipal entities made such a brilliant proposal fall. Mass often in times of crisis the PSOE moves away from the transformative left and becomes the backbone of the status quo. Now, with a new member of the government, but it has to be recognized that you can't turn state public policies into the meaning of the many requests we listen to in the mouth of the commons when the complaint is here, to the generality. We can't afford past errors today. We know what didn't work, and we also know we don't share those receipts. In a colloquial way, which has the money is Madrid, which collects taxes and distributes it is Madrid, and which decides its redistribution is Madrid. One given: Catalonia only collects 5_per_cent of taxes. Despite all this, every euro is expressed from Catalonia, and it does so with political content in its decisions and does not attach itself to its responsibilities even though they are hard and difficult to take, as we saw last week. Decisions that can also say that we are closer to Europe than to Spain once we see how the different states face the pandemic. We do, however, want this government to accompany us, to generate agile procedures, to help us clearly in times of difficulty and to accompany the sectors affected. In short, work for a more just and fairer country, with measures such as the courage to re-adjust the loguers, to know that we redistribute these costs, for one thing, the Administration, that we all contribute with our assumptions, the companies and the loguers. President, how do we face this leadership?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.56.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.57.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Let's start, before we go into detailing the economic measures that the government is pushing in this week of exceptionality, to manifest on behalf of the government two messages. In the first place, support to the Bureau of Parliament, to the members of the Bureau of Parliament who have been sentenced this week for the High Court of Justice of Catalonia to allow parliamentary debates. All our support and our commitment to working with the Government of Catalonia because this chamber follows the free expression of the will of the citizens of Catalonia. And, second of all, this morning, it was confirmed that Major Trapero was acquitted, that Laplana and Mr. César Puig and Mr. Pere Soler heard of the charges that they felt. We congratulate them, we express our support, we express our joy so that we can overcome this situation. We also show our indignation at all the pain he has caused and our indignation because the question is obvious: what does Councilman Forn do in prison? In the same way that the question is obvious, it respects Parliament's view: what does President Forcadell do to the prison, what do political prisoners do to the prison, when the general cause against independence is being dismantled? Therefore, we will continue to denounce him. And we will also continue to work with economic measures, because we are very clear that we will get out of this crisis precisely with a totally inverse reception to the decisions that were made in the previous crisis. They need expansionary policies. Also when they are completed and are completed, due to the health situation, measures that involve impact in various activities. Yesterday we adopted measures to help the sectors affected by last week's activity limitations. These sectors, which are faced with various costs, can be coupled with measures that are already on the march, in the area of temporary employment regulation shippers, for which it ensures, therefore, wages to workers and workers, and it also relieves itself of its share of the enterprise. It is also important the fixed costs of logging; for this reason it was approved yesterday this decree which will allow this reduction of the costs of logging. But they know there's not enough. And therefore, for fifteen days, with measures lasting fifteen days, we have put on the table direct aids of 40_million euros. Beyond the transversals. During the state of alarm, many activities were restricted, cross-cutting measures were carried out, but there were sectors that had their activity totally suspended, and there were no measures on the part of the Spanish Government during the nineties of the state of alarm, concrete measures, directed to specific sectors. We've been doing this for 15 days. And if we have to expand, we'll expand, because we'll be next to people, because we know we'll get out of this situation among all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.58.0	Vice President... thank you. [[Ask the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the statements of Dr Oriol Mitjà regarding the government's capacity to manage the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[317-00232/12]] The next question is about the political situation. And it is formulated by Mr Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.59.0	Yes, thank you. Mr Aragonès, how do you appreciate Mr Oriol Mitjà's assertions about the training of the government he presides? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.60.0	To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.61.0	I remind you again that I do not preside, that there is no president, that he has been unjustly disqualified, and that we will remember the times that you need. There is no president, but the government continues. And the government trusts all of its members and, above all, its teams. And we're always going to apply the measures in accordance with what the Health Department experts recommend to us and also the scientific experts who accompany us. I believe that all governments that have responsibilities like ours should follow this scientific criterion. You have party partners to whom you could also make this recommendation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.62.0	Thank you, Vice President. I've got the word the deputy again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.63.0	Thank you so much. His responsibilities as President-in-Office are now essentially two: firstly, to protect the health of Catalans, and secondly, to protect the economy and to promote it in a particularly difficult situation. On the first question, I am not an expert in health management, and I am very cautious – I have been these months – in giving lessons to anyone on the question, so I prefer to quote the expert of prestige whom you yourself signed up, Mr Oriol Mitjà, who has said and accuses you in textually of a lack of humility, of not listening to the professionals and of such a level of incompetence that you deserve to lose your job in the next elections. That's what the expert says you signed up for; what the others won't say. On the second question, you have decided to complete the closure of the restoration, without sufficient support measures, which could lead to an irreversible situation of closure in a key sector in our economy. But they are also focusing on this sector in particular all the responsibility for the fight against the Covid, which is tremendously unfair. And the worst of it all is that it's not working properly. And why isn't it working? Because what is the point of a total closure when a part of the leisure, the most irresponsible, moves to camping without any kind of health control, and another part, this legitimately, is crowded the restaurants of Peñíscola, of Aragon, of Andorra, of the south of France? What's the point? Correct and listen to the sector, Mr Aragonès; lift the total closure and, if necessary, decree a night closure. Of course I do. Clear rules, strict measures, severe fines, if necessary, for non-compliance. Think of the example of France. In France they are very clear, they know what to do, they know that at nine they have to close, but at least they are not forced to an absolute closure as here in Catalonia that could end up bringing thousands of families to the most absolute misery. Correct, Mr Aragonès, not because I ask you, that's the least, is that health specialists ask you, economic sectors ask you, everyone asks you. Correct, Mr. Aragonès. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.64.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's a new word from the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.65.0	The measure that is close to limitation on the part of the activity of bars and restaurants, and to limit it to the collection to the establishment, the anonymous take away, or, therefore, that is to say, that it is carried the food at home, is not a measure that lacks a political criterion, it is a measure that lacks the recommendations of the field of public salvation, that is consensual with the experts, and that I recommend that I look at what experts have commented on in the field of epidemiology respect this measure, that they have endorsed it and that has consented to it, that it has economic consequences that we have to comply with, but the measure has consent. You're asking me to dispense with the scientific and health advice at the time of making decisions about how to fight the pandemic. Miri, listen'm, to learn from Donald Trump in this Parliament..., I, the truth, do not want to devote more time to it. Where we have to devote time and where we are devoting time is, obviously, to fighting the health situation, and to doing so by putting all the preventive areas: reinforcement of the primary, increase of PCRs. We have also detected a very significant increase in positive cases. And, therefore, also all the measures to ensure that the health care community has the capacity to care for those people who have to go to hospitals. At these times we have an 80_percent of the ICUs occupied; this 80 half is for Covid patients. Therefore, we are in an extremely complex situation. And among all of us we should reinforce the message to the citizenry that it is very important that it is complete with the resolutions and with the instructions of the health authority, and accompany the sectors affected. We're doing it and we're still doing it. You don't seem to be able to answer me right now, but I ask you a question: do you support us in the petition we made to the State Government to pay taxes, subsidies and social security contributions in the affected sectors?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.66.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, replacing the President of the Generality, about the resources allocated to the sectors most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.]] [[317-00233/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.67.0	Thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. Mr. Aragones, what would you say to all the people who are being asked for enormous personal, family, and economic sacrifices, when they see that they are being asked a lot of the central government, they are being asked a lot of meetings, but when the time comes for the Government of the Generality, they do not have enough economic resources to support sectors such as bars, restoration, aesthetic centres; they do not act in a way that contains work inspections in installations that are recurring, that we know are at risk, such as now the escorts – and the last case we have now, in the Lands of the Ebra, is that of Padesa – or that it is not an investment in health that can be achieved with the contracting of necessary health professionals and also the tracing of necessary health care? What would you say to the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.68.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.69.0	That we have adopted measures this week; that they will be measures of €1,500 per establishment; that we will extend the presuppositional departure if, from the demands that arrive, with the 40_millions there is not enough; that we have enabled a system because the call is out on the proper days and because the payment is fast – this requires a great effort, but it is a managed effort; but, listen, more important is the effort that these sectors are making and that these people are making – and that we are working to find solutions. But above all we will not deceive: we will not conceal a health situation today to avoid a measure that can be considered unpopular if we see that it does not take us to the gates of a total confinement three weeks from now. People and citizens ask us to treat them as seniors and explain what the situation is. And precisely because we want to share it, from the government we want to call the presidents of parliamentary groups to share the state of health status and that we all contribute to making this call, this call to complete with the restrictions; it is absolutely necessary to not take any harder action.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.70.0	Thank you, Vice President. The deputy, again, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.71.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Aragonès, it is important that we do not question restrictive measures, but it is important to note that we cannot deal with the virus only with restrictions and with the help of the subject. It's not a time for tebies, it's a time for strength. And that's why we're asking you for strong measures, with sufficient economic resources, a national pact for health and also job inspections, which is a topic you're talking about a little bit about, but it's important. Look, the emergency professionals at the Sea Hospital made a pickle a couple of days ago that was desolating. You know what I was saying? That after seven quiet months, without making a puddle, for prudence, now they have no more reason to denounce – and I quote textually –"the disastrous management that is being done. And I'm giving it to you for responsibility before this second wave. Weeks ago they also told us, therefore, that the subject of the trackers was controlled, that there was not enough. And the other day at the FAQS we got stoned when a person from the department shows up saying that they're not enough and that from then on we'll start seeing where the source of each case is. And we also know that the hospitals in Catalonia are reprogramming the interventions they had planned because many Covid patients are already arriving. In view of this situation, which we believe to be of enormous complexity, Mr Aragonès, we ask the people to be sacrificed, but the government must be on the rise. And as always, we say to him: "I am counting on us. We will be there, in this meeting that is proposing us to the presidents of the parliamentary groups. Until now, there were only meetings with the spokesman of Salvation. It's time, too, because the months and weeks that come very much I fear will be difficult, that we are also in these meetings, because we need to do a lot of teaching and we also need to share proposals to get out of this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.72.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Vice President, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.73.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, at this point we have two thousand people who are working on the follow-up of contacts, contacts before a positive case. Yesterday, the Government approved a programme for which more than four hundred people would join, which would be in addition to the drawings of people who would join the Barcelona Public Health Agency, we would be in about 2,500 people, 2,500 workers, who would make the whole bag of contacts, when they did..., so just before the pandemic for these cases were just a few drawings. We've been doing five thousand PCRs to the pandemic innician week, to the second week of March, to make more than 150,000 per week. We've incorporated the antigen tests: a million we already have, another million we have reserved; they're starting to spread to the CAP so that they can do in those cases where there are symptoms and, therefore, they have a high sensitivity, and they also allow us to get faster results. And we also have the will to approve a plan of work that must not only include measures for the economic sectors, but also social needs in the field of housing, in the nine needs of guaranteed income that we need and in support of the rest of the sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.74.0	Thank you, President; time is up. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the allocation of money from the State Fund to address the crisis of the Covid-19]] [[317-00235/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.75.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Vice-President of the Generality, in place of the President of the Generality, since the outbreak of the pandemic caused by the Covid-19, the administrations, all of them, have had to make a great deal of effort to deal with the necessary measures to guarantee the safety and security of the citizenry and to alleviate the consequent social and economic crisis. In this sense, the Spanish Government approved in June a Covid grant of €16,000_million to the autonomous communities for extraordinary expenses, a non-repayable grant that in the case of Catalonia will represent this year 2020 €3,225_million, of which the Generality has not yet rejected 1,584. It was approved yesterday that for the coming year, in addition to the new non-repayable fund and a greater margin of deficit, we will have about 5,000_million more euros for Catalonia. I know he's going to tell me that everything is insufficient, but what I want to ask him is how the 1.548 million euros have been spent and how they actually consisted of the assumptions that you still haven't explained.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.76.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.77.0	Thank you very much, President. All these assumptions are published and available, but I will explain it. These resources from the part that we have so far rejected have been intended for the field of health, because there has been an increase in the extraordinary activity: there has been contract, purchase of all kinds of sub-ministries, technological purchase. In the second place, they were intended to teach, with the contracting of more than five thousand professionals in the field of teaching. This size, this increment was not foreseen in the assumption and, therefore, has gone to cover this area. They have gone to the new ones needed in the residential area, because at these times we are having empty spaces to the residences in order to be able to derive user residents who may be affected by Covid, because they can do the wing correctly. Therefore, we need to reserve some space. That's a little bit of money. There's an EPI, there's got to be a whole series of reinforcements. They have also obviously been intended for the compensation that has been made to health personnel, which has also been articulated for resident staff, in order to make this recognition, which I believe is absolutely essential. And there will be a part that the State asks you to make up for the fall in entrances, but that we will continue to work in this area. As I said, there is now a deficit margin of 0.2. Up now, two months after closing the year, and therefore, it will be possible to execute, and our intention is to allocate it to a platform of rock that also covers the field of housing emergence, which covers support to economic and productive sectors, which also helps the entire field of universities and also the autonomous ones.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.78.0	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy, again, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.79.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, the Honourable Vice-President of the Generality, in place of the President of the Generality. Miri, Mr. Vice President, we believe that your government has been characterized by a lack of cooperation between administrations, a lack of dialogue with the forces of opposition, while you now announce that we are talking about it, and, moreover, an absolute lack of transparency. You say we have enough information on the presupposition changes. Miri, we don't think it's enough. And I want to add the other question. We would like to know the additional reasons for the State's rejection of what they have dedicated themselves to. You have a budget of €46,000_million. Tindran, encanny, 3,225_million euros more coming from the State has effects to attack the Covid and its effects. And therefore, we want to know what concrete efforts these resources have been devoted to, both the props and the additionals of the State. We demand leadership, we demand agreement, and we demand transparency, because we believe that the challenge we face demands it. He's about to make a political pact on economic reactivation, he's about to put the needle in the pact for salvation. We think it's worth posing because we still have a few months to go until the election.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.80.0	Thank you, Congressman. Vice President, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.81.0	Thank you, President. I've explained to him where he was meant to go and, if he comes, I'll explain it again. And I promise to get him the exact version of the assumptions approved by the government, which exceed a thousand million in the field of salvation, which are a few hundred in the field of teaching – which will have to be expanded – which also incorporates, in the field of culture, for compensation; which also incorporates, in the field of university, 20_million that have already passed to the field of universities and, therefore, measures that we are going to adopt. So, no problem, that's to say, absolute transparency. I believe now that we have an absolutely vital challenge, which is the foundation of European reactivation. And here I would like to ask your group, and all the groups in the chamber, to accompany the Government of the Government of Catalonia's petition that these funds are also managed from Catalonia, according to the priorities of Catalonia... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.82.0	Thank you, Vice President. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.83.0	...and that it is a country proposal and not just... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Vice-President and the Vice-President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.84.0	Thank you. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the judgment of the National Court in the court at the summit of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the judgment of the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia against the Bureau of the Parliament of the previous legislature.]] [[317-00236/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.85.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, vice president. That the Spanish State is basically injustice, we already knew, no surprise, but this week we've seen it again once more. No pain, no patience, no time will return to Major Traper and the inside dome. None. And the feeling makes us happy, but the debt is huge. But it's not the only feeling this week. They have also fired at the Bureau of Parliament and, therefore, at parliamentarianism and all of us here. The Bureau of the previous legislature is unable to allow Members to talk about everything, to let us debate independence, and this is judicially incomprehensible, but more so, politically and democratically unacceptable, because not only is parliamentary inviolability attacked, but it is intended to restrict the initiative of Members and Members, the representatives of all citizens. And there is no mistake: that the sentence does not involve, fortunately, imprisonment has nothing to do with the injustice that implies subjecting politics to the courts. It has nothing to do with the interference, another time, in the sobriety of this Parliament. It's obvious that disabling political representatives to allow a debate is a beast, and that's why we don't have to shut up and we have to say it every day and every day. We will not tire of saying that only an amnesty serves us to end this general cause. Because if another thing black plasma on white the feeling of dilluns is the judicial accumulating against President Carme Forcadell. You're not justice; you're revenge. And they only show us one time and another. It is a condemnation of a leader of independence, a key piece of political movement and citizenship, who he was, who he represented, who he was and who he is. Today, the disenfranchised members of the Bureau will be here, at their home, and we will be at their side. And that should cause everyone to be ashamed of the fact that they put the blame on the political side, on the sidelines of defending the right of all citizens to vote and decide whether we want to be a republic. Yes, we want to be. And we know that we will work to be more, that we will prepare better and that we will do it again. I want you to move on. And we also know that we cannot talk about freedom, democracy and independence in the Catalan Parliament. And if we do, we'll end up disabled. And the answer is clear, very clear: we'll do it whenever we want. What do you think he deserves, Vice President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.86.0	Thank you, Congressman. Time's up. To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.87.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. The virus has not displaced the repression, unfortunately we still have a continuous repression, a repression that goes in many areas. Since the Bureau of Parliament, which also involves a clear message to the current members of the Bureau who are working to guarantee, precisely, the parliamentary debate, and, therefore, from here, as I have already done before, I would like to express all the support to the members of the Bureau of President Forcadell who have been disqualified. And they were to allow the parliamentary debate, they were to facilitate the work of the parliamentary groups, in, clearly, a feeling that has a clear political connection with this general cause against independence. We have also seen today as the National Audience absolves Major Trapero and the rest of those responsible for the interior, the intendant Laplana and the Lords Puig and Soler, and we are not happy, but obviously repression is continuing, and the best way to deal with repression is amnesty. Amnesty, which must be the tool to overcome this stage, must, of course, allow us to face a negotiation, a dialogue that must allow us to put the future of this country in the citizenry, at its hands, by means of a self-determination reference. There is no alternative – there is no alternative – and that will happen. The question is what we want to do in a civic, democratic way, and how much better it can be. And to do that, we need a large majority. This country has broad consensus, and I believe that it is time to continue working and strengthening these consensuses as well. Not only the consensus before the health, economic or social, or environmental emergency, that we are living today, but also the consensus to overcome this situation. And the consensus is amnesty, the repression and the decision of the people, the decision of the ballot box, the decision of democracy. And these two consensuses are the ones that independence has also assumed to defend in any area of negotiation, in any area of dialogue, in any area of inquiry into the institutions of the State. And that's the way we need to go, because it's true that today's virus also places other very important priorities on us, but it hasn't eliminated repression. A repression that responds to a general cause that, as I said, will only end with amnesty and amnesty to achieve self-determination.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.88.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, whether he has assumed that cooperation with the rest of the State is essential to get out of the crisis]] [[317-00234/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.89.0	Mr Aragonès, should we understand by your request to the President of the Government who has finally assumed that cooperation with the rest of Spain is essential in order to get out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.90.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.91.0	We always demand their responsibilities from the Government of the State. We want to hold them all, so we are independent: responsibilities in collecting taxes, in legislating, in representing interests before Europe and the world. While you're doing it the State, while there's this, we won't give in to a one-thousand-thousand-metre of demanding the State to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.92.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.93.0	Mr Aragonès, you continue to show in the midst of the pandemic the same contempt for the Catalan economy that Mr Junqueras showed when he said he was going to paralyze Catalonia for a week, or do you forget which party he belongs to? Maybe like Mr. Batet. [[the timer riu]] , who suffers sudden amnesia and says: "Convergence? Who? What? , bleaching? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Look, the letter you sent to the President of the Government of Spain does fall within the obligations of any autonomous government, asking the Government of Spain for aid and a moratorium on taxes, but you have been doing the opposite for a long time. A few months ago, already in the midst of the pandemic, you approved budgets with tax increases, including succession budgets, and you do not adjust your belt with equivalent measures such as those you are asking for by letter to the Government of Spain. You spend the day blaming all our evils, as you have just done now, Madrid and the evil Spanish State, and you also fight each other. You and Mr. Tremosa are fighting now to see who, who of you is going to go to the Conference of Presidents next Monday. They didn't want to go before and left the chair empty, and now they're playing chairs because they want to go everyone. More than a government you look like the Marx brothers' cabin. And when you decide whether or not you're going to go, you don't do it based on the interests of Catalans, but on the picture you present to your independent electorate. Look, that's basically the difference between you and us. When Ciutadans rules, there will be nothing legitimate that we don't ask for or anywhere where we don't go, and in everything that Catalan interests are managed, we will be there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.94.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's the word, again, the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.95.0	Mr Carrizosa, not amnesia, but to do the dues of this House of Parliament does ask you. I'm basically saying that because at three o'clock in the afternoon we're debating a law decree that it's postponing the tax bill. You say... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, a law that does with the CO2 tax..., that allows the adjournment in the area of the tourist tax, and, if I let myself speak, that I think it is a scarce virtue in its case, to let others speak, so I find it that virtue..., remember that there have been decrees approved by you for this Parliament in which we suspended the levy of taxes in all areas that we recovered during the duration of the state of alarm, and then adapted the terms. Therefore, records – records. When he speaks of amnesia as his deputy, which is his obligation, the laws that are valid in this Parliament, remember them and, therefore, honor the truth when he intervenes in this chamber. You referred to issues arising in the media, and no problem. We always go to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia if you need them. And you're more concerned about who's the proper name to attend on behalf of the government at the Conference of Presidents of the next day. The government will be there, no doubt about it. And, on the other hand, he seems to care very little about the content, which is going to defend. You, who are still the first party of the chamber in this legislature for the time being – let us hope that after the citizenry puts them in the place that corresponds to them – do they not care what the position is on European foundations? They're more likely to be names than the proposal: a reactivation fund? Will you be on the side of the Government of Catalonia because the maximum resources arrive in Catalonia, or will you also have amnesia? Won't he remember? Like decrees that you say do not exist, but that you approved in this Parliament. Are you looking at what proposals we will make in the area of the economy for life, in the area of digitalisation, in the area of the green agenda, in the knowledge society? We do. And we, here, will be accompanied, too, by a very important part of Catalan society. You shouldn't miss it. I think you should be on the side of the government, defending...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.96.0	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.97.0	...that the maximum of European funds reach... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.98.0	Time's up. [[Ask the Government about democratic memory]] [[310-00399/12]] The next question is about the democratic memory and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.99.0	Thank you very much, President. Amid the situation of Covid and this health, social and economic crisis, let me take a look at the past, but why do we need to face the future even more firmly. You passed, Constella Capella, we remembered and honored President Lluís Companies and Younger. It was the 15th of October, and it is complementary to the eighty years of its sinking, of its murder at the hands of the Franco regime, at the hands of the behest. And it's been 80 years since a state crime. It's been a lifetime, these eighty years. And now, eighty years later, the Spanish State and who represents it, the Government of the present State, has not yet asked for forgiveness or repaired the damage. We want to remember President Companies and claim it, because he represents the Republican ideals that we believe are still stronger and more necessary than ever, the values of social justice, solidarity, democracy, defending that social struggle and national struggle are indestriable struggles. This is the political will of President Companies. And we want to remember him, too, because he symbolized the Catalan institutions and was the highest authority in the country when he was murdered. And they just wanted to murder him because, with his murder, what they wanted is to eliminate all this, all he represented. But you see, they didn't get it, and we're not just here, and we feel and we ratify as the heretics and heretics of President Company, but we're fully convinced that it's just keeping alive the collective memory of those who defend freedom, of those who defend social rights to build a more just and cohesive society. And in this we believe, counsel, that the Government of the Generality is doing the work: ambitious memory policies, the Law of legal reparation of victims of the Francoism, which has already benefited more than sixty-six thousand people – breaking the silence and being able to do the pain, as you well say, with the Pla de Fues. And here, let me'remember, therefore, both the Councillor Mundó and the Councillor Romeva, who are justly persecuted and retaliated for the State. It contrasts this good work of the Government of the Generality with a state that is late in memory and where the addition of the franchise, for example, is not criminalized. Or contrast, too, with the little compromise of the Barcelona Assembly, which cost him God and help, three years in fact, to give permission to place and place the call Stolpersteine. In any case, counsel, the path is walking and if it was any harder for anyone to leave, not for us to leave, but for us to complete the path for freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.100.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.101.0	We'd like to ask you about all these questions... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.102.0	To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.103.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Democratic memory, justice, and Spain are ways that they don't get used to finding. In the case of President Company, it is a good indicator of the democratic quality of the Spanish State. Eighty years after his sinking in the name of the State, therefore, the State and its head of State has not yet asked for forgiveness. In 1990, President François Miterrand, the President of the French Republic and German Chancellor Helmut Kohl did so. Neither the other heretic era, nor the Third Reich, nor the Vichy Regime, but democratic representatives of some states who handed over and deported President Companies. They asked for forgiveness, the Spanish State and the Head of State of the Spanish State, not yet done. Far from asking for forgiveness – you pointed it out very well – the State has renounced the persecution of the exhibition of Franco's symbolism. We see it every 12th of October, acts of homenation to the rebel bandol, which are celebrated with complete impunity. And, unfortunately, the tracks of Francoism are not only these acts, which are not winged, but we also see, therefore,..., with the monument, for example, of Tortosa, located at the middle of the river Ebre – monument, certainly, property of the State –, forced the State, for the Law of Historical Memory of 2007, approved thirty years ago and that neither the State, therefore, is seen to have found the time to be able to remove the monument of the river. If they don't, because this is the will expressed in form..., by the fact– by the fact you will know them – so we are determined and determined to do so. I'll do it. It's more, as you pointed out, Catalonia has advanced in democratic memory, so look: exhumanate away, identifying the remains buried in the pits, having a hundred disappeared, a database of genetic samples of relatives; nullifying the political judgments of the franchise. And on the other side, so, let's say the State hasn't made it yet, but look if it hasn't made it up there late and it's short. And it's very short because what I would have to regulate, which is the enhancement of the franchise, the exhibition of symbolism, which I would have to contemplate in the Penal Code, as it did in his day Germania with the Nazis. So, look, the Spanish State's up late and it's short. So look, I turn back the words and the ideal of President Companies, of what it represents for the values...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.104.0	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.105.0	...of pau, of love... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.106.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about digital applications in the covid-19 pandemic marc]] [[310-00401/12]] The next question is about digital applications in the covid-19 pandemic marc. And the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Pol Gibert. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.107.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Puignero, we are aware that in the last few months, his department has made a digital support pocket in different departments of the Government. Between them, hello, obviously. That is why our group wants a clear and concrete answer to the following question: given that you are the most responsible for digital policy, could you explain to us why Radar Covid's application to Catalonia is not out of the question? And why is it the only community that doesn't have it active? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.108.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.109.0	Thank you, President; Member. In the first place, it is already curious that the first question your group asks me, throughout this legislature, throughout the legislature, about digital policies, does not continue on a government policy, but on a state policy. But in any case, I'll answer the question. Miri, the CTTI, the Department of Digital Policy, has done the integration work of the Radar Covid application so that it can be put on the market, so when that is considered by the Health Department. I'm aware that the Health Department is working to activate it quickly. And, therefore, that's what he'll do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.110.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.111.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, it seems to me that the question we ask you is very important. Maybe I'd pick another one, but it's what this group has sorted out, and it seems to me that it's important for the situation we live in Catalonia. Look, counselor, this pandemic that we're all living together coincides with how important it is that I'm tracking it. A safe and effective tracking. I know that you are with an independent state, where all would be perfect, the pandemic management would be wonderful, but I feel like announcing to you that it is not the current case and that we cannot live from dreams, we must live the current reality. And the reality is that, I'll explain it briefly. We have today a risk of a rebound of 550 points, 75 points more than yesterday. The month of August, the government of the state put Radar Covid in the march. At the end of the same month, the Councillor of Salut asked for the activation of the application in Catalonia – we are talking about the month of August. The secretary of public health assured us that with the beginning of the school year, we would have Radar Covid on the way. And I don't know about your people, but my people started school on September 14th, five weeks ago. Just fifteen days ago, it was said that the government was still working on data integration to get the app out of the way, but a week ago, its Digital Policy secretary – and yesterday you reaffirmed it to us – tweeted to this MP that the app was ready and hoping that the health authority would give his okay. Counselor, what's the matter with us? They're the same government, you guys. How do you explain to us that, after EUR 44_million that CTTI has intended to hire companies during the emergence, we do not have an application like this active? How do you explain that to us? How does it explain that Catalonia is not able to activate a system that is integrated at European level? How does it explain that in an interconnected world, we are completely disconnected? Why are they refusing to set up a tool that doubles the effectiveness of tracking? Counselor, in a country where tourism is basic, a Belgian city will receive positive contact notifications if it goes to Alacant or Malaga, but does not go to Girona or Tarragona. What do we tell these tourists? You're not doing everything you can to track cases, it's obvious. And put economic recovery in danger. And now, in addition, also damage the image of Catalonia. How much longer do we have to wait to get an answer on this? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.112.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.113.0	Thank you, President. Look, it's just that you guys don't seem to be able to give any lessons about the management of the pandemic, that they're the worst government in Europe in managing this health crisis. I'm not saying that, am I? That's what The Economist says, I'm talking European newspapers with Politics and other institutions. Therefore, from your group, let us learn, the just, how to manage or how to manage this pandemic, also in the technological field. Miri, he won't find the entire government's chief technology advisor to help solve people's problems, he won't. And, therefore, let me give you a tip: technology, because it is useful, above all it needs – and in the case of this application, which you mention, Radar Covid –, it needs, above all, confidence. Digital trust, huh? This is what you and your government don't generate among the people. And they don't generate it, especially, also, among the Catalan people. Listen, you are the ones who have militarized press wheels, you are the ones who are refusing to investigate, for example, the espionage with Pegasus, which has been done to members of this Parliament and to other parts of Catalonia. You are also the authors of the famous digital decree which, if one thing does it is to investigate, to forgive, to spy on the citizens of this country without a court order and only to engage in public questions. What confidence are you generating with the applications your government generates? Quina? Let me give you a tip. They want to really... I want this application to work and to be useful for the lives of the citizens: to repeal the digital decree, to repeal it; to do society a favor and to generate digital trust so that, not only this application will be future applications of their government's digital policies, but also of the government of Catalonia will be truly effective. Because it needs critical mass to work, the data is proving it. Switzerland is at these times with this application, at 30_percent of users.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.114.0	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. [[Ask the Government about the preliminary draft of the general telecommunications law being processed by the Government of the State]] [[310-00405/12]] The next question is about the preliminary draft of the General Telecommunications Act, which is being processed by the Government of the State. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.115.0	Yes, good morning, President. Counselors, advisers, deputies, wanted to begin by showing my support to the members of the Bureau who have been sentenced, in particular, to Deputy Guinno. The Catalonian Parliament has to debate the reality of the country and the electoral programmes: self-determination, independence or monarchy. Censorship and repression is not the way, but self-censorship is not the way. We want to address Councillor Puignero to ask respect for this draft law that is in the Congress, the draft law of telecommunications. And it is true that we have a socialist government, a government with the complicity of Podemos that they approved a "digital decree that allows tracking communications without judicial authorization; that they have blocked the use of blockchain technology in the search, for example, in the field of salvation. And now they're worried about the application of Radar Covid? And what do you think, that they vetoed the IdentiCat project, of the Government of the Generality, that you so well went to the management of the pandemic, why protect the data of the citizens? What responsibility do you have for this application that you vetoed under the digital decree? Therefore, the telecommunications law project is an obsolete, recentizing law project. Moreover, the European Directive obliges all citizens to ensure universal access to communications. And this bill, which is in Congress, is absolutely delimiting, because it does not guarantee this universal access of citizens to telecommunications. Therefore, it does not transpose the Community Directive and, moreover, it is a draft law that goes against European principles. Access to telecommunications is the electricity of the 21st century. It is the best policy of social and economic cohesion, of fighting against the reduction of the Covid, it is the best policy for the recovery of the economy and for equal opportunities. This telecommunications law project doesn't break with the digital bretxa; it's an obsolescent law and represents its model of state, not ours. Our model of the State is a public network of optical fiber in Catalonia. And, in addition, this law also violates the skills in the field of territories, because it does not allow subsidiarity or cooperation when telecommunications pass through the territory. Therefore, we understand that no country can allow luxury to ignore opportunities. And this PSOE telecommunications law and we can do it. We'll take you to Europe. That's why, Counselor Puignero, we wanted to know what the government's grasp of this law is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.116.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.117.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, actually, huh? We are certainly ahead of one of the most important laws passed at the Congress of Deputies, therefore, in the proper months. More important than today, digital technologies are taking advantage of everything. They're all over the place, huh? They're needed in any area of our lives. And in this sense, we're concerned that this law... we're concerned that you don't think that it should be three principles that we think are essential because it's a good law. The first is that it is a decentralized model, and therefore, in this case, Catalonia can participate with all of you. The second is that it's a law that encourages innovation, that it's not. And thirdly, and most importantly, it's a law that won't violate citizens' rights. We are ahead of the risk at a certain point, at a point of inflection, in which different models of the world are moving forward for what it does to..., respecting, therefore, the impact these technologies have on the rights of the people, on the rights of the people, on the deprivation. And we have the suspicion that this law is a maneuver, at these times, of the PSOE government, with the accomplices of Podemos, to whitewash what was the infamous digital decree. In a way, we see how the digital decree is being reaffirmed in this law being drafted by the Spanish Government. That's why I'm good at the commons, too, huh? , that in this Parliament, therefore, they told us that they would set the first ones to ensure that this decree was repealed. Escotti, Mrs. Albiach, can we or can't we? Can we or can't we? What are you singing about this action, so say, what is the State doing so as not to guarantee the rights of the citizens of Catalonia? What did you sing about the scales? They're with the PSOE government or they're with the people of Catalonia so that, in this sense, "the most progressive government in history, so I didn't convert this spy law into law, huh? Look, and to conclude, this week we have heard a very important news: the Cesicate of Permanent Rumorology and the accusations made by the Citizens' Lords and have been made during the seven years since the Cesicate's espionage to the citizens of Catalonia. I've been listening to you for nothing. I'll forgive you tomorrow, please, in this parliamentary office of yours... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone from the counselor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.118.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the changes in the rules of the table d'emergència d'habitatge]] [[310-00396/12]] The next question is about the changes in the regulation of the housing emergency table and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.119.0	Yeah. Counselor, what are the reasons and what is the purpose of the changes made in the regulation of the valuation table of economic and social emergencies in Catalonia in late October 2nd? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.120.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.121.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member, speaking in this Parliament, has always had exile and political prisoners and reprisals present, but these days more than ever before, at the Bureau of Parliament – a hug to Lluís Guinó – and also at the absolute feeling of the interior dome. Focusing on the subject you asked me, what we have done has continued to improve the rules of the valuation table. A better one that has been communicated to the social services of the gatherings so that it works better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.122.0	Thank you, Counselor. I got the word another time the congresswoman. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.123.0	So, counselor, what makes social services come to us from some of the congregations, and I'm not talking about Barcelona in this case, I'm talking now about congregations like Prat or Olesa de Montserrat, is that what makes this change is to leave out the most vulnerable families that receive social assistance from the social services at the emergency table. He literally says: "The cases that are coming from public parks or public management in general and need constant attention and social follow-up are excluded. It is to say, that the most vulnerable families, who are attached to social services and who are temporarily in an emergency municipal habitation, are punished and are now excluded from accessing the housing resources of the emergency table. You know that municipal housing resources are resources that are meant to give immediate, emergency and temporary attention to situations of extreme vulnerability, but that, once the urgency and vulnerability are addressed, it is necessary to process the request at the table in order to reach a stable habitation. And, in this way, the emergency appeal, therefore, remains free for another family in this situation. But with this modification, so you're going to end this and leave them out of the possibility of accessing this stable habitation. Counselor, the agreement of assumptions that our group signed with its government, one of the things that included was already leaving the months of emergence to zero. In fact, we have collected it in a motion that this group presented in July and in which Parliament unanimously approved to reinforce the months of emergency in Catalonia to eliminate the waiting list of cases pending habitating. But, counselor, by mitigating the expansion of habitats, they do not betray the families of the waiting lists. You, as if they didn't invest in us habitations, so your way of putting the lists at zero seemed to be to take out the people, who don't come in, expel them, ask for more because they can't access them. It would be a laugh if you weren't to cry, counselor, because what a cynicism. You seem to be mocking the most vulnerable families and mocking the social workers who are giving their faces, giving the answer to the emergency situation. And what you're trying to do is to cover up the vulnerable families who are supported by social services and who are in temporary housing at the edge of the estora. Counselor, we ask you to rectify and take a step back, to stop drowning, because the Generality in housing policy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.124.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.125.0	...it's neither there nor expected it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.126.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.127.0	Now, Congresswoman, he's been misinformed. The truth is, he wasn't well informed by his Prat and Olesa partners. What we've done is improve the rule why the change, the concrete change we've approved is that – concretely it's from October 8th, huh? – persons or families who are living in a permanent municipal public management housing and are not in a vulnerable situation cannot request a housing through the table, but their request must be through the register of housing solicitants with official protection. And what actually causes it is that it prevents social entities or even joint ventures from giving end-of-year contracts to families that already have permanent housing in a management or public ownership habitat. And that's what they do because they think the Generality through the Emergence Table will find another habitation. That's dressing one saint to undress another. And precisely, that was the best we've ever introduced. Millora that has been well valued for the majority of social services of the months of emergence of Catalonia or individualizations. It is a mockery, honourable Member, of what the Government of the State is doing with the housing policy. And you who are part of the "most progressive government in history should help us to reverse, for example, the sub-offshore actius that the state government has just done or, at least, that sub-offshore actius to enter money for housing policies. You are part of the political group that brings together the Government of the State and, in change, allow and let there be this below the coast, to the Assembly of Barcelona, certainly you, that are almost the representatives of the Assembly of Barcelona to the Parliament of Catalonia. Or it should also be reversed that the State Government is passing through this area, distributing millions of money only to the Barcelona City Council, when these money should go to the Government of Catalonia to develop a housing policy that takes into account the entire metropolitan area. That you, when they're interested in the Hospital and when they're only interested in the centre we have money for Barcelona now. So these moneys, what they should do is come to the generality so they can make good housing policies. Help me with this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.128.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the new identification number of the Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00404/12]] The next question is about the new identification number of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Lluís Guinó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.129.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor d'Interior, honored to be a deputy of this chamber, yours of popular sovereignty... [[Greetings.]] Basically, for a question that has to do with the right of passive suffrage, which is a right of speech and which precisely allows the citizenry to choose its representatives. It is not justified, in any case, that with the intercession of third persons it is possible to carry out the result of elections by means of suspensions, by means of disqualifications, and therefore, from this point of view, what would require is that all the political forces that support this type of policy, to transfer politics to the magistrates and to the decision-making capacity of these magistrates, cease to do so. The elections are won at the polls, and those of us who believe that it is always the ballot boxes that give reason to our policies there..., somehow, we reaffirm, from this perspective. I also want to take advantage of a comment that respects the feeling of the National Audience – and that the Councillor is aware that he has already made a public appearance – that beyond the joy that, from a personal point of view, generates the feeling for us, there is another question that we also want to comment on and that puts it in value, that at a certain point in time was put in question, the professionalism of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, that this is an aspect that must be valued from a point of view. And they ask him that that task and this work that have been done by the Squadron Mosses for many years, and especially difficult for a few years, that was 2013 and 2014, and that generated public problems, which, in most cases, the Squadron Mosses knew how to solve. And what I wanted to ask him is in what measure all the better things that have been done at the level, precisely, of identifying the movements of the squad, of what is transparency in his work, the ease that the citizens have precisely to identify when it is possible to generate, in some cases, obviously very exceptional, of bad practice, is one of the policies that this Government and this councillor is moving forward. Go, somehow, from work before. A good job was done from this perspective, and not only from a political point of view, it is also very interesting because behind there are concerns about social and citizenship. I'd ask you to explain to us what his capture is through this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.130.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the words of the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Sàmper.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.131.0	Thank you, President. Congratulations, Congressman. And let me also extend your congratulations to the four investigators who have been acquitted with this feeling of the National Audience: Mrs. Laplana, Mr. Puig, Mr. Soler and Mr. Trapero. A compliment that I extend, not just as a counselor, but from the department and the entire Government of the Generality. And a feeling that as the deputy said very well, what he does is neither more nor less than taking any doubt of the work that had been done by the Squad Ways. The acquittal of the four defendants investigated is the acquittal of the entire Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad You should never have doubted your work, your professionalism. We will have to read this sentence to see what explanation has maintained an accusation that lasted more than three years, unjustly, as the absolute sentence obviously demonstrates. And it already respects the question that I ask about the subject of identifications, it is important that you know, that in the matter of days it will do what is the new identification, the NOP, the known NOP, that the novelty is that we will have a 360 degree vision. That is to say, when the anti-trauma weapons, the protectors, were laid, the circumstance was produced that covered what the TIP was. So now it will be on the front side, on the back side, but also on the helmet, on the right side and on the left side, so that we will have this 360 degree view. Not just that. To carry the identification in the helmet we will also get that, in problems or in public circumstances, we always have the opportunity to distinguish what is the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. This, as you said, deputy, is not from now on. This goes from the work done for the previous advisor, in Miquel Buch, and it is a job that is in the march of the better camp than that audit that was made in which they were his conclusions. A path of improvement that obviously speaks of what transparency is. That's transparency. And not just what I gave him, from a 360-degree view, but also reduced what was alphanumeric identification, which was again digits, and passed to six. Therefore, with a willingness that everyone can identify that public actor at any time of tension.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.132.0	Thank you, Counselor. The control session is over... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.133.0	On a point of order, Mr President. [[Pause.]] Yeah. We are used to making assessments of the judicial situation, but that Mr Guinó, who has been condemned precisely for overstepping the rights of Members of Parliament, [[remorse of the voice]] I urge parliamentary groups to let them be run over by the members of the Bureau, I find it intolerable, Mr Guinó, with all personal appreciation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.134.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.135.0	...who knows I've got him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.136.0	...this is a debate with the deputy who doesn't correspond. It's not a point of order. So let's keep going. [[Decree-Law No 32/2020 of 22 September, amending Law No 17/2014 of 23 December 2014 on the representation of agricultural professional organisations]] [[203-00057/12]] The next item on the agenda is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 32/2020, on 22 September, for which Law 17/2014, of 23 December, on the representativeness of agricultural professional organizations is amended. In accordance with Article 150.2 of the Rules of Procedure, in the first place the Agriculture Adviser, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. There's a word for the councilwoman. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.137.0	Thank you very much, President. Benvolguts, benvolguts, deputies and deputies, the other day, does not make masses of days, reconnecting an expert, surely also known for all of you, Mr. Francesc Reguant, this one is asking if the society is really prepared to take responsibility for its future from the use of technologies with such extraordinary potentials. And when he had just asked himself this, he just added: and the primary sector, is it prepared? So, mirin, let me move forward in the answer: yes. An extremely round yes, an alt yes, a clear yes. And an example of this roundness we have here today, in this decree that followed the step to present. With the legislative amendment adopted in the Council's framework, by law, the electronic voting method is introduced in the elections to determine the representativeness of the professional agricultural organisations, eh? ; elections that are currently regulated by a law, concretely by Law 17/2014, of 23 December. Thus, this law has been modified and the electronic vote replaces the current physical and traditional vote, and it also presents, to say the truth, the benefits of the use of information and communication technologies in the electoral field. Let me just hang out like that, huh? In this way, the page will be one of the first sectors to make an official electoral process through electronic voting. A fact that, why not say it? We're deeply proud of him. Besides, in a context like the present, hit by the Covid-19, it's also an exercise, in my opinion, of courage, and, why not say so? , also, of courage, bet for mechanisms that help to reduce the presenceality. We want to think... well, in fact we do not want to think, we are convinced that it is also a democratic impulse that must facilitate and improve the participation of the sector in the decision making process. Electors will be able to vote remotely from anywhere or in the face points that are set up for assistance in the electronic vote. A compromise – I say so: a compromise – fully oriented towards the future. And it is, as it cannot otherwise be, the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture and this Government too to make it possible and also to guarantee all those necessary conditions because in the first quarter of 2021 the first election date with telematic voting is a success. In the future technology of this electronic voting project, the Department of Agriculture relies on the collaboration of the Innovation and Data Directorate of the Telecommunications and Information Technologies Centre, and the Department of Digital Policies and Public Administration. And, as always – as always – and here I put a lot of emphasis on it, we have made it from the consensus. It couldn't have been any other way. The resulting text is the result of a job, a firm job, promoted and awarded to the sector's joint venture, and especially the agricultural organisations with representation. The result has also been endorsed for the Agricultural Table. And from here, to all and all of them I want to convey a gigant grace, an ingenious grace, for all the work done in the framework of the working group together. Thank you; many thanks to everyone for their hard work, above all to always work for the primary sector of this country, which, as I always say, is indisputably an indispensable sector. I enter, if it looks like them, quickly in the content of the decree. The law decree consists of an exhibition of motius, three articles and a final disposition. If it seems to you, I'm going to comment on each of these three articles in a way, as you can hear, extremely telegraphic and brief. The first article of the decree provides for the addition of a new chapter, huh? , which is Chapter IV, in force Llei 17/2014, of 23 December, of the representativeness of agricultural professional organisations, under the heading « Electronic voting system in elections to determine the representativeness of agricultural professional organisations. This new chapter has eight articles on it, huh? from 45 to 52. They are articles dedicated to the implementation of electronic voting so that all aspects are regulated because electronic voting can be implemented immediately. Article 45 provides that the call may determine that the right of active vote is exercised only for the electronic voting system, and that the electronic vote may be exercised in person at the attendance points in the electronic voting system or remotely from any other place. Article 46 establishes the guarantees of the electronic voting system in terms similar to other electronic voting regulations, such as the electronic voting of the official chambers of commerce, industry, services and navigation of Catalonia, which was implemented through Decree 3/2017 of 27 June, of urgent measures for the holding of elections to the official chambers, in this case, eh? , and the constitution of its governing bodies, and regulated through Decree 175/2018 of 31 July 2018, on the electoral regime of the official chambers of commerce, industry, services and navigation of Catalonia. Article 47 regulates the attendance points in the electronic vote, which must, of course, have the figure of the person responsible, who is recruited into a public employee, and who is assigned a series of functions related to the proper functioning of the vote. Article 48 regulates the content of the call, it is noteworthy that a voting day is provided for by remote electronic means with a maximum of 250 points, in this case face-to-face, of assistance in the electronic vote, and additionally a maximum of seventy-five points is provided for the following day with the purpose, according to the justified report, of sending the vote to face-to-face points and avoiding agglomerations of voters, if that was the case. Article 49 regulates voting by electronic means in a remote manner, enabling manner for physical persons, who may also choose to vote at a point of assistance in the electronic vote, and compulsory voting by legal persons through digital certificates. Article 50 regulates voting by electronic means in person at the attendance point in the electronic vote, which is reserved only for physical persons. It also contemplates the development of the vote and the incidences that can be produced. And Rule 51 regulates the finalization of the vote, both remote and face-to-face. And finally, Article 52 regulates the verification of the results by means of scrutiny of votes cast. Article 2. Article 2 of the Law Decree provides for specific amendments to Law 17/2014 aimed at adapting, improving and giving coherence to the final regulation. Article 3 of the Decree adds an additional provision, the third, to Law 17/2014, of 23 December, and provides that the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food of the country shall establish mechanisms of collaboration with local entities for the establishment and operation of assistive points in the electronic vote. And finally, the final provision, which provides for the entry into force of the decree read the same day as the publication in the official journal. As I have already pointed out, this new voting method presents the benefits of using information and communication technologies in the electoral field. The implementation of electronic voting must guarantee the effectiveness of the voting right, encourage participatory culture, increase public participation in the electoral process, improve the management process and the accounting of votes, achieve an effective reduction in the economic costs associated with any electoral process, as well as benefit the environment, in line with the obvious reduction in paper consumption. The existence of face-to-face assistive points in the electronic vote finds its justification in the willingness to mitigate the possible negative effects that the electronic vote may entail in terms of participation, as well as the adaptation that the electorate will have to do in the use of the electronic voting media for the first time. It is clear that the department ensures that the electronic vote at these points of attendance will follow all the preventive and protective measures that are in place at the time of the holding of the said electoral process. And finally, just indicate that it has been necessary to approve this decree because we understand that it is a question of responsibility in the Covid-19 march to make it possible and to enable the vote to be held in a secure way. In this way, as well as the need to implement the use of electronic media in the areas of our society, it is possible to use electronic voting in elections to clearly determine the representativeness of the professional organisations involved. Let us wait – let us wait – to be able to apply it as soon as possible. In fact, we will be, as we cannot otherwise be, lovers of its development, which we hope will have positive effects for the conjunction of the sector and, by extension, why not say so? , also to our society. For all this, Members, Members, ask the plenary of Parliament, and on behalf of the Government, what you choose to validate this decree that I have just introduced to you. Many thanks for your attention and above all for your collaboration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.138.0	Thank you, Counselor. We then move on to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to fix their position on this turn of interventions of two minutes per parliamentary group. In the first place, has the word the deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.139.0	Thank you, Members. First, thank the councillor for the presentation of this decree. I don't doubt his best personal intentions, from Councilwoman Jordan, but we have to give our version, which is a different little one. In this debate of validation of the decree law of representativeness of the agricultural organizations..., it is a decree law allegedly urgent and necessary; a decree law allegedly motivated by the pandemic; a decree law amending a pen and without debate the law of 2014 regulating the representativeness of the professional agricultural organizations; a decree law that intends to implement an electronic voting system with the alleged justification of avoiding a call that may contravene the health security measures of the Covid. So far everything seems right and well-intentioned, but I will explain what guarantees an electronic voting system should have. It's no secret, the decree itself explains. Electronic voting should guarantee the freedom to vote, the secrecy of the vote, privacy, that there should be no link between the vote and the voter, the destruction of personal information... ; must guarantee the identification, integrity and inalterability of the vote, guarantees that the will expressed in this vote, the oneness, security at all stages of the electronic voting – in transmission, storage, traceability – is not altered; measures against the addition, removal, manipulation or supplantation; must ensure the safe identification of the voter. I would like to recall that the national identity document or electronic DNI are the only legal documents for personal identification. Electronic voting must ensure transparency throughout the procedure and in scrutiny, global and individual verifiability, auditability; it must be possible to verify that the whole voting process is correct. By analysing these guarantees well, it is almost certain that this decree law would not exceed an opinion of the Board of Guarantees Statutàries. I do not know how to see a firm commitment by this Government to the legal security of citizens; if this commitment existed, they would not have made this decree or drafted it in other words. In addition, little work has been done on consensus. There is a great disagreement with this decree in the sector. There are many..., there are presumed beneficiaries, the largest agricultural organizations, perhaps. No offense, but agricultural representativeness could come to look like a vertical union, typical of other times. The presence of smaller unions is being laminated. This decree law allows the vote to be exercised only as..., by electronic vote, i.e., it would be the only and exclusive way to vote. Only an electorate with a serious ageing problem, and therefore a major digital divide, can vote electronically in a rural area with large areas of digital coverage difficulty; a sector that, unfortunately, cannot implement everything that is desirable, many of the new digital technologies, simply because of technical problems. With this landscape, you want to implement the electronic vote. Really a little paradoxical. Among the arguments in favor of the decree itself, electronic voting allows to guarantee the effectiveness of the vote; to promote participatory culture, as the councillor has explained; to increase participation; to improve the management and counting of votes, to reduce costs, to consume less paper... – that's fine. They are really a little free and not entirely justified, and some of them are directly false. What Increases Participation? Do you believe that? How does the counting of votes improve? Which reduces costs? Have you calculated the cost of implementing a digital system well? That's right, paper will be spent less, that's for sure. A decree law that leaves the door open to return to the traditional, face-to-face model. It is clear that even the Government is not a hundred_per_cent sure that everything will go well, and even less sure that it will go better than the traditional system, because otherwise, they would not leave this door open. They say it will improve participation, but at the same time they recognize that this new system can have negative effects on participation, being the first time and the electorate will have to get used to this system. So much so that two hundred and fifty points of assistance are foreseen, unlike the more than five hundred polling stations in other calls. It is known, then, that part of the electorate may fail, but they say it increases participation, this new system. I see here a great contradiction. Of course the 2014 law is better and I'm going to set a couple of examples. First, the vote by mail. The certification and validation of this modality should be improved and more guarantees given to the vote by mail, and this could have been a good proposal to face the challenge of agricultural elections in Covid's time. Another example of possible improvement would be that representativeness was a faithful reflection of reality. Why don't we lower the 15_per_cent, that minimum required, to have representation? Why was it changed in 2014 and moved from 10_per_cent to 15_per_cent? The goal of leaving out someone who had a 13_per_cent turnout was achieved. Perhaps there was some agrarian organization that is precisely majority in Tarragona and that is crushing in Terres de l'Ebre and has no representation in the Taula Agrària. To me, all of this creates a lot of doubts, creates quite a lot of doubts, and I will ask them with ten questions: That we are in an exceptional situation? Yeah. That traditional elections are a challenge in the pandemic situation? Yes, but since the agrarian elections are imminent and the current situation is not normal, has the Government worked this decree law with the rest of the parliamentary groups? No, no, Is exclusive electronic voting essential? No, no, Is it necessary to vote in one day? No, no, Are these the only elections to be held in February? No, no, Are the agrarian elections going to generate more agglomerations? No, no, Is it impossible to guarantee social distancing and health measures in polling stations? No, no, It is perfectly possible, because it is assumed that the autonomics will be realized. Has the Government agreed to this decree with the agrarian organizations that often participate in these elections? No, no, Is the decree law the most participatory and open formula for amending a law? No, no, And these are my ten questions that I've self-contested. To sum up, and to finish my speech, we do not see the need for this decree law and other possible measures, such as increasing the number of polling stations or increasing the time or voting days, which have not been evaluated or at least this debate has not been opened. We do not see the urgency of this decree law. We do not trust the guarantees of the system of an electronic vote, there is already the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees on this. And we don't like a system that can lower participation. Less decrees laws and more bills, with all the guarantees, opinions, reports and all the necessary participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.140.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of MP Óscar Ordeig, Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.141.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, she said, were responsible for the Agriculture Department, which is certainly listening to us, and especially a record and a recognition of the real protagonists of the debate that we will have today, who are obviously farmers and farmers, farmers, producers and producers, and the whole of the agri-food sector, obviously with all its size and complexity. Obviously, we are experiencing difficult times and many changes in society in general, but in the agri-food sector in particular. And I'd like to start, too, remembering what must be our horitzo. Our horizon must be to remind society in general, and also to remember beyond our borders, that Catalonia is one of the main agri-food areas in Europe. And it has to be organized and conjured to continue to feel it, and also one of the world's main agri-food areas. That said, we have long been demanding measures, a package of support measures in times of current difficulties, support measures to the sector for the Covid crisis, especially some of the most affected sectors, which, curiously, were probably already most affected by the pre-Covid crisis price crisis. We have been complaining and we continue to insist today, here, that this is one of the priorities we have in front of us. And we don't only have these measures that we claim or this global reflection, but it gives us the sense that the government sees today, here, without consulting with the rest of the parties or parliamentary groups, on a very transcendental issue, when we hear them. A few articles, but of great transcendence. That for us it was not the most important and relevant issue for the continuity of the exploitations, many, at risk of not guaranteeing their viability and disappearing. And a lot on the line of what Congressman Francisco Domínguez has said here, a lot on the line of what we have done and we have allowed some Members who today, too, like what he is talking about, to make a change to 2014 with a few changes, one of which is to increase the percentage so that you have represented it, leaving out an agrarian organization. I believe that time has shown that this was a mistake, in order to encourage you to see that they represent the sector and that they can tell it their own. And also, let's just say it here. I think a certain perplexity, because when one reads the decree, say: oysters, we are in a situation of difficulties. Okay. We have to make sure that we can make... that the organizations can work. Okay. Let him be able to make the elections. Okay. There are some health restrictions. Okay. And then I thought: "So now there will be a battery of measures so that the crisis affects as little as possible. I don't. And he says: "As all this is happening, what we have to do is vote by phone in our own elections. Home, I, of the precedents I do not extrapolate that this is the most urgent need we have. And I'm also going to say, listen, we were here a little while ago, and the government was bringing us a sports decree that said you could make phone calls for the Covid in sports, but you couldn't elect members or elections. So, the government goes here with a decree that tells us that they don't guarantee the conditions necessary to be able to make elections to sports organizations, sports clubs, they can't make censorship motions, they can't make elections to sports clubs, because they say there's no guarantee, and at the end of four days they bring us a decree here saying that they do complete the guarantees and that they can do it to agricultural organizations. And then we would also say: do we do this with a modification to assemble here? Who did it right? The reflection, the debate and the inconveniences or difficulties of making some telematic choices we already know, because they are widely discussed. And in the first place, I'd put myself at the top of everything, leaving behind the problems of mobile phone coverage, the internet that's out of the country and that sometimes when I hear a few speeches here, I feel like we're not where we live, we don't know where we live... And, therefore, the agricultural organisations, the farmers and the farmers, who all know that they are at every raccoon in our country, so there are a lot of places that have many difficulties connecting to the internet, but apart from that there is a matter of trust. If there are any difficulties when there is a physical urn, that everyone sees it, so, here they guarantee... And here's where I say: is there any doubt in the agricultural sector? Yes, there are doubts. Yes, there are doubts, because I also spoke to those who were at the Agricultural Table and said: "And as you will do, to ensure that there is no sabotage? What will be the data system to ensure that there is no trace of the person who voted what voted? "So, I don't know about this government, it will already prepare a computer system. So, I'm saying, listen, I think it's a very important issue, it's the most important issue that's going to be going to organizations every five years. It's about the democracy party. And it turns out we're settling here by the back door, in pre-electoral period and with a meeting of the Agrarian Taula where there were two agrarian organizations, and the federation of cooperatives... What are we talking about? I think you didn't appreciate the importance of the change you were making. And why don't we do it in Parliament elections, that? If so good system is, with so many guarantees you have... Therefore, we do not understand, as we do not understand how such an important subject was not made a call to explain to us what had been working on this line. We don't understand, and that's not to say that this is a land organization issue, because, if not, it wasn't going to be discussed here. And if they wanted our support, if they wanted it, then they would have said it before. And let me also ask for the rest of the political formations. I don't know... each one will do what he thinks he has to do, but I think that's not what they do, and so if the opposition groups' companies make it easier for them to do that, so no problem. But I think it would be good to ask the whole of the agricultural sector which is its opinion, it would be good to ask if these are the priorities they have, and obviously, and on the basis of that, then we would see..., make a decision. And that's not the priority, and that doesn't give the guarantees that we all need to demand. So for us, it's important. The agricultural sector has doubts, and since we have opened the decree of representation of the agricultural elections, so that we do not change the whole decree, many aspects of the decree that could also be modified and improved, to improve the elections, to improve the representation, to improve the election system. Oh, no, not that. Not that, huh? 2014 we made a cosmetic change that brought some unfortunate consequences; today we make a cosmetic change that we will see soon what happens. And who benefits from this? You're obvious, you're obvious. I think Companion Francisco has made that very clear. Here there are people who will leave with better conditions to get better results in these elections. We'll see what time you tell us. And, therefore, more than encouraging plurality and, therefore, there is more representation, so it seems that in the end we make decisions that each time they restrict this plurality more. I think that we here whenever there was a very clear measure that went in favor of the sector we were here and we picked it up, say what the party said, one, the other, I don't know what. If it was a good measure for the sector, we picked it up. And this is not a claimed measure or the claimed measure for the sector joint. And, besides, the procedure doesn't seem as good to us as it did. We have already said, the company has already said: listen, problems and doubts about the secret of voting, the authenticity, whether there is an informational attack, the manipulation or not of the results, as it will do... We can't be, today, not knowing what the program will be, how these guarantees will be given, which will go to areas where there is no coverage, so much that there are many places of attendance. We must remember that in the elections there are already many points of physical voting, many points of physical voting. Therefore, we would be more in favour of looking, with physical voting points, doing more, still, or looking for doing it with two days. Therefore, our day: what do we understand that was the priority for us at these times? We have said this many times: we believe that here we should be debating between a battery of measures to give support to the sector and to those who are about to fold; to put money on the table or to claim it from the Government of the State or the European Union. We do not understand why, for example, there has been no claim for the advance of direct CAP aid, as other autonomous communities have done, and that today they may already be receiving these direct aid, because a lot of them depend... They don't pay them anymore, bills, and that everyone knows, I don't think we remember here. So why don't we do this management? Or why we don't add to the €7,000 per farm aid that the European Union has approved that the states and autonomous communities can approve €7,000 per farm direct aid to farmers to fight the Covid crisis. Why didn't we do it? Or why don't we go to the meetings of the ministry, even though it is to say: "I've done very badly. We want more money. Why don't we do that, why don't we? In short, we have claimed this and we are also bringing it here today, because we do not want to vote on a specific issue that seems to have nothing to do with the rest of the issues, and that the organisations would also believe that they are complaining. Therefore, we will vote that no to the validation of this decree, for lack of consensus, for lack of debate, because we are convinced, fully convinced, that there are other priorities that are not endorsed and because they do not give the necessary guarantees so that they can make some telematic elections, which are the most important act that the organizations and the agricultural sector have for the past five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the Member of Parliament Marc Parés, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.143.0	Well, thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. The government brings us to the plenary a decree to amend Law 17/2014, which is representative of the agricultural professional organisations; and it does so with a text already closed, in which the parliamentary groups, as has already been said, have not been able to intervene and where we have not been able to listen in their parliament to the different agricultural organisations, which are directly affected by this decree. They argue the urgency for the fact that until the elections are called every five years and the later elections were the year 2016, at the fever, so it would be this fever to call elections. So, four months from now. And the pandemic we're going through, they say, forces us to predict electronic voting mechanisms. That's the argument, isn't it? Apparently, this is a reasonable argument and obviously we can share. As well, it is also true that we have seen elections from the pandemic, such as the Galician elections or the Basque elections, which have been carried out in full face-to-face. And, in fact, certainly just before the agrarian elections that we are talking about, so we will have Catalonia, on the 14th of February, an electoral process in which, again, it will be fully face-to-face and without a telematic vote. In the same way, it is also true that in the decree that you bring here today the door opens to the electronic vote in the elections, but always with the ability of face points of support for the duration of this electronic vote, and that, therefore, the practice will not be one hundred per cent a telematic or remote process, but it will be possible to continue producing the electronic vote, but in face to face points of support. Which we actually share, because it's not like that, so we can't guarantee the full participation of all the electoral centres, taking into account the difficulties of connectivity that exist in the agricultural world. But, in any case, what makes manifest is that neither the context nor the proposed solution just responds to the urgency that you argue in your motius exposure, directly linked to the pandemic situation. That said, our parliamentary group is fully in favour of the introduction of electronic mechanisms for democratic participation, already mechanisms of deliberation, purpose mechanisms or, as proposed in this decree, mechanisms, electoral tools that allow us to carry out voting in an electronic way. And it seems to us that we are also taking advantage of the situation of the pandemic crisis that we are experiencing in order to incorporate changes, to make advances, to make passages that allow us to move forward in this model of democracy, as in other questions we also believe that it is good to take advantage of the crisis situation in order to take steps that may otherwise be much harder to achieve in the long term. And in this sense, it seems to us that today's decree to Ple can be innovative, it can be pioneering, and we therefore believe that it is an element to consider in order to begin to modify some of these questions and move forward, starting with this sector, but they can think about moving forward in other sectors. That is why our group will facilitate the approval of this decree and therefore have our support to do so. But this is not to say that we believe that there is a series of elements in the decree, of issues that we believe are not well resolved or that could have been resolved better. The first one, and it was said before, is in shape. That is to say, we believe that we should have had a greater consensus with the agricultural organizations and for which we could know firsthand, because we have spoken with all of them, so they have shown great satisfaction with this decree. Some have told us that it was a minimum agreement and others have shown their opposition. Therefore, we believe that we should work with more time to reach a greater consensus with the agricultural organisations and we believe that we should also do so in your Parliament. In any case, this also brings me to a_second element, which I think translates to the length of the writing of the entire decree, which is that it is known that it is a decree that has been made with a certain haste and haste. And then when you read the article and you say that there are things that aren't well-fitted, that aren't very clear or that aren't well-solved. Obviously, we agree with all the guarantees that are listed in the decree in the form of principles, as it could not otherwise be, right? We are talking about freedom of vote, its secret character, secure identification, unalterability, transparency, verification, audit, therefore, criteria, principles that we share and that, obviously, the law should make it clear that if it introduces the electronic voting system, these must be the criteria to be fulfilled. However, not all criteria are developed in the law's drafting; some are left open and at the hands of the government to complete them, and we trust that this will be done, and, in a different way, in other questions, so it may be too much of the level of achievement to which it comes in the law's drafting. The decree begins by saying that the call can determine that the vote is only for the electronic voting system. Therefore, it may or may not be, but in any case it does not contemplate the law the mixed face and electronic system, which we understand might have been a good solution. Even though it is true, as I have already expressed, that it does contemplate remote electronic voting and electronic voting in face points distributed throughout the territory. But perhaps there were other solutions which could have been explored or which were probably explored and discarded, but which, in any case, were not shared with the parliamentary groups of this chamber. After, we hear, the writing of some articles, that there will only be a day of remote voting and two days of assisted voting at face points, in case you opt for voting for the electronic system, right? , a day of remote voting, two days of assisted voting, the first of which is shared, and setting a maximum of face points, 250 on the first day, 75 on the second day. As I said, we don't think the law needs to collect this limitation either, because at the end of the day there's a limitation on the number of points and some concretes also in the number of days, that they are collected by the law, and that maybe it could have been more flexible to be able to adapt it according to the characteristics of each electoral process, huh? And we think that, in any case, we should talk about a minimum of assisted voting points and not a maximum of what he puts at us, as I said, is a limit. We also do not know, on the other hand, what will be the secure identification mechanism, the recount mechanism that will offer the guarantees that we have already commented on, or how it will ensure that all the voters can exercise their right to vote without problems. And all of this, given that the system that is set up works well, does not fall and does not fall into the vote, which we believe would also have been expected. But anyway, I'm making all these assumptions, so there's a series of questions that are left open. In any case, we do not doubt that the government will guarantee all these questions, but we are extremely concerned that the introduction of the new system hastened, right? , so it can cause a significant fall in participation. Let's hope it's not that way, and in any case, so let's see what's going on, and let's hope we're wrong, and, in fact, let's hope that all the opposite happens. That is to say, we understand that the introduction of an electronic system must be able to encourage participation, and therefore so much good really remains so and participation will increase as a result of the introduction of the electronic voting system. But the fact of making it rush and with a few questions solved makes us think that maybe it won't end up like this. Anyway, so, we'll see about that. But we do think it's important, don't we? , or the doubt arises as to whether this sector actually takes into account the Internet connectivity situation we have in our country, right? , the reality of lack of connectivity that we still have today at the conjunct of the territory, and especially in rural areas, so it does make us question whether this is really the sector for which the electronic voting system was to begin to be deployed. And I'm done with a little thought, huh? We believe that the electoral system of the agricultural organizations, regulated in the law of 2014, has various elements that it would be useful to review and update – some of which have already been mentioned – starting, as it was also said, by the display of representativeness, which is 15_per_cent, which seems to me to be an authentic barbarity, right? I mean, you have to get a 15-percent result so you can get representation, right? These and other questions we think should be reviewed. And this fact, in addition to the precipitation that he had commented on before and the lack of dialogue with parliamentary groups, makes our group necessary to process as a bill of law this decree in order to be able to listen in its parliament to the different views and to be able to participate in it as parliamentary groups. In fact, at the length of this legislature, in the Committee on Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, we have experienced different legislative initiatives where we have been able to listen to all the actors in the sector – the talk of the Law of Agricultural Spaces or the Law of Wine – and where all the groups of the chamber we have shown and demonstrated our predisposition to the dialect, to agree, to the consensus, and have ended up coming out, therefore, two laws with a broad consensus fruit of this process. We understand that in this case, therefore, we should also have followed this procedure, that we could have done the same, and therefore, we put them in place to do it as the bill does. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the Member of Parliament, Nattalia Sánchez, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.145.0	Good morning to all; good morning, Counselor. For our part, more than anything else to add; the parliamentary groups that have preceded me have asked the questions on the table. Obviously, for the debate that we have, that there is a problem, that there is a symptom that not all agricultural organizations seem to agree; obviously, not all parliamentary groups. We believe that, in terms of participation and democratisation and updating of voting systems, in this case, of organisations and elections to agricultural organisations, it is a good idea to open this debate in a context where we have a health crisis, where every week a new situation, a new regulation, a new reality affects us, and affects us in everyday life; also when it comes to voting. I say it now: we will give support to it, but we also consider and want to make manifest that for us it is not the priority – it is already said – do it this way and do it in such an ambiguous way. The decree that you present today, counsel, is a very open and emptied decree, with a lot of doubts, and that does not leave consolidated..., has no guarantees, from our point of view. I guess then, then, they'll make regulations... that's to say, that this is going to unfold and it's going to materialize, that's obvious. Because with that, I, if you formed part of the sector... what's now on the table wouldn't agree. It is full of ambiguity, full of space..., "it will be possible to do... It is to say, in the same text, the use of words, verbs, it is..., basically, what today is decided is that it will be able to vote electronically. Therefore, counsel, I believe that it is an insufficient and little strict and little guaranteed decree, and that from here all the doubts that have arisen on the part of the parliamentary groups are lacking. So, this... I think they're self-criticizing from the department. We haven't worked well on this decree. Any person... As you know, they are part of political organizations, they know perfectly well about the importance of guarantees in the processes of participation and internal democratisation of organizations, whether they are agricultural, political or sports. And this decree is an insufficient, poorly done and ambiguous decree, we believe ourselves. Why? Because it was easier simply to say: "We agreed that they will be electronic. 'Cause all the rest of it is that it's almost okay, I explain, huh? That is to say, okay, we accept – and we, therefore, would vote yes – that participation, and therefore elections in the agricultural organisations are done in an electronic and telematic way. We believe that you have virtues to do so; we believe that it can help increase participation in a certain way. Now, let's assume that the criticisms that are coming up are well-founded, because the text, I insist, is insufficient. The objective must be to increase participation, increase plurality. We're also surprised. I don't know if we're in time, usually, because the vote is going to be late, but they're going to push the door to change the issue of the participation shield – they had an opportunity to do so – you helped build consensus in this room. We could have an absolute yes of all the members... of all the parliamentary groups, and they don't have it because, as they said, they didn't raise the phone to talk to us. Give guarantees for what it does to telematics and IT tools and to the technological needs that will have the challenge that will be found in the first quarter of the year you see; ensure that there is a good support for public workers for all people who have to vote; ensure that the great people out there can overcome the digital challenges they have. We understand that increasing face votes to two days must help to compensate for these difficulties – we already read this – but it must be that they deploy much more and give many more explanations. I'm done. We are also the parent, as the Member of the PSC said before, who is not the priority of the agricultural sector. This week, the main customer and one of the industry's main entrances, especially the rower, which is the bar and restaurant fence, have been blocked for need. Counselor, he hasn't even spoken; there's a great deal of concern. The main concern of the agricultural sector is not how elections will be made. This, if in any case – and let's macabar, please, president – is the concern of some sectors of agricultural organizations, but the main concern and the main priority and urgency to make decrees in any case was this. And we're worried that the councilwoman hasn't talked about this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.146.0	You're out of here, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.147.0	... the economic needs of the sector, as a result of measures affecting the catering and hospitality sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the deputy Alejandro Fernàndez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.149.0	Thank you very much. Well, one of the worst times a government can have – more, ethically reprehensible – is to take advantage of the pandemic to initiate democratic reforms that are dubiously democratic and, above all, that clearly limit the ability to participate and represent a sector in concrete terms. So what's commonly said is, "Take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, which is basically what you do here. There have been some arguments, I fully share what the Lords Ordeig and Dominguez have said, as well as some interventions from the rest of the spokesman. I will raise five or six questions that justify our vote against, and they are very simple questions, not to go into the technical detail that has been addressed in previous interventions, but that in the end these answers are absolutely indisputable. Will it be easier or harder to participate in it? Obviously, it's harder. Does it benefit all agricultural entities or just some? Obviously, just a few, they're the ones who haven't complained, the rest have complained bitterly. Are you urgent? Of course not. Is this a priority for the sector? No, no, In fact, they have asked for many other things that have nothing to do with what you present today. Have you agreed with the sector? Obviously, from the past, no. Therefore, in these conditions where all the essential answers to the questions are negative, we are obliged to vote against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, the Member of Parliament Irene Fornós, of the Republican Parliamentary Group, has the words. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.151.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Vice President. Before I begin my intervention – counselor, also greet her – I would not want to follow without adding myself today to the support shows that have already been shown today in this Chamber to the members of the Bureau, judged and condemned in a totally unjust manner. And to denounce from this House that Members, in this sense, also suffer this repression and that if we see our main right violated, which is the right to debate. And neither would she want to follow, obviously, without remembering today also the president of this Parliament, President Carme Forcadell, also sentenced to eleven years in prison to allow, precisely, what we are doing here, which is the parliamentary debate. That said, well, a lot of what I've been told before... today there's been a lot of opinions, all of them respectable. The counselor gave us an exhibition of what is the validation of this decree that is being asked today. Today we are here to validate the Decree Illi 32/2020 of 22 September, for which the Law 17/2014, of 23 December, of representativeness to the agricultural professional organizations is amended. A legislative amendment to the effect that the proper agricultural elections can be carried out by electronic voting, for which reason this amendment of the law that we have commented regulates them to introduce this mode of voting by telematics. Elections which, according to their own electoral calendar, are expected to take place during the first quarter of 2021 and which now, in keeping with the current situation of pandemic, as has also been mentioned, is also about the need to provide the greatest legal guarantee to all people. And we think that this telematic vote can be done, in both physical and legal people, as well as the need to implement the use of electronic media in all areas of our society. By means of this decree, it will be possible to vote electronically in elections in order to determine, as we have said, the representativeness of agricultural professional organisations. I would like to insist on the legitimacy of this democratic representation, which is key to the maximum consensus and impetus of agricultural policies, and to deal with the demands to correct structural problems, to achieve fair and balanced prices between distributors and final prices, to fight for an equitable and sustainable common agricultural policy; to work together to put into value the work and its importance in the economic, social and environmental fields, and to take into account all the territorial specificities among many other priorities and emergencies in the primary sector. The implementation of universal electronic voting will therefore ensure the effectiveness of the right to vote, facilitate participation and improve the management process and the accounting of votes. And there will be a reduction in the economic costs associated with the electoral process and to the benefit, therefore, of the environment. The electorate will be able to vote remotely from anywhere or in the face points that will also be enabled. And we think they're planning on time enough so that this can be possible, as we said, when they play the elections, which is the first quarter of 2021. Ensure assistance and follow-up for all pages, branches and people dedicated to forestry activities who are believed in these elections. And that is why, as has also been mentioned, there will also be face-to-face voting points for power, also, obviously, therefore, to ensure that those people who, for whatever reason, do not have or cannot have these media, can also go to a physical place, as they have always done. Obviously, paper, they won't find it, but I think we all agree that we are also the generation that we have to, little by little, end up with paper use and go implementing ourselves into the digital age. We want to remember and also let it be clear that the result of the republican governance is this decree, for so much that now you are trying to say that no, yes you have agreed, that you have spoken. Precisely, these elections give place to the representation of these organisations that participate and work in many of the proposals that arrive here in Parliament, the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food. Since the Republican Group we value this amendment of the law very positively, not only because we believe it will facilitate participation, but also because modernity and close to the digital tools which, today, are essential for any sector, and in this sense, we consider this agreement with the organizations to be a step further forward. I wouldn't want to finish my intervention either without listening to the ones you preceded me, making some point. I always know that, I think, the Member who claims that, from agriculture, Parliament, is talking a little bit. And when it's spoken, precisely, it's because you're afraid of the government or because you're carrying them, many times, a servant. In any case, many things have been said today, not just in relation to this amendment of the decree, that what is trying to do the telematic vote, but other things in the law. And I would like to remind you that, as a minimum, I am in this legislature, of some things that some think may not be correct in this law, I have not felt any parliamentary group – at least in this legislature – that has come here to expose them. It's about a 15_per_cent streetlight, a streetlight that precisely calls, in this case, Madrid, and it's about that if the Department of Agriculture, in these moments of pandemic that we are living, is not doing all the things that the sector really needs. The department has always been on the side of the sector, not just claiming and helping them, has it? , this consumption that they have to make of the proximity product, that in case of pandemic they have also seen, and they have also suffered when they have seen when the restaurants have closed, but would also want to remember that it was certainly one of the first departments that went out to announce the 3,000_million euros, right? , which invested in different axes. That said, I would like to ask the rest of the groups... I thank, in this case, for example, that it is vulgar to give this support by some parliamentary groups. I think this is the way, to take on what participation will be lower I think is not correct, among all we have to do this follow-up. And I'd also like to do another thought. Many times we talk about the generational replete of young people, surely young people who, today, may not participate in so many elections, who are also criticized, precisely because they have to go to a face-to-face vote. We talk a lot of times that we want the agricultural world and the rural world to be digitized, and I think this is a statement of the government's intentions, and in this case the Department of Agriculture, to take this step forward, and I think I don't want to take advantage of this opportunity, anyway, I think it would be wrong. And in this sense, so I'm also pleased that there are groups that see it so that the decree pulls forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.152.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, has the word the deputy Marc Solsona, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.153.0	Well, good morning to everyone and everyone. Honourable Counselor, deputies and deputies, good day to everyone. I also want to start this intervention first with three dates. First, the Dilluns, when it was made public the judgment that wrongly condemned apart from the previous Bureau of this Parliament of Catalonia formed for Lluís Coromines, for the company and friend of the deputy, Lluís Guinó ; the Anna Simó and also the deputy Ramona Barrufet, for having facilitated the dialogue and debate in this chamber, our parliamentary group wanted to make public that we denounce..., we want to make public our commitment to the preservation of the sovereignty of this Parliament of Catalonia. Also this morning we have known the acquittal of Major Trapero, Pere Sole, César Puig, the intendant Laplana, and we can say that, to end, from time to time, the reality is also necessary and that it is not possible to use the cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra to make politics. We understand, therefore, that these are two dates that we have to say today in your parliamentary office, but let me, counsel, say to another: one year ago the climate disaster that affected the municipalities of the Pla d'Urgell and Garrigues districts is complete. This catastrophe caused torrential plugs, which in some cases exceeded 200_litres_per_metre_square, and caused heavy damage to municipal installations, urban nuclei, on various paths where there were very serious impacts. Allow me also, therefore, here, also, a recognition to the mayors, mayors, veins and victims who suffered the consequences of the destruction of this fact that produced, logically, very many lost. Let's get to today's theme. Allow 'to speak of the decree, of this modification of representativeness of the professional organizations agrarians, and allow 'to ask a question to the area. It did not surprise me that this decree envisaged the modification in the terms of the electronic vote, it would have surprised me that it had taken advantage of the modification of this decree for other questions that were not, for example, this one. Because if there is to be a decree of urgent measures for the sector, there is to be a decree of urgent measures for the sector to deal with the effects of the Covid. And it would be another decree, but if they present this decree, it doesn't surprise me to see this change. Because it's also good that we can talk and scale things up. Because if someone feels this debate, we could think, what are we talking about? How many people are affected? And here's a dramatic sifra. We're talking about this modification affecting a hundred, that the last hundred of 2016 was a hundred about 26,000 people. I'm back to saying, dramatic: 26,000 people. So much good we're saying a lot more than a thousand people, huh? But we are saying that we are making a change with an object that is that people can vote telematically with a hundred objects five years ago of 26,000 people, of whom 14,016 voted. So god: is it possible to articulate a telematic, territorial, mixed, face-to-face and home voting system for this hundred objects of about 26,000/30 000 people? Yes, it's possible, please! Yeah, it's possible, and we all know it. Another thing is that he wants to see or he wants to look for more or less, let's say, difficulties at the time of being able to make a telematic vote, massive, for millions of people. But at the sectoral level it is possible, as it is in other places. So what I would say is that, beyond what the speech or the report would be, of course, if we sit down to the data, we pose it to its magnitude, perhaps it does understand in a different way which is the intention of the Department of Agriculture. And I'm not worth what we don't like or don't trust, it's that it doesn't like or dislike. That's what he said: we, as parliamentarians, I think we have to keep the obligation that we have to trust in institutions, and also in the government. And if, for political reasons, we don't want to trust it, let's trust the public service. Clearly, it is only, if from here, from here, from this place is questioning the trust in the institutions of our own, in the departments and in the public service, that little we will do, neither telematically nor physically nor in paper. And, therefore, here I think that this argument of not trusting is perilous or that this is all part of a conxorx and a conspiracy of second-five unions towards other unions. I can hear the doubts that can generate, I can hear, let's say, the legitimate aspirations of everyone to be able to access the table, the representativeness; I share and have many conversations with unions that are not represented in the table, but this does not have to lead me to the derivative of, wanting to defend them, questioning the major. And, so, I believe, I'm asking for a little too, in this sense, responsibility, huh? The concept of present and future in the agrarian world is "rural smart". It's the concept of trying to make land like Lleida's, where, by the way, there are more voters in the agricultural elections, can be converted into an agrodigital hub. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, We are saying that we are applying drones to look, to watch, to keep the plots, to the systems of reg; housekeeping, surveillance of farms. We are paying from the mobile phone, we are buying for the mobile phone; there must be some guarantee of the system, the trust of the people, in order to be able to get the money paid, buying, managing, vigilant, or even asking for visits or concertations of previous cities for different things of salvation or for vital themes. Therefore, if we are going with this trend, I think that the agricultural sector, too often stigmatized by a concept of non-modernity, of traditionality, of not inn a day, has an opportunity, with these magnitudes..., that if we possess, of these 26,000 people who are ashes, who can go to vote..., to try to take a step forward and destigmatize, let us say, also the sector. And here we also have an opportunity. Beyond the doubts that may be suggested. Obviously, as more systems could complement the same day, fantastically. If we could make a mixed system, surely it would be better than just a digital one; if we could do it, apart from the mixed..., we could vote for it for a week, possibly... There will always be a way to say that you can make things different or that you can make things better. All respectable. But in any case, given time and that we are in the 21st century, which coincides with the pandemic issue, which is essential at the time of being able to raise this type of change, I think that, as long as we talk about democracy, we should not vote, because in the end it is voting, and we vote telematically. What happens is that here, when it is talking here to the Parliament of Catalonia to vote telematically, of course, all the fantasies come to us. And it seems to us that sometimes we also take advantage of this issue that we can't vote on it all telematically, that in the end only the Parliament of Catalonia is left to be able to vote according to what telematically. And, then, of course, here is the beginning of the doubts and the tightening of the own seams, sometimes, also of the own internal democracy of the different parties or parliamentary groups. We must see, therefore, and we cannot ignore it, that we have a demography, in which the agrarian world would be, where only 3,7_percent of the people who are dedicated to the camp are under thirty-five years old. This is a reality according to, for example, Eurostat, and they say, for example, that more than 33_per_cent are older than sixty-five years. And that a 22_per_cent is moving between fifty-five and sixty-four years. And it's also true, it's logical that in the agricultural world we don't have the network, let's just say, of communications or connectivity that we want to have. But, I say again, we are talking about ensuring access to the vote by telematics of a population that dramatically only acquits to these few thousands of people; so that they can manage, accompany, follow up, for everything, for the same unions, for the same department, for themselves, let's say, organizations. That once the duets have been generated here, I understand that the department also grabs the glove, so, these uncertainties, as you can convey, because when you really get how you develop these choices, you can collect these duets and these uncertainties. Therefore, we have to try, therefore, that the agricultural sector sees this decree, this modification for the pandemic, an opportunity to make the... – this is this complicated word –, not to stigmatize what the sector would be, to modernise, to finally be able to bring to light what the sector, our production sector, would also be. And then what we can't do is cheat on the lonely: if we say that the present and the future of the sector goes through this combination, through the application of this digital revolution, this agrodigital theme, this concept of "rural smart", this theme of being one of these places in which we experience, evolve, opt for, and ultimately compete through technological means, we also understand that it is a good opportunity, for, as I say on conditionality also the decree, which can, therefore, realize this telematic vote, and also guaranteeing the presence. And as it is a matter for which you also see trust, to reaffirm that from our parliamentary group we trust this institution, we trust the Government and we trust our public officials, who are ultimately the ones to ensure that this process is done with all the guarantees. And, also, that in this process that I don't see well I have all the rights to be able to make complaints that they touch because they've... because it's the system that we've been equipped with. So, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.154.0	Thank you, Congressman. This is the end of the order of the day, so I'm guessing that the vote on the validation of Decree 32/2020 will be this late, together with the rest of the votes, once the eighth point of the order of the day has been substantiated. [[Pause.]] [[Asking the Government about presuppositional priorities]] [[300-00316/12]] We now turn to the agenda item, which is the question to the Government on the presuppositional priorities, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose the inquiry, the honourable Member Maria Sirvent has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.155.0	Good morning. We want to begin our inquiry by showing support for the university program and defending this right to guarantee public and quality education, which today seems more than a right, a privilege. Counselor, good morning. The decisions we take today know that they will have a direct impact on the lives of thousands of people. New Barris: during the pandemic peak recorded more than twice as many cases as the district of Sarrià - Sant Gervasi. The direct relationship between the lowest income and a higher number of Covid-19 cases is irrefutable. This pandemic is falling more cruelly on our country. Determining factors: one count per hour. Catalonia is kept first in the trist ranquing of denunciations. A 22,9_percent of the Spanish state's denunciations is produced in Catalonia. The big tenors, the mega-owners accumulate more than 29,000 empty floors. There are families on the street, young people spend 60_percent of their low wages to pay housing. A housing park that does not reach 2_per_cent. The last data on the poverty risk rate published in Idescat affects 21.3_percent of the population; it is the highest rate since we have this data, higher than the year 2010 in the midst of the economic crisis. If we look at people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, at women and at younger age groups, this percentage goes up to 27,5 and 31,2_per_cent. According to the data of the Idescat, since 2016 there is a trend to the high percentage of people who are in a situation of severe material deprivation. What's this? This is the indicator that shows us the percentage of people who can't keep the house warm, a healthy diet or pay the logger bills. The poor wage earner, people who work but who cannot arrive at the end of the month, has not stopped growing. Since 2011, and according to the data of the last Idescat, it is 14.4_per_cent. Higher than in the economic crisis of 2008. I will only quote two more data, because I think they are important: life expectancy has not stopped falling since 2013 and the percentage of population from four to fourteen years with mental health problems has increased considerably over the last few years. Counselor, social pain and poor. Campaigns to test PCRs that many do not come to, can not risk giving positive: they have to lose the job, they have to pay the quota of autonomes and they cannot afford to'saturate; they have to raise the blind of their business while others will no longer push it. Others have gone on to increase the rate of the weather. Many work in an irregular situation. Menystention of the working conditions of people working in essential sectors, such as the socio-health sector, a sector that has proved to be more important than ever in the midst of the pandemic. Impossible confinements because crises are diverse. During these three years of government, since the Conselleria d'Economia has incarnated, you, perfectly, the profile of the grey man of the technocracy of the troika, firm defender of the private interests in our country. And, Mr. Aragones, you know what? All this is not because of the pragmatism that you preach taking into account the difficulty of the situation or the lack of skills or the fiscal deficit; the main problem is that this is your school, your bet for a devastating neoliberalism of lives, which sometimes fades and stores with republican rhetoric. A very clear example is the Aragonese law, a law that dropped social movements based on organization, strength and resistance before the privatization of public services. Why is it that a government that says it promotes anti-Florentine law, when we are in the middle of a health emergency, with an emergency contract, with contracts negotiated without publicity that can be held to say, decides to hold a contract to Railroad? EUR_million split at IBEX 35. What is going on in this country with the socio-educational care trade? What happens to certain corporations that are under the appearance of the What happened to the law of the social and solidary economy that limited this situation? Mr Aragonès, he is the candidate for the presidency of the IBEX 35 and the Godó Group. There are many people in your party who work every day in the territory and who defend the freedom of our people, but you have decided to follow the thread of continuity of which our country represents socio-vergency. Every day that passes with hydropower plants with fallen concessions is a victory of Endesa. A government to the service of "the Box, with Hard Rock, which lends money to the Criteria, the hosting of "the Box, while there are thousands of workers who have not yet charged the ERTO ; privatizations that are consolidated and multi-million-dollar enterprises that are registrered public money ; while thousands of workers go to the Food Bank. A model that didn't change. I will give you a very concrete example: health transport workers are on the loose, on the loose, because today there is a private management of this service, a service that is providing itself in a bad way, with certain working conditions of the workers that are unacceptable. This Parliament, with great consensus, approves a modification of the model, the reversal of privatization. What's the government doing? Scan this Parliament and scan social consensus. Mirin, this indiscriminate transfer of resources to the private sector, every public euro that ends in Serunion, Eulen, Sacyr or Serhs is not intended for sectors that are necessary and strategic, for a necessary, strategic and resilient economy. We need to plan the economy and are key instruments – we have said on various occasions – a public bank, industrial public participation, the transformation of goods into cooperatives, support for ethical finances and measures so that workers do not bear the cost of this transition. Counselor, we need vast majority, we need to generate consensus, we need to listen to everyone, we need to invest more in sanitation, research, education, housing, and economic planning, and less in security, in pharaoh projects like Hard Rock. We have to listen to the consensus that our society has, the pro-internalization movement, against the privatisations of public services has won the report. The most historical to the CEO of those who believe that private service management works worse, and it is not the voters of the CUP who say so: the Junts for Catalonia, the d'Esquerra, the PSC, the commons and the CUP; and, therefore, there is a broad social consensus. And, miri, we are ahead of an environmentally devastated planet, impoverished societies, economies that thunder, fractured greetings, a growth in the service of pacs, a pandemic: the Covid-19, which reflects the shadows of a global capitalism without soul, without ethics, without future. « Triple crisis: environmental, health care and economics, unequally harming humanity, stripping it of the frailties that are believed to be conjured, as at least in the West, and which starts to decide; cruïlla de camins... Thus begins Ivan Miró's article: « Full of route for an economy for life, of next publication to El Critic. Counselor, cruïlla de camins. As an antidote to barbarism, a path: public management services, public ownership and provision; a plural and transformative economy, oriented towards economic democracy and eco-social transition, which rises parallel to a global, economic and socio-economic crisis. This must be the cornerstone of our social and national construction process.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.156.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.157.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, thank you very much. Well, Congresswoman, I know it's hard, but her intervention was marked by the prejudices, the demagogic, the simplicity, and I think she tried to make a whole revolution, she tried to classify me into categories that I don't recognize; and, in any case, I'll try to answer some of the concerns you've made, but also explain what we're doing to the government. Miri, I'm starting with the references you've made to the clear correlation there is, to the connection there is between Covid-19 and the poor. And we've been there since the first day: the confinement wasn't the same for everyone. The previous situation that makes it easier for Covid-19 to be infected is not the same for everyone. There was someone who said that the virus does not understand territories, but surely they do, I add, they do understand social classes. And it's obvious that there are not the same possibilities to prevent the Covid-19 when there are three families that share a pea of eighty square meters and each family has a room. This, in our country, passes, passes much more often than many people think. It's not the same as being able to do the winging when you have a job, so, in the formal economy, with assurance, with contract, that not if you're in the informal economy, and, therefore, and you can find no income. We're absolutely aware of that. All you have to do is look at what is the distribution of the contagious, the cumulative incidence of the territories and compare it to the income, and it's absolute. But we have been acting, like the Government, respecting this, and, for example, we have pushed a measure of support lines for 30_million euros, precisely for those families that are not able to embrace a temporary disability, it is not clear that they are contracted for anyone, but that we know that they are working, working in the informal economy, working in the submerged economy, and that there may be a benefit that allows them to precisely embrace these resources in order to be able to do the right wing during the days that mark the healthcare authority. We have been fighting like the most, this government, because temporary incapacity is not only for those parents or legal guardians whose sons give Covid-19's position, but also those sons and daughters of whom they must also make in order to be close contact with Covid-19. And we've been fighting it, and we'll keep fighting it. And you know perfectly well that this doesn't depend on this government – we would already like this to fall on this government –, on the government of the State, and we will continue to work on it. We have therefore been facing an emergency situation with resources. This refers to the health and residential sector, in which we have allocated more than EUR 100 million of our resources precisely to facilitate, first of all, the individual protection measures; secondly, what is the organisation of residential centres in order to be able to do well with the aids and the treatment of possible cases of Covid-19; thirdly, a wage compensation in a sector where we know that job insecurity is one of the crimes we have, that we must be able to remove, and therefore that we must be able to increase the level of pay. We will adopt a new system of tariffs for this sector of compensation which must be directly linked to the wage increase of people working in a sector of the cures, which is a sector that is really precarious or that there are many cases of precariousness, and that we must contribute public resources and pressure to give it an answer. You have made reference to a lot of issues in your intervention, and you have made reference, among other things, to the situation of job insecurity, of difficulty in the personal expectations that so many people in this country have. Some inequalities that the global economic dynamic of the past few years has been consolidating and that we have undertaken to do everything in our hands to reverse, because we do not want an unequal country, because an unequal country, by far independent that it can be, will never be a free country, because it will not be until all its citizens are free. And that is why we have promoted measures such as Catalonia's reference minimum wage, which, obviously, with the situation of Covid-19, with a reassignment of presupposed resources to the emergence has been altered, but we also continue to persist in this sense. And we have pushed for measures, and we will continue to push them: measures of support to the autonomes. And we'll do it with this plan of work that we can approve the next few weeks and explain it conveniently. What ambits? In the area of housing emergence. The end of the suspension of the terms in the matter of denunciations in the judicial sphere is prompting us, at these times, and we must be able to give it an answer. And the answer, obviously, has to come from a change in the criteria that the judicial authorities serve when ordering a launch – imagine's the word, which is extremely harsh, is the legally correct one: « the launch, the launch of people, no? So precisely, in order to avoid this, I need to change the criteria in the execution of the sentences, but I need to put a lot more resources and, therefore, some measures of shock in the area of housing emergence, in the area of autonomies. Because you've talked about statistics, but we all know that precisely one of the collections that is easier to move from a survival situation to a poor situation that survives is the collection of autonomes. And that's it. It is, in fact, the one with a higher percentage, because under the figure of the autonomies, in many cases, there are figures of real dependence on a company or of very precariousness of certain sectors. Therefore, we are very clear that resources must also be provided here. But we would be wrong if we focused on measures of emergence and did not enter into structural measures, and structural measures must be a change in the productive structure of this country, which makes a clear bet for those sectors that bring added value, which allow us to move from an economy that emerges, at the end of the crisis, on the shoulders of workers with low wages, freezing low wages, to an economy in which there is a higher wage. It's absolutely imperative. And this is only achieved with added value, increasing productivity by not more hours of work, but by working better and the public sector here, to drive innovation, to drive projects with public participation, with public direction, is absolutely essential. And that's why we've marked ourselves as strategic to the European Reactivation Fund. And we have incorporated it into the Pla of the Government of Catalonia for economic recovery and social protection, because we need to advance precisely to these areas of added value, with axes such as the economy for life, and to situate here the agro-food field, the realm of cures, the realm of biomedical research, the realm of salvation. Secondly, the whole field of digitisation, making digitisation not only an opportunity for large companies, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises that do not feel like the ICT sector, can greatly improve their productivity and the costs that lie ahead in this area can go to a better remuneration of workers and workers. Thirdly, a fair transition in the energy and the economic sphere, because the transition has to be fair because it can reach everyone, because it cannot go over the spaces of the usual, that are already patenting precariousness, that over those who have to carry a good share of the costs of an energy transition. And this only compensates – it only compensates – from the point of view of public intervention, of public resources. And, fourthly, the knowledge society, a knowledge society that is not only to be based on a powerful search and technology transfer system, because if not the technology transfer is privatized, but also precisely on a system of access to university. We have lowered university taxes by 30_per_cent; we have to keep moving on this path. We have put 20 million, to universities, extraordinary apart from the premise, to ensure the sustainability of universities at a time of pandemic, and we will follow it and we will follow it. Therefore, this structural change is the hem to face. I think you should look at everything that says good part of the employer and good part of those who defend the interests of the big corporations on which this government decides. So, I'm sorry, I can't be a neo-liberal and a communist who's tax-killing all over the country; both things are impossible now. And probably not one thing or the other, but it's the time for expansionary policies, it's the time for redistribution of wealth, it's the time to keep betting on the production of wealth, to be able to redistribute it, and it's the time to keep betting on policies like we're doing. I hope that now we have the opportunity to go deeper into this, more than rescue hits from the past year, like a law of contracts that you know the half of what they say is their invention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.158.0	Thank you, Vice-President, for making the reply has a new turn on the Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.159.0	Counselor, when you say that half of what we're talking about is our invention, I assume that you're also referring to all those social collections and movements that have worked and that have worked across the territory, and that have dedicated themselves to putting up with the law that privatises this legislature that popularly bears its name. That, in the end, is not being humiliated and not listening to people. You told me about the economic and social recovery plan and the European foundations. So, look, I read it to myself, the truth, I've been giving it a few times, on this side, to these twenty projects that have been sent to the European Commission, which, of course, have not presented to this Parliament, have required this Parliament as they have done throughout the legislature. But, look, that you did not present it to this Parliament, perhaps you have a step to take, but that you today are talking about "economy for life, based on theoretic markers of those who defend the social and solidary economy, who have translated these theoristic markers into certain projects of this economic recovery plan for after putting their measures, is not a waste. You will have to listen to the vast fabric of our country that today has proved to be the protagonist of a resilient economy, which has resisted the pandemic and which, moreover, is produced and is generating projects in favour of the community and in favour of the common good. But you don't, you've surrounded yourself with experts on some boards to make a plan that you didn't agree with anyone else but yourself. And that's what "socio-virgency" represents, and that's why I said it, because you're walking and doing it without consensus with the rest, without talking to anyone. And, besides, he talks about transformation. You've told us a few measures. And I won't deny it: you can be a very good manager, the gray man of the troika who painted it before, but where is the transformation? Where is the conversion of these sectors that are now a monoculture, such as the tourism sector, the construction sector or the automotive sector? Where is the internalisation plan for services and the depriving of certain services in our country? Did you talk about residences, and the model change? It is to say, to manage EPIs, to organize the activity, but still follows Eulen or Sacyr behind the management of these residences. Where's this model change, this transformation? We don't see it, we don't find it, and therefore we are still defending today that what is needed is a transformation, changes that are radical and necessary. And when you talk to me about redistribution of wealth or taxing people, we've made proposals, we've made proposals to redistribute wealth, that affect 4_percent of the richest people in this country, and they said no. We have made proposals to modify the asset tax, the inheritance tax, to redistribute the wealth, and we find ourselves with its non-constant. And, therefore, today we come to tell you that there is a radical redistribution of economic resources and because there is a radical redistribution of economic resources, we need to go further. And to go further, there must also be a presuppositional reversion. And you said to us a few months ago, when there was still no pandemic: "These are the resources that there are; they are the margin with which we have to move with the assumptions. Those 1,800-1,900 million euros. Today there is already an allocation for the Covid of 5,000_million euros to the assumptions, which have had to be spent more to deal with the situation of health emergency that we are living today. And if at that time, when you told us that we could not skip the goals of stabilization, we could have had these 5,000_million euros, and we could have allocated them to public health, education, research, and so on, perhaps we would have arrived at this situation today, we would have reached a health emergency situation that was compounded by various crises with much greater capacity to deal with it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, again, the vice president has the word. The Vice-President of the Government and Economic and Finance Adviser Thank you. I think we should make this debate honestly and not take refuge in false topics, the truth. What we decide in this Parliament is to be paid; if we decide to donate a grant, it is to be paid. And, therefore, if he doesn't have the money, he won't be able to pay. Point, that's it. Which is exactly why we've been asking? We've been asking that the presupposition targets be suspended. We started asking for it in April. It's all just arrived now. And from here, have the financing to be able to finance the new policies. Because there's one worse thing that makes you help insufficient, that's what we can sometimes only do, that's promise bigger help and that people late to collect them. Because that, when you get to pay, there's nothing left to subsidize, to donate support. Therefore, I think that this is a premise, that is, the decisions that we take must have practical effects; rhetoric is free, it does not generate opportunity cost. Politics, public policies and decisions always generate opportunity. And the resources that are allocated to one environment cannot be allocated to another. And, therefore, I always, and my performance has always been presided over by this: to be able to look back in the face at the people who, at a certain point, is a measure of shock, who get the resources, who get the services. And accepting the limits to overcome them, always, as we did with the Catalan presupposition law, which we have repealed, which we have repealed, not now, we have repealed 2017. As we are also doing with all oversight in the field of public services. When you want, let's go back to the public service. But when we are in the market where we are and do not see it possible at short notice, in terms of weeks or months, that we can escape from the free competition market, free competition that imposes European public contract law and Spanish law, like this we will not get through the proper months, there are alternatives to be able to focus on this public contract with social criteria, with environmental criteria, also linking it to gender objectives. In fact, the great operation that we were... You say: "The law that bears his name, look, listen, is that I never put that name, it was you, at the end of six months of entering this Parliament, when they found out that it was a good strategy to try to wear a political formation. And that's it. I know you're upset that I'm talking about concepts like redistribution, I'm talking about projects like reducing precariousness and inequalities, but you don't have the unique heritage of these values, you're trying to privatize some ideas. And ideas can't be privatized. In fact, the great victory of some ideas is when they are not only your property, but when they are the property of a vast majority. Independence, who was one of his great victories? That today is shared by a lot of people and a lot of people who may not see it yet. So even more. And it'll be shared by a lot more people, I'm not convinced, in the future. We have been preparing proposals. This reactivation plan, we haven't talked enough here in Parliament. We have been absolutely transparent in this sense. We've been pioneers, too, in this sense, and we want to make the most of preparations for, all the opportunities you have to get funds, get it. It is absolutely essential, because those funds that do not wander in those priorities that we mark from this chamber and that we mark from the Government of Catalonia, will go to those to whom you say they are friends or I do not know, but in any case they are those who are today competing, try to occupy the place of the Government of Catalonia to obtain the European funds, the Ibex35. And there must be no Ibex 35, the European foundations, must go to the productive economy. And there's either public leadership or they'll end up here. And so, that's why we need to get involved, and that's why we're going to defend this whole reactivation plan. And, in any case, the proposals there will always be absolutely welcome, won't they? Therefore, listen to me, we will continue to fight, we will continue to pull forward proposals, we will push in the next few weeks this plan of work that must reach many and many people, that suffers, that the truth does not matter if the UPC wants to privatize concepts that are universal from the left, or finally, that among all of them we can pull forward. I think the second option is always the best for everyone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.161.0	Thank you, Vice President. After this inquiry is over, the Ple is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.162.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Decree-Law No 33/2020 of 30 September on urgent measures in the field of taxation on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles and tax on stays in tourist establishments, and in the sphere of taxation and administration]] [[203-00058/12]] And we do so with the next item on the order of the day, the fourth, which is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 33/2020, of 30 September, of urgent measures in the field of the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles of mechanical traction and the tax on stays in touristic establishments, and in the field of assumptions and administration. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will first intervene to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. So, when you do, Mr. Aragonès, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.163.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. I intervene, as the President said, to present, for the validation of the chamber, the Decree Law 33/2020, which basically has two objectives: u, in the first place, to postpone what is the recaptation, the postage of the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles of mechanical traction, and also to make a modification in the tax of tourist establishments to allow the increase of the payment of this also to the casuistic, to the concrete characteristics of this type of tax. Let me begin, however, by making a reference to what is the picture we have, from the point of view of health, but also from the point of view of the economic point of view, marked by the pandemic, for this second time, which is affecting all of Europe, which is close to..., has forced many governments to take action: in Paris and eight large cities of France the curfew has been decreed; in Brussels, Amsterdam and Berlin, new containment measures have been taken by the pandemic, which also involve the suspension of certain restoration and hospitality activities; Portugal and Italy have endured restrictions, and in the city of Madrid and some other municipalities of that autonomous community, which also carry a number of days under the regime's control. Catalonia is no exception, before this situation is happening all over Europe, and it is clear that, before the slightest sign that the pandemic, the rate of infection is increasing again, it is essential to anticipate, take steps to ensure that we have control capacity. And control capability means maintaining the response capability of the health system, which is the most important part. It is obviously difficult to make decisions on the measures we have taken, and we would not like them to be taken, but if they are to be taken, we will take them. We believe that we must pose before the whole life of the citizenry. We know that they are difficult at the economic level, but we also know that they are essential at the health level, because either we act now or a few weeks from now the situation could be much worse, with harmful health, social and economic consequences. Therefore, we need to act now. The measures affect certain economic sectors, especially in some activities, businesses, workers, workers and families. And for this reason, we are accompanying actions to curb contagious diseases with economic support measures to companies that suspect their activity and also demand that, for those sectors that suspect their activity, you also make a contribution, also taking action, in this case with a moratorium on the main social taxes and contributions, and also sub-administrations. This must be our way of acting at all times, looking at the health crisis and taking the decisions that are necessary, however hard they are; looking at the health crisis and, in parallel, not losing sight at any time of the need to meet the economic and social dimension of the crisis provoked by the Covid. For this reason, we have the will to anticipate ourselves to the maximum in order to protect the salvation of people, but also to mobilise to the maximum all the resources that we have in our abyss in order to help minimize the economic and social impact of these measures, we are asking, therefore, important economic sectors that redouble their efforts to protect us all, to protect the salvation of all people. And we ask, also, once more, the citizenry that I act with the greatest responsibility for such, in the first place, that the rate of infection..., helps to lower, but also that the period of restrictions that affects economic activity is as soon as possible. A demand for effort and responsibility that we are the first to be aware of, take measures that do not please us because they delay the application of strategic actions that are very important, but now, in the specific context of this moment, so we think that we should leave for more forward, because now there are also urgent needs to help many businesses and families. And in this sense, as you know, the decree that I present today was approved a few weeks ago. And, as I mentioned in the beginning of my intervention, he refers to the carbon dioxide emissions tax on mechanical traction vehicles and the state tax on tourist establishments. I'm going for the first one: the CO2 tax. It does so that Parliament approved the modification of the tax; a tax that was created at the time for the Climate Change Law, the year 2017, which aims to reduce gas emissions with winter effects and promote transition to a neutral economy in emissions. And this is a basic, essential and absolutely inescapable compromise. And this government is compromised by the deepening of environmental taxation. And the good show of that is the continuous measures we have taken in the long past years to reduce the CO2 we emit into the atmosphere, to continue compromises in halting global warming, and, therefore, compromises, in short, to give an answer to a global planetary objective as it is, therefore, to act against climate emergence. That is to say, as expected, that during the proper weeks, during November, during the month of December, the standard of this tax figure was to be published, and therefore it would begin, so this charge is to be paid to a whole series of taxpayers that we believe at the present time should be left further ahead. We are talking about 4,400,000 vehicles; 2,100,000 taxpayers. Therefore, it is not a tax that requires only environmental responsibility of the richest, but it is a tax that is directed at the whole of the citizenry, that is paid according to the type of vehicle that you own, and as long as it has an impact – and that we already have it taken from the beginning – in any small vehicle, in vehicles that serve the autonomes, that serve workers and workers, entrepreneurs, beyond the great vehicles, therefore, that can be more occluded and that obviously they also have, with other impossive figures, more tax burden. We believe that at this point in time, at a time when GDP will fall between 10 and 12 per cent this year, at a time when there are economic sectors that see their activity stalled well because it is suspended with resolutions to stop the sanitary contagion or because, as a result of the economic evolution, there are fewer entries... At these times, this new situation, which is not expected when the tax was created, advises us – I think it is the most prudent and common sense – to leave the application of this tax for a little longer, to leave it for the next year. Today we will hear in this Chamber Members – I am absolutely not sure – that they will question the compromise with the climate change of the Government – I am absolutely not sure – and that they will say yes, that it is to be pulled..., and even that they will vote against this proposal. But do not validate this decree I mean that in the next few weeks they will start to turn away from taxes of sixty, hundred, etc., euros, to people who at these times..., at another time have to do it, but at these times, with a fall in activity, with an economic situation..., we believe that it is not reasonable to do it – it is not reasonable to do it. And, therefore, let's go further ahead not... basically, the year is coming. Therefore, we do not do so in the hardest moment from the economic point of view. And, therefore, let's keep the compromise. Which changes do we introduce? So let's leave the exercise 2019 without effect, which forced to tax tourism and vans; for what it does to the exercise 2020, which would deserve the next 31st of December, apply the lowest rate, which is the one originally planned for 2019 only, up to one hundred_twenty_grams/kilometre in the case of tourism and motorcycles, up to one hundred_sixty_grams/kilometre for vans. The resources that will be available by 2021 will be allocated to environmental policies. The publication schedule of the provisional and defined masters of this tax is amended, with information on the amount to be paid by each contributor to the financial year due in 2020. In agreement with the text approved, therefore, the provisional standard which was to be presented now in November becomes exposed between May 15, 2021..., and the defined standard, between September 1 and September 15, 2021. The standard, because we understand each other, is the list of taxpayers and it's up to them to pay for the exactness of the tax, for the collection of the tax. The formula is established to calculate the CO2 emissions of motorcycles that, for their antiquity, do not have official data, taking into account a whole series of technical variables such as fuel, cylinder, engine power, fish or antiquity, among others. And finally, the decree also approves a 100_percent bonus of the entire quota for the vehicles considered to be classic, just as the current legislation already provides for the historical vehicles. In order to be able to enjoy this bonus, the owners must present before the tax agency a certificate of suitability valid for the Catalan Federation of Historical Vehicles, which will have a validity of two years. By this measure, the Generalitat will no longer raise approximately €74 million, but it will be money that will continue in the butxaca and will also serve to alleviate the economic difficulties of our citizens in very complicated times. This morning the government was asked to postpone the collection of certain taxes. We've done it. And we do that too – then I'll come in – with the tourist tax adjourned. I wouldn't have a sense to start a new tax right now, at the worst time. It may balance the two principles or objectives of the fight against climate change through environmental taxation and that this is a fair transition. And at these times there are social sectors that are patenting a lot and therefore a new fiscal figure is not the most convenient at these times. And, for that matter, let's leave it for the coming year. From the point of view of the entries and the impact on the finances, to the fact, therefore, of the suspension of the objects of deficit, of the possibilities to obtain entries from other fields, we believe that the affectation is very matisada, that in other times it has not been so. It does not mean this measure that the government postpones the fight against climate change; we want to intensify it with new ways and opportunities, as we have done through the Pla for economic recovery and social protection in line with the 2030 Agenda and the European Next Generation EU. The ecological transition is one of the fundamental pillars of the Generality's reactivation plan, with planned investments of 16,700_million from now until 2032, and therefore objectives for the European reactivation fund that we want to achieve. And this product model change we're looking for is also accompanied by a cultural change that we all have to play in that green taxation has to play a role in the most immediate way possible. The second tax measure that we carry in this room today is in relation to the tax on stays in tourist establishments, which has been popularly known as the tourist tax, and has the objective – the measure that we present today – of responding to the economic difficulties that are still affecting the tourism sector. And I want to remind you that the Government also approved, in this sense, to facilitate the settlement of the tax on stays in tourist establishments in the following way. Therefore, tax obligations, which are the owners of hotels, campsites, etc., tourist accommodation in general, of establishments subject to the tax will be able to demand – and this is the novelty we introduce to the law – the renewal or fraction of the payment of the tax corresponding to the winter season of 2019, which was the year from '1 October 2019 to '1 March 2020, and in the summer of 2020. In this case, what's postponed is the input, but the actual recap is going to happen, and so it's not a waste of recap, obviously, if we look at it, right? Not on a short temporary scene... but it certainly doesn't mean a loss of recaptancy for the generality's assumptions. We complement, therefore, the measure that we approved, the Decree Illi 6/2020, of March 20, in which is given a moratorium for the presentation of the corresponding autoliquidations to the winter season 2019-2020 and is fixed the period of revenue between the 1st and 20th October of enguany. The decree therefore forms part of two chapters, three articles and four additional provisions, a transitional provision and two final provisions. For what makes the additional provisions, it leaves no effect, therefore, what was deserved during 2019; it also authorizes, among other presuppositional questions, the incorporation of novels from generations of belief that has been made with reference to the Covid source for autonomous communities so that it is passed on to the year 2021– is to say, if there is any of these areas where the credit has been generated but it has not been spent because the activities went beyond 31 December..., it is possible to pass these moneys to the coming year; it facilitates planning – and it also enables beneficiaries of grants or aid to the cultural field that may extend the term of compliment to the object and the purpose of subsidizing. It is a measure of support for the cultural sector, in which at these times the purpose of many subsidies cannot be brought to an end before 31 December or before the terms laid down on the bases, and, therefore, this extension is available. I, therefore, so... And, therefore, a small clause respects the intervention function to give legal certainty to the future deployment of the state regulation of the intervention function. And, finally, therefore, to the final dispositions what it does is to add Mollet del Vallès as a municipality included in the declaration of areas of housing market you have so that it can be incorporated into the forecasts of the Law 11/2020, which was the content of returns of the loggers. Therefore, it is also important to validate this decree because Mollet del Vallès can be attached to the price limitation measures of the loguers. And finally, the immediate entry into force of the law decree, which has already been produced, therefore, with its publication. Therefore, I would not end up without reiterating a call to everyone's responsibility; everyone before a pandemic situation. We won't get tired of saying it. We're the first words we demand our own responsibility. Especially because health professionals are making an effort, because businesses and many families, workers and workers, are going through a situation of many difficulties; that will overcome this situation of difficulties... The first step to overcome it is to overcome the situation of health crisis. The first step to overcoming it is to achieve a reduced level of infection. And, therefore, personal attitude, ultimately, reduced to compromise of all, responsibility of all is essential. And, therefore, we must be extremely responsible. And finally, they also ask the parliamentary groups to facilitate the validation of this decree. I sincerely believe that, in the situation in which we are in extreme difficulty, a fair measure such as this one must wait for a little to have not only a fair application and to prevent it from going into the worst moment when many families are patenting, but also that these new measures must have a welcome and a legitimation. And I think we need to be able to keep up with him. And today the deputies who are likely to intervene asked for measures in these areas, measures in the tax field, commitments in this sense; they say to us: "Whatever you ask of the Government of the State, apply it. Late today, so we're taking it to validation, measures in this sense, and so I'm counting on you to give us support. Thank you very much, Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.164.0	Thank you, Vice President. It is now the return of parliamentary groups to position themselves. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.165.0	President-in-Office, President, Members, Members of Parliament, today we are presented for validation with Decree Law 33/2020 of 30 September, which affects two favourable taxes on which – you know – we have always had a very unfavourable opinion. For what it does to the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles, we have already made a thorough presentation of our counter-opinion, based on the fact that it was a poorly designed tax, that it was not effective and that, contrary to what is said in its explanatory statement, it does not serve the purpose for which it is set: to encourage the reduction of CO2 emissions. So, it's a generalist tax, as long as it doesn't seek to reduce CO2 emissions, but only to record them. Therefore, it does not have a deterrent purpose; it is only recaptancy. One more time, the most affected are those who cannot escape the city by little, not those who contaminate the most; taxes for possession of a good and not for its use. The correct thing would have been to design a more specific tax and with a specific purpose, the reduction of emissions, the end with which we agree. Because Ciutadans is fully aligned with the fight against climate change. But one thing is the fight against scalding and the other, to keep under this laudable effort to give a new screw to the taxpayers' buttock. The tax cannot treat equal to who is constantly moving, to whom is five hundred, thirty-thousand or one hundred-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand, because their emissions are not the same. And that I think is very reasonable. It is a tax that does not take into account the emissions of mechanical traction vehicles in transit through our community or vehicles that are not registered, because it can promote a certain runaway effects from vehicle fleets to the communities that come to where there is no such tax. Let's remember that the CO2 emissions tax had a fast, ultra-fast processing that prevented a careful discussion. A total of 30 minutes were devoted to her step for ponència. I've always thought there are two ways to do things: either right or in a hurry. You are now choosing to make these things right, and so they come out; you just need to see the results in the fight against the pandemic. But, of course, it should be done finely, and you like the bombardment better by saturation, as has been shown by the last few days imposing a lock on the entire inn sector without having been supported by scientific evidence and without a reasonable explanation to do so. They only know how to act at the touch of a dick. Or when the consequences of its decisions are transferred to the private sector, another step is taken by the market to deal with measures which, instead of clarifying them, are still more insecure. A decision by the indiscriminate government always ends up affecting someone. It is a solution for the catering sector, but it ends up affecting another sector, that of the loguers, where there is everything, another time, from the entrepreneurs who dedicate themselves to people who get their tickets or supplement their pensions from these returns. Another time they don't take the accurate solution, but the easy one. It is in crisis situations where you see the direction style of the government, and it seems that what they like is the authoritarian touch. And that's very funny for people who four days ago skipped the legal order and the most basic standards of democratic coexistence. In short, it's a tax that they just want to recap, that doesn't cover their CO2 emission reduction target, because it doesn't encourage it. What incentive can there be if a paid time can contaminate as much as you want? No limits, encouraging non-collaborative attitudes. Today they bring us the de facto freezing of the tax to 2019 levels. Even though we don't agree with this tax, let's reiterate, let's think about the good of everyone, especially at times as difficult as the current ones, and choose to pick it up. In the end it is about optimizing decisions, and in this case we will opt for a decision, for a second best option, with the promise that we will continue to struggle to substantially modify this tax. The other imposition that they present us is one of the other of these stars: the tax on stays in touristic establishments. We are presented with an update or fraction of the payments of the debts arising from the autoliquidation of the tax corresponding to the semesters between October 1 of 19 and March 31 of 2020 and between April 1 of 2020 and September 30 of this year. This measure was widely requested for the sector, especially given that the fall in overnight stays during this pandemic has caused the closure of the entire sector practically and the impossibility to recover the tax. In this sense, say that this measure we had already asked for the month of May of Encany, when we already knew the negative effects on the economy of the Covid pandemic. This October 1st, a proposal from our immediate group the Government to establish a moratorium was approved by the Commission of Enterprise, as was the exemption from this tax by 2020 and to consider extending it to 2021 depending on how the pandemic was carried out. We also wanted to approve a reassessment of the tourism sector for its solidary pocket before the health, economic and social crisis caused by the Covid-19. This tax – and above all the expense that is to be applied to Barcelona; our group in the Assembly has already asked that it be cancelled – it will only succeed – already we have to say during the presuppositional processing – a reduction in competitiveness under normal conditions, and even more in exceptional situations than the current ones. If the increase of this tax is maintained, it is expected that here in Barcelona the gene will increase a 0,75_euro and continue to push it until 2024, when tourists will have to pay per person and day 6,25_euro. This means that a family of four people who are five days old to our city will end up paying 125_euros more in taxes. If that's how you're going to help the sector, we're fine. We criticize these taxes, both of us. And not because we are against taxes – which we are not – we are against the fact that we always have to pay taxes to the same people; that the easy solution of any government when there are no entrances is to push taxes; that it is done in this way barroera and without economic feeling; that it is always possible for the easy way: the indiscriminate pull, like indiscriminate locks or as indiscriminate bans. Acting in this way alone implies ignorance, improvisation and incompetence. Taxes are instruments of countercyclical economic policy: they thrive when there is economic growth and fall when there are recessions. You only know how to push them. One of the main difficulties with which you find yourself is that you have not taken advantage of the growth of the last few years to reduce the public deficit of our community; on the contrary, it has increased. Now, when it would be necessary to be able to help all the people who are going through it badly, when we could generate deficit because of the fact that it is actually at our disposal, we find that it is already giant. By luck– and because of the exceptionality of this crisis – we are authorized to push it, to dispose of whatever is necessary. But, it matters, that a very important part will not be free, it will have to come back and become part of this debt bubble that we are generating and that mortgages the future of our children, net and well-being. Is this the heritage we want to leave them? Could we ever think about the future of our fellow citizens instead of our own four years? The tourist sector doesn't get any more tax, it needs to improve security. It is necessary to fight against the submerged economy, which in the sector is estimated that up to 25_per_cent; that there are no young people from political parties like Arran – and that is not so long ago, the past July – that it is dedicated to attacking tourist buses and that it is encouraging tourism. Now that we don't have tourists – maybe the sleep of some group in this room – we know what it means. The anglers say no bread, no win. Now we know who the bread would be that would be the success of criminalizing a sector that accounts for 12_percent of GDP and 14_percent of employment. It's true that we need to reform and we need to think about all the folds that we need to be the model of tourism we want for the future. But we need to be aware that these changes are prolonged over time for years and that it is not a question of today tomorrow, as some teens ask. We will gather approval for this decree of the law. Not because we agree with these taxes, which we are not, but because they allege, even though it is now, the fiscal pressure at a time when the economic situation makes it more necessary than ever. This morning, he was listening another time like Councilman Tremosa was giving us the solution to all our bad thanks to hibernation. Wait till spring, they tell us. There's not enough with this message. People can't wait for spring, solutions have to come now, when they play, not when they come to you well. In order to make these decisions, they have had to spend months from the beginning of the pandemic, knowing that this would not be better, that we would have seconds and third days, that the epidemiological situation would not be better, thanks, among other things, to its inaction and incompetence. They haven't activated enough trackers, they're refusing to implement the application that works for the rest of Spain and all of Europe, and on top of that they come with milongas on which Switzerland knows nothing more than thirty minutes, when you are needed collaborators of this situation. Or is it that the Catalan Administration is resolved in thirty minutes? You're complaining when you don't have the skills at the start of the pandemic and you're complaining now when you have them. Suns can complain. I'm doing benchmarking. Benchmarking uses it... so, well, proving that you're doing better than the others, to prove your good management. But it's also used when you want to store your own management of how badly you do it, and then you say, "It's that I do it as badly or as well as the others. You only apply this second option. We, in this sense, will not stand up against these taxes, because we have already told them that we are in favour of economic recovery and to do as little as possible the situation of our fellow citizens. But I have to tell them they saw him. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.167.0	Thank you, President. Bona tarda, Vice-President of the Council of Economics and Hisenda, deputies and deputies. Well, today the government of the generality brings us again a decree law to give response to this pandemic, which has come and is fighting us against the current, against..., so that's not it? , against this crisis which is first health care, but which is also social and economic. If I'm not miscounted, I think this is the twenty-five decree law on measures on or against... to fight the pandemic. I don't know if you remember, Counselor, that this Parliament approved a few months ago that the government had to stop presenting inconsistent decrees and that they had to agree with the opposition. So let's say that again a new law decree where that doesn't happen, because in the same decree we find tax changes, we find changes to a housing law..., that's to say, things you don't have to see. Take advantage of the anti-pandemic measure to add to other things that... well, that have been wrong, that have been forgotten. And I don't think that's the way it is. We also told them it would be good for them to agree. I have to say that in this case it is true that his department called us and we were able to speak a little, ex post, a little already, say, the decree was approved, but I think that what it would touch is that if you really want our responsibility and want us to pose next to you..., it would be good that before you make the decrees, before the government approves them, you can work with opposition. Because then you take responsibility for it, and we have it all. In fact, all of her decrees have been approved in this chamber, haven't they? But maybe in some, quite a few, we voted against it because it seemed that, until a point, then, we could no longer raise the government. Whom yes..., it's true, who we are in the hands of for health care measures; some may seem better or worse to us but we always collect and support them, but the other is, after all, what compensatory measures you take, which is probably where we don't agree with what you're doing. To get into the matter of the law decree. On the first tax they modify, carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles. Well, what you do is leave the tax on the year 2019 to no effect, 2020 incorporates a lower rate – the one that was planned for 2019 – and will not tax tourism and motorcycles, motorcycles, with CO2 emissions, with different measurements, right? And they explain to us that well, that they also modify the calendar of the publication of the padro, because, well, because they must have had difficulties, we suppose, and that it will be exposed between 1 and 15 September; it is to say that we go to one year, more than a year, of the application of this tax. Clearly, it's very hard for us to agree with this change, because you've been... first because we're ahead of an important climate emergency. It is to say, if we are... You always say: "Life, from before. Yes, life in front of the pandemic and life in front of a climate emergency, which is also carrying the planet, and we, from Catalonia, must also make efforts to help this be so, right? And more so because doing environmental policies certainly also helps to generate jobs and wealth in the territory, and that is two things that have been linked and we want to say. This government has done little to fight the climate emergency, very little. We are at the top of the generation of wind or solar energy, and it is clear that we do not bet on the electric vehicle; fortunately we have companies like SEAT that have said to invest up to 2025 5,000_million euros, but we, until last year, only had drawings of electric vehicles, drawings, very little. If we really want to bet on it, the generality would be fine if we were to have this change in a very strong way, wouldn't it? And if we're talking about green taxation, then we haven't been very ambitious either. There were some..., with the reform that they did, together with the commons, some incorporations – no, and it's fine; we also picked them up – but, listen'm, at the end of the year 2019 they made us approve of this tax that today modify the correctness, without appearances. We've enjoyed doing it a little more slowly. They made it very quick. Among other things, they told us that we had to do this express law so that we could apply it quickly, and that was one of the things that you said to us, that even now you have the data because you can apply it, and so we, by responsibility, because we believe in the green tax, we did... we gave support to this. And just today they tell us that well, that for the pandemic, then, it would be better to leave it. It seems to us that it is no excuse, because so much pandemic is the crown virus as the climate emergency we live in, and so it seems to us that what you should do – you should have already done it, but – is to keep the application of this tax, because, I don't know, or lie to us before or lie to us now; the truth is that we didn't just hear your position very well. The other is that somehow the message that we are giving is that we continue to prioritize the private vehicle over public transport, here, because, it is clear, in the end, therefore, people will say: "So we continue to use private transport. And then you didn't come up with any real policies to bet on a transformation of the fleet of vehicles to the electric vehicle or net energies. I don't like it either. You're saying, escort, they're still with this one. All right, so we're still contaminating the planet and we're still with some big, hard indexes for the citizens' salvation, too, huh? , for the salvation of the citizens. Because, in the end, contamination and climate emergence also have to do with salvation and our ability to have a guaranteed future over the years. Miri, you have also been unable to complete the Climate Change Law, which required you to submit before the end of the year 2019 the gas emission law. And surely they will also not complete the presentation of the carbon assumptions. So, frankly, our group does not have a lot of confidence in you; we believe that what they have to do is take decisive steps to help families and businesses and not small gestures that seem to us not to solve the problems of the foundations. Therefore, we cannot support this decree; we have done so in many others, and you know it, but in this case, therefore, it cannot be. In any case, they will have the right of this Parliament, which will already allow them to approve this decree, which speaks above all of taxes. It is with whom in the past few years they have approved the taxation of this Parliament and this country, except last year, or this 2020, which they approved with Podemos and which we have supported with the commons. I must say that, since 2012, Vice President, you have not proposed a tax reform, nor of the IRPF, nor of estates... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, She was one of very shy, and there was no change, nor of IRPF; that is, one of very shy successions and neither IRPF nor heritage. It is to say that you have not really believed in it and have continued to approve many amendments or motions together with Citizens and the People's Party. That's it. It'll pass again today. Well, that's all right. I think it's good that we know. About the tourist tax. We agree with the adjournment or fraction. In fact, we in many cases had already asked for it, and it had already been approved in this Parliament. It's true that they didn't stop paying, but they simply put up the payment. And so far, so we agree. One thing we'd like to say, and I think it's worth keeping in mind. You know very well that part of this collection goes to the joints. And so, now, then, clearly, we should think..., which you will say to us: "As long as we don't get into it, so neither should the gatherings. Yes, but the difference is that you have rejected, or reopened, at the length of this 2020 €3,225_million in the State, a portion of these for the smallest entries, in the face of the pandemic, and we believe that there should be a compensation at the gatherings, which, without skills and resources, are doing much more, no more than the Generality, but they are doing much more than the neighbors. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Home, so much. Listen, they've disinfected schools, they've given up space to schools, they've given up space for CAP vaccination. Home, you won't tell me no, will you? I'm bringing all the mayors here. Listen to me, the situation at the gatherings is very complex at the financing level. They've done everything they can and do, no competition and no resources. And what we're saying is if you've thought, counselor, to make up for the gatherings, that you've been asking for 200_million euros in a long time to distribute, so that you can face this extraordinary expense, which is a lot. And so, if they can't have this part of the tourist tax anymore now, so now we're asking them if they've thought about it, because what we think is that it should be compensated. It's just that when decisions are made, it has an affect. It's the same: "We're closing bars and restaurants. That has an affect. Why didn't the same day propose a serious compensation, not 40 million euros, which is ridiculous? Of the 780_million euros they stopped billing, 40, you see. Home, they put on July 9_million euros on the table for the trade sector that in half an hour has ended. It's coming: we have 98,000 establishments in Catalonia... Well, you're getting resources. Other communities are doing it. And, therefore, it seems to us that you should be a little more ambitious. Therefore, we will not support this decree, despite the fact that we might agree with the tourist fee. We believe that what you have to do, when you take health care measures, to which we give support, and we try to be very little critical about this..., but we ask you to make good compensation with the economic sectors or with the assemblies, which also have implications for the decisions that you take, and above all a certain day and concertation, which is often complained of by the economic sectors, the bars, the restaurants, the beauticians, which do not understand why you take seconds of decisions, and less do you understand that you do not compensate for this evil that you will do to close your establishment. Therefore, we would ask them for a little more dialogue, a little more concertation, and, above all, the climate emergency also has to see with the salvation of the citizens. So, don't let her out of the band. I know it's a little set, but they're trying to keep this compromise that this Parliament has asked for so many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.168.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.169.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, from our parliamentary group, from Catalonia to Comú Pode, basically convey that we will not give support to the decree. Actually, we'll vote against it. Also with the conversations we've had with the Department of Economics, we've transferred them. Because basically we don't agree with lowering the CO2 tax on mechanical traction vehicles. And, in fact, we have the feeling that if we don't have an election on February 14th, we probably wouldn't be discussing this decree; that's to say that someone has come to the conclusion that a tax that does everything just one year thought it was necessary and strategic to fight the climate change, so today is unpopular and that, therefore, perhaps better than the postponing and not going well for the electoral campaign, in this case the electoral campaign of the vice president and candidate of Esquerra Republicana, right? We want to remember that this tax is or should be at the core of climate and natural heritage, that for us it is strategic in the climate emergency context, and that I will refer to it later, and that what is being married today from the table is basically the elimination of the tax for the year 2019 and a reduction I would say quite important and very drastic by 2020, with an effect on the recovery that we understand to be no less; it is, in other words, a loss of almost 40_million euros of revenue this year 2020, which makes reference, isn't it? , to the amount to be charged in respect of the year 2019, and with a very significant impact on a future recap of EUR 155_million for the year 2020. And we also believe that the strategic bet is wrong, that is to say, because here I agree that measures must be taken to deal with the economic impact and the impact, obviously, of the health crisis and also of the economic crisis, but we could have made a decision in a different sense. For example, we may have decided to apply a very important discount to the price of public transport. At a time when it is obvious that there are difficulties, that there is also a crisis of confidence for a part of the citizenry in the use of public transport, right? He's betting more for a downside. That is to say, when the vice president said "it's a way for citizens to have more resources to cope with a complicated economic situation... but it's also true that a lot of people have forced mobility, that they don't have access to the private vehicle, that's because they don't have a car or they don't have a car or they don't have a car; I want to remember that 50–50 – percent of the population in Catalonia either they don't have a car or they don't have a car. So there is also an option here that we do not share, that, probably, if you want to make decisions in this sense, so, probably, you could have made a drastic intervention in the price of public transport, more taking into account the amount of resources that are being saved, right? It also reinforces, that it is one of the things that is also demanded, that is being done..., it is saying, today, for example, the Authority of Transport Metropolity is, for example, different from other autonomous communities, making public transport in peak time work fully, despite the fact that demand is not absolute; but even so we could have explored the possibility of increasing the number of trains to the maximum, to the point of increasing by over one hundred_per_cent of demand for public transport. This would also be a way of responding to this situation, which was the subject of an economic crisis and also of a health crisis. Therefore, we do not share the priority that it is, we believe that it would have been better to place these resources in another direction; for example, we already want it, in the use of public transport, or in this case, at last, in the policy of public transport tariffs. And then, of course, it's also a development that I think, well, it's legitimate, but it's also quite surprising, it's also against a little, say, of the same Catalonian self-government, which is to reduce the capacity of the Government of the Generality to recapitulate and, in any case, to claim that it is constantly compensated by the Government of the State. In fact, this reduction of the entrances in the compensation of the fall of the Fons Covid-19's entrances, when it is a political decision that we have before us, or that we take as a..., that the government has taken and that, in any case, the Parliament seems that it will ratify with the votes of Ciutadans, I don't know if also of the People's Party. But, anyway, it's like, it's like a drop in admissions when it's a political decision the government makes not to tax or postpone the tax on this tax. We also understand that it is a little contradictory, in the sense of diminishing the capacity of the Generality and constantly asking, that obviously I think it has to be done, but I mean... There has been the Covid Fund and there will be another Covid Fund, the deficit targets have been changed... Also, for example, when it is asked, it is said: "It is not the time to increase the taxation. Well, we, at least, as at the Congress level and also in the state government, are claiming a fairer tax. I believe that your parliamentary group, too, in the Congress, also claims it. I also insist on this: that is, 50 percent of the population does not have a car or a driver's license, and, therefore, about the progress of this tax we could discuss enough, because it is not exactly how you explained it. And I also enter into a debate that I also have to see more... more of a model. When you made reference..., you said, "Don't let it be said that this government doesn't have a firm commitment to the struggle against climate change or climate emergence. Well, my position in this is certainly different or different from its position, and to the fact that I am referring to it, they do not have to see only with this concrete case, because it is obvious that we are in healthcare emergence, no doubt; also in economic emergence, I believe; but we are also in climate emergence. In fact, the same Government of the Generality made a declaration of climate emergency, and we have already told him that we understand that it was another symbolic declaration, empty of content, and therefore believe that in this sense the climate emergency is more declarative than a real or tangible emergence on the part of the Government. And also, I mean... that's an emergency that doesn't stop; that's to say, we're seeing it, right? , not only for the context of the data we have on temperature increase, global temperature increase, also on the situation of the effects of climate change, also in Catalonia. But even so, if we talk about the use of the private vehicle, about the contamination, this week a report from the Public Health Agency that explained that only in Barcelona a thousand people die in the year because of the effects of the contamination. Or from an economic point of view, that the effects of contamination in social terms and of health policies, have an effect of 4_percent of GDP, for example, in this case, of the city of Barcelona. That is to say, contamination costs each city Barcelona and Barcelona €1,300_in the year, for each city. Therefore, it also has an impact on the economy by not taking action in the fight against climate change, climate change and pollution. And in the end, we have the perception that this is always day after day on the part of the government, and that, moreover, it is contradictory with some of the policies that the government has on its way. That is to say, we understand that it cannot be said that a priority is the Green Agenda or the fight against climate change – we believe that the government more than a green agenda has a grey agenda – when they have projects from the table with a high environmental impact, such as Barcelona World, but even from a point of view of infrastructure policy – and here they surely coincide with more groups, as well as the Socialist Party as a whole. It is to say, the bet, for example, for the development and extension of the C-32 between Blanes and Lloret. We have also known these days, for example, the option of Torroella de Montgrí's variant with the aim of building the Costa Brava motorway, and that it also contrasts, for example, with a decision that I think is uncertain, that it is on the part of the Government of the State to freeze the unfolding of the National II until we know what happens, for example, with the toll of the AP-7 to the gironine comarques, that if they end up feeling free, so how did they feel to continue unfolding the lanes. Therefore, I believe that the orientation of the generality's climate policies is, as in the least, contradictory, not to say erroneous, and this decree is a step further in this direction. That is to say, we understand that what should be done is precisely not to give the message to the citizenry that it bets it, in a context of health emergency, is the private vehicle, but precisely that we have from the Generality, from the Parliament of Catalonia, all the instruments from a point of view of resources, of security, because the use of public transport is as safe as possible and that, moreover, the citizenry has returned to trust it, right? Beyond that, the contrast is also obvious, for example, that we may agree with the moratorium and, therefore, with the adjournment of the payment or, as a minimum, with the transfer of the resources that the hoteliers collect on the tourist tax to the Generalitat..., so it could probably have done a similar thing, we might have looked for other formulas with this tax that is one of the three trunk taxes of the Climate Change Law – and, certainly, it is the only one that the Generalitat approved of the three taxes that the Climate Change Law fixed, that there are only two more than they are still pending. In short, therefore, we regret the little compromise in the fight against climate change and climate change on the part of the Government of the Generality and say that we obviously cannot support this decree because we do not share the objective or, in any case, the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.170.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Constituent CUP, of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.171.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. Do you know how often independence goes on when the Spanish State has to constantly remember that it is a democratic state, so that something fails? You came out today to present this decree in good part of your intervention with a justification. A justification such as, of course, the criticism we have made by some of the parliamentary groups and sub-parliamentary groups of the compromise of his Government and, concretely, the compromise of his advice with the climate emergency. You literally said: "The government's compromise is basic, essential and inescapable with the fight against climate emergency. But how do we want to be very strict and not then say that we are not strict, what does it mean to say inescapable? That he can't escape. And what does it mean to avoid, according to the Catalan language dictionary? It means postponing, it means leaving for more forward. You in the same intervention avoided with subterfuges or enabled a difficulty or an obligation, which is what the dictionary says about « eluding. He said in one intervention that his commitment to climate emergence is very high, but that now it doesn't touch, that now we can't. The day we finally approved the modification of the Climate Change Law to make the tax as possible as agreed with the group of commons, we said that we believe that it was not the tax of the three that contemplated the priority law and with more concrete effects on the climate emergency, because we consider that the taxes on nitrogen dioxide emissions from large ships in the port of Barcelona and the taxes on emissions of greenhouse gases from the economic activity have a much more important impact on who actually affects the climate and the emergency situation than a tax on having a car, as has already been said. It is that in this sense when there is such a broad consensus in such a different and plural chamber for something will be. A tax that does not answer to "who pollutes the most, pays the most, and now, besides, postpones it. We don't agree. We did not agree at the time with the changes they made, we did not agree because we understood that it was not the priority. And, moreover, we note that his government, concretely from the departments of Economy and the Department of Territories, led by Damià Calvet, have drunk, they have despised and they have deprived what was a pioneering law – let us stop saying, let us stop saying when we go for the places that the Climate Change Law is a pioneering law; 27 July 2017. We could not apply to the ugly pioneer, the ugly pioneer. Therefore, in this sense, we do not agree. And, besides, we do not agree either, because precisely in a moment... – he adds – I have an argument to which they have already told the other parliamentary groups – it is estimated that at the end of the year there will be a deficit of EUR 500_million for the consequences of the Covid in public transport, for the distrust of the users, for the difficulties that there is. So in a moment where, for the sake of salvation, a thousand people in the year in the city of Barcelona suffer the consequences of atmospheric contamination in the city. At a time with an increasing climate emergence, and at a time where it is more necessary than ever for public archives, for their responsibility, to equip and enhance public transport, you do it by pulling back and empowering the car precisely to be the main vehicle, the main tool to move in this country. So, we think it's a misrepresentation. It's wrong, it's stuck to the correctness, this decision. Surely it has a part of not looking for the unpopularity of a new waste, a new tax in an electoral context. But I do not respond to the strategies that this Parliament puts on the table as priorities, and in any case to the priorities that its government puts on the table. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I insist on the issue of the public transport deficit, which is important, which has very important consequences for the common, public archives. And we are not thinking of strategies to promote and restore confidence in the use of public transport, as it can be more combo, as it can be more time-consuming. So that people use public transport more, not the car. For all the reasons we've already put forward and for the question of salvation. I ended up answering, and by allusions, the deputy from Ciutadans who was talking about tourism. That they didn't fit in? It's just that we don't want them to tell us we're right. What we want is a decent life for everyone. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Putting all the eggs in the same cyst of the tourism predator industry has proved, in the context of the crisis of the Covid, a weakness. The first question – and now I'm finished, President – I did in this Parliament talk about this, about the need to reformulate the priority of placing all the eggs in the monoculture of tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.172.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.173.0	Vagina in the municipality like Lloret de Mar, who live exclusively from the tourism, and see the one in front of the Food Bank.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.175.0	It's not tourism, it's dignity, what we want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.176.0	The next speaker is Mr Santi Rodríguez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.177.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Vice-President, Members, Members, this decree will propose the fourth – fourth – amendment of the tax on carbon dioxide emissions by vehicles. Fourth. It hasn't come into force yet, it hasn't even got a _sunshot yet, and it's the fourth modification. Or the quinta, it's that I've taken care of everything. The quinta. The first was with the Bill of Measures of the Year 2017, which created this tax; the second was with the Bill of Climate Change; the third was with Law 9/2019, of the September of the past year, which re-amended this tax; the fourth, to the Decree Law 14, of April, in which they modified the publication date of the padró, the result of the confinement situation that we suffer and moved the publication of the padró from 1 to 15 November, and the fifth, this Decree Law that we are debating today, that this from 1 to 15 November, this Covid does not fit, I point to two theories and can be the two others. One, which Mr. Romero pointed out, is to say, that I do not have the standard; the other, which seems to me to be the most plausible, the one pointed out by Mr. Cid: we have elections to the vote and that of putting a new tax on the table, which more than anything else has said 2,100,000 Catalans– 2,100,000 Catalans–, man, with some elections to the vote, so surely that does not fit, right? Listen, our position on this tax is exactly the same as the first day: we are against this tax. For many reasons, we have already discussed them, we have discussed them on various occasions in this very House, who are all these reasons. The main one: there is no direct connection between who will pay this tax and who will pollute; there is not. You can keep a vehicle and not use it and pay the tax. Or you can keep your vehicle domiciled in another community and use it in Catalonia and, therefore, contaminate Catalonia, and you will not pay this tax. Therefore, this lack of connection I believe is the fundamental element for our opposition. But let me tell you something else, because you, in your intervention, have come to say – he has come to say – that this has been addressed to the castor. And that's exactly the opposite, because the vehicles that contaminate the most are the old vehicles and the rich don't have any problems with it, they include an electric vehicle, they're not at the bottom of anything, they buy an electric vehicle and they stop paying this tax and they stop paying, for example, the generality's highways, too, right? But, well, the rich in this don't have any problems. Who's gonna have any more problems? Those who don't have the resources to change the oldest vehicle, who will be the ones to pay this tax and the ones to pay the most, huh? Therefore, it is not an income tax for the rich; on the contrary, it is an income tax for those who do not have the opportunity to change their cars. And with a significant impact on rural areas. We were going to say that there was this weight in relation to rural areas. And now what you're doing is suppressing... – we don't see it bad anymore – which is suppressing and saying: « Listen, we won't charge 2019. It's not that they don't cover 2020, they won't charge 2019; 2020 they'll charge it, which happens to be 2021, but 2020 they'll charge it, right? So, well, listen, we're against the tax, but when you say, "So listen, 2019 we won't charge it, we'll pay the year you see, so look, we can't oppose it – we can't oppose it – and we can't say no to it. Second element of this decree: the tax of tourist states. And you're presenting us as a big thing to make it possible to adjourn the half-year payment. They have done so with certainty with the first semester, which does not coincide with the natural semester, but, well, not the first semester of 2019, logically measures the circumstances for which the inn passed, for which it passed and for which it continues to pass, and now they do so with the second semester. We said: it is essential not that we make a moratorium on the payment of this tax, but that we make a moratorium on the tax at least during the years 2020 and 2021. You didn't want to do this to us, and now you have the possibility of the adjournment. But, of course, when a law reads, it says: "with application of requirements, terms and conditions that establish the general tax rules, that is, charging interest – charging interest. So, look, it seems to us that the payment of this tax can be postponed, but we don't agree that the more you pay interest, the better the situation you go through. And I also end up positioning myself against the additional provision that you plan to expand the list of municipalities in which the Law of limitation of logger yields applies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.178.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.179.0	... and, therefore, if only it is drawn from this, we would vote against it; at the same time, we would abstain from the other circumstances.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.180.0	Thank you. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, has the word the deputy Mr Lluís Salvadó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.181.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, deputies and deputies, as well as referring to the spokesman of the Socialist Group, is Decree No. 33 approved by the Government in this exercise, in this annuality: twenty-five, twenty-six dedicated to the pandemic, to take action against the pandemic. And, sadly, surely if the government does what it did and what the country it does needs, they'll have to approve some more staple by the end of the year. And, therefore, this long list of decrees will have to continue to grow and continue to grow because even though some today focus on talking about electoral campaigns or on talking about whether or not the bosses exist, we are in one of the most important pandemics of the 21st century, of course, the most important. And we are at the door of a situation that, sadly, looks critical, and it seems to me that it is good and essential that we remember and that we may deal with it with a little more responsibility in our speeches. Today there are 40_million affected people in the world, 41_million–41_million– people affected by the pandemic; in Europe, more than one_million. At this time the world's dead have exceeded 1,100,000; in Europe, a quarter of a million, and, while at this time at the level of Catalonia we have mortality rates and relatively controlled hospital pressure, we cannot be an expert in public health to understand that the situation that is forecast for the next weeks and months is complex, in Catalonia, and in Europe and the world. And the measures that are being taken in Catalonia..., someone previously commented that if they did not have the scientific endorsement; it will be that the scientists did not agree to all of Europe, because the measures that are being taken in Catalonia are exactly the same as they are taking in Holland, that they are taking in Chechnya, that they are taking in Northern Ireland, that they are taking in Scotland, and in some other countries that go beyond those that have been taken here, they arrive at absolute confinements, as is the case with Gal·les or Ireland. Therefore, what the Government of Catalonia does is no different from the most advanced governments in Europe. Therefore, that the recommendations of scientists are not followed here, may not be a very strict statement. In any case, these measures must be and must be anticipated – as has been done in Catalonia and has not been done in other territories of the State, unfortunately – in order to avoid the collapse of the health system, to avoid the closure of the schools, to prevent us from having growth in the mortality rate or to affect a larger part of our economy. In any case, and continuing what the Government of the Generality has done and has done..., that it will continue to adopt laws such as today, that it will continue to adopt measures such as that adopted yesterday by the government to give support in those sectors of economic activity that are directly affected by these preventive measures. But, in any case, it is also good that we remember that 90_per_cent, more than 90_per_cent of the taxes that the citizens of our country pay to the State, and it is also good that we remember that the 750,000_million euros that will come from the European foundations in the framework of the recovery plan will unfortunately return to the Spanish State. And it says badly because we would certainly like some – but there is still room to correct it – that a large part of these funds are directly linked, local administrations, regional administrations, that we would certainly manage them more quickly and with much greater efficiency, among other things because some of the news that appeared to be intended to be a significant part of these funds are not what we would certainly like to see all of them. And anyway, I'm getting a little bit into the question we're dealing with today's door: two taxes. The first, alotjament..., about the tax on tourist stays. It is an imposition in which various corrections have been carried out on the part of the decrees which were approved previously and which, to a good extent, have been made in respect of an adjournment, and some complain that these adjournments were shared or with the word of interest, the General Law would tax. Mr. Rodriguez, the general Spanish tax law, we have no room to make any decisions in this regard. And, on the other hand, remember that it's an adjournment. Someone was also suggesting that if you have to make up for the joints. We are talking about events, punctual events only for those establishments that ask for it. As everyone knows, the tourist season has been uneven. We have had parts of the country that has worked very well, parts of the country that has worked fatally, and, therefore, in this sense the measure that incorporates the law decree is the right one, is selective. Those sectors of the country, those establishments that have dramatically suffered the consequences of the crisis, can ask, and those that have not, do not. And, therefore, this adjournment is selective, it is appropriate, and, therefore, we seem to be an absolutely proportionate measure. With regard to the second tax, the tax on polluting vehicles has been generated, as it happened at the end of 2019, as it was in 2017, an intense debate defending its virtues, some, and questioning the problems that a tax of these characteristics can generate. In any case, recognize the consistency of some who voted against 2017, and today they continue to oppose it, against it, as is the case with the People's Party. And also denounce the incoherence of some who voted in favour of the tax in 2017, as is the case with Ciutadans, and today they make frontally opposed speeches. In any case, we can accept in this debate that there is in doubt a measure of conjunctural character. Now, it seems to me that it should not be in doubt, or it should not be in doubt, from our point of view, a strategic bet and what is now being raised by the Government is a measure of conjunctural character, in a conjuncture of a pandemic and a brutal crisis, and that at these times, surely, it may be that someone is concerned about the elections, but that it seems to me that the Government at these times is concerned and is dealing with the situation of brutal crisis that we have at these times in the midst of the table. In any case, strategic bet on this tax, which is also worth reminding some, who seem not to remember, that if this tax was put up for two years it was not because of the Government of the Government of Catalonia or because of the leaders of the parliamentary groups that we are here, it was put up because of a Constitutional Court that... obviously, on the part of the People's Party at that time the Government of the Spanish State appealed to it, it was two years, until July 26, 2019, pending the absolute sentence, like today. That's right, two years lost, two years lost that this imposes, right now, would have been implanted long and long ago. Therefore, if this tax is not on the march today, unfortunately, it is not for the vocation of the government but for the problems arising from a judgment or an appeal to the Constitutional Court, that it has no other interest than to put up with the implementation of this tax. Therefore, compromise stratègique that is deployed from 2017. It's a complex tax, it's also worth it, because often in this chamber we debate taxation in general terms, but when you land on concrete, the functions and functions of the Catalan tax agency have to do complex tasks, and in this concrete case it is good that we all know that we are ahead of a very complex tax, a very important challenge for the functionality of the Catalan tax agency. We're talking about a massive character tax that's not the speciality of our taxes, as you know. In any case, to reaffirm the commitment of our parliamentary group, and which seems to me to be totally shared with the government, with the struggle against climate change. It seems to us that it remains very explicit and demonstrated this commitment to the economic and social recovery plan that the government's execution approved last July. A plan that has as a central element all that are the projects derived from the ecological transition. A plan fully in line with the guidelines of the 2030 Agenda, the European Green Pact and the Recovery Plan adopted by the European Union in May. And so, in this sense, the government's stake in the fight against climate change is absolutely strategic. And in any case, I end up saying that I decree, step by step, let's go, I believe, among all helping the citizens, helping the administrations, helping all the folds we can go adapting to these circumstances, which are dramatic and very complex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr.Jordi Munell. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.183.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Vice-President and Councillor of the Economy, Members, Members, Members, late afternoon. Well, in this case, I follow the line of the Deputy Saved Companion as matches, so we give support to the Government. A government, when there are exceptional situations, must take exceptional measures. A government has to deal, sometimes, therefore, with decisions that vagnate aimed at facilitating the life of the citizenry in circumstances such as the pandemic that is affecting us and its heavy social and economic impact. And, therefore, we are not strangers and, on the contrary, we share the fact that the government has been making decisions in this sense long ago. The other day the Economic Reactivation Commission compared the employers; some of the deputies and deputies that we are here, so we were there too. And it's a business manual, isn't it? : what can a government do in its exercise to help stimulate the economy and society in times of crisis, in this case, social and economic crisis survives, eh? And then the stock show came out, didn't it? So making it easier for companies to borrow through credits and endorsements – it has the problem of debt. Making public investment, huh? , therefore, Keynesian politics. It's a stigma, it's a tractor, it's public administration. Subsidies can be given directly to companies, entities or it can facilitate liquidity. Liquidated with? Stop paying, adjourning, moratorium on taxes, taxes, contributions, etc. So, this is manual, and the employers asked for it. What do we see? Home, here we see, we have said it many times, the little capacity that the Government of Catalonia has and that our country has. More subsidies, more liquidity? We have the resources we have, we don't have any more, but we already know where they are and they're not coming and they're not coming back, huh? More public investment? We also know what we have and we know our ability and we can't resort to external markets, huh? And, therefore, it is always up to us continually to pressure the central government, the state government, which is the one who has and sends resources. In this sense, the other day we also discussed the final destiny of these European foundations, therefore, which are being announced. Will they finally get to our country? In what quantity? Will they directly reach the productive economy, the economy that generates jobs? This is a question that we asked just last week to Councilman Tremosa, in this sense, as the European expert as well as as the company manager. Therefore, we see that we have a certain limitation. In fact, in the morning, too, with the question made to the councillor, he also posed himself with... Says: "What does the government do for trade, for inn, for restoration, for tourism? What does he give them? Of course, it's that giving, giving, we have the capacity, as I say, the economics we have, and taxation is also very limited. Actually, so did this morning, huh? In Catalonia there are approximately 43,000, 44,000_million euros in taxes, but from these only 3,400, 3,500 do so directly to the Catalonia Tax Agency, which, therefore, are the liquids we have here, because the rest do not have them. The rest are part of these liquidity advances of the liquidity funds that the government is giving from little to little – the state government. And, therefore, the capacity of the Government of Catalonia is limited, taxingly very poor, huh? In this sense. Very uneven, isn't it? Approximately an 8_per_cent of what it gives the fiscal capacity of Catalonia. Of these, we know who they are too: the transmission tax, the document tax, the tourist tax, the CO2 tax. The Generalitat can pay some other tribute, yes. We've already done that, too, haven't we? Let us also remember how many judgments or annulments of the Constitutional Court we have had on propitious taxes, eh? That, therefore, is practically the last resort that this government had before the prohibition of being able to resort to external market finance, as do the governments of a normal and current country. Therefore, we have this tax capacity. And from these, the government does its dues. And of these, try to look at which of these can be, therefore, an aid to the productive economy, to the small businessman, to the families, and, listen'm, to which of these I can make them a moratorium or an adjournment. And that's what this decree says to you today, in two situations: one that affects a lot of people and, as it was said before, autonomies and professionals, huh? in the case, therefore, that vans, small vans, vehicles that facilitate what is their mobility. And, therefore, to postpone this CO2 tax, which was predicted to be liquidated by this year 2020 on the 2019 cents, and that already, as we know, on April 28th, it has already been made an adjournment and now what is being done again is another adjournment, it leaves no effect the recovery of the 2020 liquidation for 2019 effects and it is announced that the census will be made on December 31st 2020. Therefore, this is also an economic manual measure. To postpone the collection of taxes and taxes. And the same goes with the tourist tax. This tax, which is collected and disposed of by the tourist accommodation companies, ends up being liquid that the government can provide these companies so that they don't have to be disposed of, huh? And they'll pay him more in advance. Therefore, it is a way to help this sector that is also going through it badly. And, therefore, it gives them the capacity if they want or don't want, because, as has been said, there are unequal effects on certain areas, on certain sectors and, therefore, they can place them. And so, in this sense, we will obviously give all the support and, more so – as we say – we think it is what the government has to do. The government is accused of not being sensitive to environmental issues, that it is not sensitive to the different application of this tax, that it is not sensitive..., that should facilitate mobility with public transport, etc. It also allows 'but with the theme of mobility with public transport, also, another xifra that came out to the Commission of Social and Economic Reactivation. In fact, they compared the leaders of Foment – among others – and reminded us of a xifra: 28,000_million euros, lack of investment in infrastructure – and therefore, among them, public transport – by the State to Catalonia. 28,000_million euros. They say fast. And here we are discussing to postpone, we still do not reach 40_million euros or 70_million euros. Esconti'm, 28,000_million euros of infrastructure deficit. Amongst them public transport, among them Rodalies, with which Mr Cid, who said « man, why do we not facilitate unity with Rodalies? We'd agree if we had these 28,000_million. You are also in a position to facilitate this from the central government in which you are empowered. I would point out – to finish, already – two more things than anything that has been said. One, in the case of..., specifically in the tax on CO2 emissions, takes advantage of this decree other than to make this postponement or postponement of the liquidation and eliminate 2019, for one that recognizes some concerns that they had reached the members of the Economic Commission and the same Vice-President and Councillor, which is, for example, the motorcycle sector, the Motorcycle Federation, motorcycle manufacturers. And, therefore, a different formula of calculation is incorporated here and above all with specific categories of motorcycles that did not have their emissions recognized in the technical file. And, therefore, I think that the government here has also been sensitive, in this sense, to the demands and petitions of a sector. So, I think that's what a government has to do. And on the other hand, also another claim that we also collected members of the Economic Commission from different parties, and the same vice president, which is the subject of classic vehicles. This is also a singularity, a certain type of vehicle that there are thousands in Catalonia and that, therefore, will now also enjoy a 100_per_cent bonus if they complete certain requirements. Therefore, in this sense the government – as we have said – has been sensitive to the demands of these sectors. I believe that if, in the future, there are different ways of making calculations or applying this tax to different types of vehicles – those that are not censused in Catalonia, those that have very small differences or mobilizations and can be shown and we can articulate formulas to calculate it – I believe that just as it has been done with the motorcycle sector and with the classic car sector, I believe that the Government can also be sensitive to this application of this kind of tax that was intended – as we said – to environmental policies and between them also to the action of the Parliament of the Province of Catalonia. I don't add anything more because it's already said a lot. Therefore, proceeding on our part with the approval of this decree. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.184.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.185.0	For contradictions with the Lord Saved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.186.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.187.0	Very quickly. Mr. Salvadó said: "It is not possible to exempt from the payment of the interest of delay because the Spanish tax law does not allow it. The arguments. First, we are debating a law precisely to allow the adjournment of a tax that, according to the General Tax Law, is not up to date. Article 65.2.f of the General Tax Law. And second, the General Tax Law has not changed since March until now. And in the month of March it was approved the Decree Law 6 that allowed in the first place the adjournment, in the second place exempting from the payment of interest of delay and, in the third place, did not ask, did not require that it was the interest – the contributor – that asked it, but that the adjournment applied of offices.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Savado? Thirty seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.189.0	Yes, very short. It's true that the placement in this royal decree is different from the previous one. In the past – as he has pointed out and acknowledged right now – there was a systemic upsurge for all taxpayers. In this concrete case, it is a specific adjournment only for those contributors who proceed to ask for it. Therefore, it has a different legislative treatment and, therefore, it also has different consequences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate, the validation of this decree will be voted on, like the rest of the points, at the end of this session. [[Report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Policies for the Millennium of the Quality of Life of the Great Gent]] [[260-00002/12]] Let us continue now with the following point, which is the fifth, and which correspond to the debate of the report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Policies for the Millennium of the Quality of Life of the Great People. In the first place, the chairman of the committee will speak to present the work of the committee, which is Mrs Carmen de Rivera. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.191.0	Thank you, President. Illustrative Members... A greeting also to all those people who have collaborated in the writing of this report and who are following us telematically and who have certainly accompanied us in person if the conditions have been allowed. We are here today at the plenary session of the Parliament of Catalonia to present the report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Policies for the Improvement of the Quality of Life of Older Persons. As you will recall, this committee was set up with three objectives: to study the political measures and legislative changes necessary to address the problems of the elderly, to analyse the treatment of the problems of the elderly in other comparable regions, and to give the voice of the elderly in this chamber. In this regard, while it was very important to analyse and address the needs that the elderly community might have at the time of this commission, it has now proved essential. As you well know, the health crisis of the Covid-19 has led to a social and economic crisis that has hit society in general very hard, but also – and especially – the elderly. Residences, the loneliness of the elderly, poverty in this sector of the population, the state of health, among others, are many of the problems that affect the elderly and that have been aggravated by the Covid-19. At this time of uncertainty and, why not say so, also of a certain fear, we must be particularly sensitive to the problems of the elderly, accompany them, be aware of them and, ultimately, make policies aimed at improving the quality of life of these people. This has been an objective shared by all speakers and Members. As chairman of the study committee, allow me to thank on behalf of all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to help and for the participation of all the entities and experts who have appeared in the committee. Each and every one of these appearances has helped to enrich and complete the report that we are presenting today. I would also like to thank all the Members who participated in the committee, the Members Najat Driouech and Eva Granados, as Vice-President and Secretary of the Bureau, and the representatives who spoke from the various parliamentary groups: Elisabeth Valencia, Yolanda López, Raúl Moreno, Imma Gallardo, Santi Rodríguez and Vidal Aragonés. To all of them, thank you for your cooperation and for the good tone that has been maintained at all times. I sincerely believe that we have done a good job, which we should be proud of. Now is the time for the Government, but not just the Government, also the municipalities and parliaments, to use this report to take as many measures as possible to improve the lives of the elderly. I am sure that I am speaking on behalf of all the members of the committee in thanking the work of all the staff of Parliament who have helped us, and in particular the lawyer of the committee, Esther Andreu, and the manager Eduardo Principal, who have advised us and involved themselves at the highest level with the work and purposes of the committee. And we must also thank, as you know, Secretary General Xavier Muro, who has also been involved and has intervened directly so that this report can be delivered and read out in today's plenary session. For the last time, this is probably the last time I'm headed to the House of Commons after eleven intense years. As the Veteran Member of the Chamber, I remember how in these years, in this Chamber, there have been very convulsive moments, moments of absolute discrepancy, moments to forget, but I would like to put in value how it also produces moments of agreement between all political forces, moments where we park our differences and agree measures that improve or pretend to improve the lives of the citizens of Catalonia. This report is not a good example. It has been a pleasure and an honor to represent the city of Catalonia during all these years, and I am especially pleased to finish with this report, which I hope will be approved unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.192.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Thank you for everything. We shall then proceed to the speeches of the parliamentary groups, to mark their position. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Elisabeth Valencia. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.193.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I was going to say « members of the Government, but once again the Government has shown that it is not interested in the policies of older people at all. To the facts I refer: the government bench, empty and we here presenting a report that we have produced in Parliament for two and a half years. It's pretty unfortunate, actually. I would like to thank, as the driving group of this committee, all the parliamentary groups for their work in this committee, which aims to improve the lives of the elderly and all the staff in Parliament who have helped us, and a great deal, throughout this time. I would also like to thank the sector's entities, employers, social partners and all the experts who have attended. I am addressing you, that you will be seeing us from the Parliament Canal, since by the current circumstances you may be here face-to-face. Thank you very much for our time, for your knowledge and for your contributions, which have helped the groups to fulfil the objective of this committee, which is to make the report of conclusions. I would also like to address to all families who have lost a loved one during this health crisis, to those who have lost it because of the Covid, and also to families who have lost loved ones because of a disease during this period or who have lost loved ones because of the collapse of the health system and the collapse suffered in the residences. Go ahead my support and that of my group to face these irreparable losses. From Citizens we promoted this commission almost two years ago, because the policies of care for the elderly needed many urgent improvements and improvements. But I have to be frank and say that at the time nothing made us think that the sector, with the weakness that it was already suffering, had to face the terrible blows of a health crisis that has been devastating, a health crisis that has devastated, leading the lives of thousands of older people ahead. Gentlemen of the Government, caring for the elderly must be, together with ensuring health care, the most urgent and important thing the Government has to do, and now more than ever. The social collapse in residences cannot and should not be repeated. It is extremely urgent that there be protection material in the residences, that periodic PCRs be carried out, that there be proof, that there is regular disinfection, that there is control of everything that happens in the residences, that you do not link the directors of the residences with contradictory protocols, with excessive administrative bureaucracy, and that you facilitate their work, and that you have them to face up to these new challenges that the sector needs. In addition, the sector needs to be distinguished by recognizing and improving the working conditions of workers in the sector. But, apart from these changes, which are changes that are needed immediately, the residential sector and the whole sector that affects the elderly, in Catalonia needs structural changes, which are of social justice and moral justice. Because of the need for these structural changes, it is precisely for this reason that we in the parliamentary groups have drawn up this report of conclusions, after listening to the whole sector, to representatives of the elderly. From our political differences, we have been able to agree on what unites us to push forward these measures, which are very necessary, and now more than ever. Our conclusions deal with different aspects, but we would like to stress in particular that we are very concerned about the situation of people who are in a situation of dependency or maximum vulnerability. This issue, from our point of view, is one that should not let the Government sleep. Because a society is distinguished by how it treats its children and its elders, and in both these things this government has an absolute suspension. The Government should not sleep quietly knowing that many people are in a situation of dependence and are suffering in their homes because they are not being attended to by the long waiting list that we have in Catalonia. In Catalonia we have, as I said, Spain's largest waiting list for dependency, Spain's largest waiting list for access to residences, the waiting list reaches four years in much of Catalonia's territory, and this cannot be normalized. We refuse. In our community we also suffered a great deal of delay in the assessment of the law of dependence, in the management of the PIA, and this cannot be blamed, the Government of Catalonia, to the Government of Spain, because that is a competition here, it is autonomous, it is Catalan, it is more Catalan than the Moreneta. Catalonia is the autonomous community that the least dependent incorporates into the system, and we have more than 74,000 people, unfortunately, in what we call "the limbo of dependence, who are people with the recognized right without being allocated the benefit or recourse to which they are entitled. Look, with this data, I wouldn't sleep quietly. I wouldn't sleep quietly because while you're asking for a country here, you don't know how to manage an autonomous community. Or they don't want, which is the most unfortunate thing, and they leave thousands of older people on the road at the stake. They don't care, and when they get to be cared for, they arrive with a high physical and cognitive deterioration to the residences by the long waiting list that we have in Catalonia. From the citizens' point of view, this precarious situation of the implementation of the Unit Law requires, in our view, two immediate solutions: the first, that instead of asking for a negotiating table of privileges for the independenceists or their own, that they know how to reach agreements to ask, once and for all, for better funding of the Dependency Law. And the second solution would be, as they have done in other autonomous communities, to use the autonomous budget to reduce waiting lists. As I have already indicated, this has been done in other autonomous communities, and can be done. We do not understand why it is not done at once in Catalonia. Well, in our conclusions we have also promoted measures that are necessary, such as having once and for all a law of great people in Catalonia, measures that we have been demanding for many years. The imperative need to update the portfolio of social services to improve the care that people are receiving; justice measures, such as improving and recognizing once and for all the working conditions of workers in the sector; measures to improve participation, we also propose in the report; measures to combat loneliness, a problem that unfortunately happens to many people in Catalonia; measures also necessary to combat ill-treatment, measures to ensure care for people with Alzheimer's disease and their families... measures, in short, which are urgent and necessary to have the structural changes that the model of care for older people requires. Here is a work done, there is a consensus of the parliamentary groups. We will hand over the document to the Government to value it, to evaluate it, and above all to use it. We will also hand over the conclusions of this committee to the sector that works and attends to older people in Catalonia, and we hope, with our hand in our heart, that these measures that we propose will be useful to them. Finally, I want to have a memory for all the older people who have contributed, with their work and effort, to leaving us a better society. We can't fail, we owe them who we are, we can't turn our backs on them when they need them the most. Soon, the older ones will be us, don't forget. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.194.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Raúl Moreno has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.195.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs. Today we present the conclusions of the Commission of Study of Millorament of the Living Conditions of the Great Gent. A commission that began to work at the beginning of the year 2019, and that concludes today more marked by the electoral calendar than by the end of the issues to be dealt with. Of the seventy-five participants that we had planned, we have been able to substantiate twenty-five appearances, and this has been so, not so much because of the willingness of the same deputies and deputies, but because of the situation donated by a predictable public fact electoral summons for President Torra the month of generation, later for the pandemic, and, finally, for the hope, somehow, feeling that the inability of President Torra has brought about. Therefore, it is more appropriate not to make this report disappear and that we should recommence our own legislature, which is one of the problems that we have when the legislatures in this Parliament, above all, do not last what should last. Therefore, it is a committee with a very broad objective, we have to talk about many things, many fears. We had to talk about transport, we couldn't talk enough, about means of communication, of participation, of the right to a dignified death..., of many other aspects that also have to do with the life of the great people, which, at the end of the day, are the same aspects that have to do with the life of any of us, why does it affect all of us, right? They are citizens of full right and, therefore, all social, economic, participation aspects... are those who also influence their living conditions. Yes, we have been able to focus on some important issues for the great people as well. And I want to start by saying that from the reading of the conclusions, I think there is a huge consensus on how to improve the living conditions of the great people, of all the political forces, with some different aspects. The same consensus also exists to tell us that some of the conclusions that are being made have already been made for years, and that it gives years without concrete policies of the best of the great fan people that we are now still in a much more haste to be able to put them on the march. The aging of the population, which is imminent, which is here on the side, the impoverishment, the increase in inequalities, housing, loneliness... are problems that will focus the policies of the future, but that must already focus the current policies. In Catalonia, 19_percent of the population is more than sixty-five years old. Like most European countries, the population sees a process of aging because it increases the pes of the big people and decreases the pes of the young people. At the same time, the inflation rate in Catalonia is lower than in the European medium, but over-envelope, in change, is higher than in the European medium than in Catalonia. This also has a lot to see with which our life expectancy is superior to that of other countries. This increase in hope had also been accompanied by greater fragility, especially in higher age groups, which also coincided with the average age of people living in residential centres. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites for Forwarding focus our proposals in three ways: we want very active people, self-employed and caring. Being a big person isn't just about being a sick person. I can preserve the dignity of the person above all else; the great people continue to feel people to whom I must treat with respect, with dignity, asking us what it is that they want and defend them before others. Take care of your essence like people. May he respect his beliefs and his way of thinking and seeing the world. We want active people, who participate in society, who have a presence, who listen to their voice. We want to see the media, we want urban planning policies to also think about them, about accessibility, about transport, about continuing training. We want safe and adapted habitats that are not converted into the wing cell. We also need to think about the problems that the maintenance of housing will entail in the future. At these times, a large number of large people live in a homestead. This will not be so for twenty years: there will be an important share of large people living in a logger habitat, and the logger, and therefore the support of the usual logger habitat, will also be one of the variables that we will have to put into the protection policies of the great people. We want a large, active and autonomous people, with the ability to decide how they want to live their lives, who fully enjoy their freedom. We are not talking about a uniform collection with common interests, we are talking about different people with different interests. We do not want a large public administration protected people; it is the public administration, it is the governments, who have to put the necessary resources because they can sort out those that most fit their needs. A large, active, autonomous people, and, as I said, beware. The age is not synonymous with malalty, I said before, even though this may lead to more frailty, and the great people are mostly home. We all need to have a good service of cures when we grow up, but we also need to live the old age fully, actively, participating in society and demanding the rights to be close to us. Rights which, of course, our parliamentary group has laid on the table in this Parliament, with the requirement of a law of the great people, in fact, we were the first parliamentary group to propose it, which we are still waiting for. This law of the great people will also not be possible in this legislature. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, we want the great people to be able to wrap up at home until their state of health recommends that they vacate a residence or any other residential resources. To do this, we need some powerful home care services, with more hours of care, with more attention, with more types of care, with more social connection, with more relation to the third sector, and also with protection from cases of rape or non-vulgated solvation. And to make it bet for an important improvement in the working conditions and wages of domestic workers and domestic workers. And if we do well, we will have a nixol of creation of jobs, phonally feminine, that must be of quality; to take good care generates rich economic and social. We need quality residences, where it is pleasant to live, more prepared to attend to a population each time more dependent, with more dependence; to attend to the sexual diversity of the LGTBI collectivities. Some residences with public health care that guarantee all the rights of residents. And to do it once and for all to honor the work of the professionals, increase the rates, the rates and, yes, also the subs. We cannot ask for quality in the service and do not correspond to a quality of the work conditions offered. When we talk about residences we have a second house and, therefore, also other residential resources, assisted apartments with services, shared apartments..., both for people who are large as people with disabilities or people with mental health problems. But let's not fool ourselves: we're late. We need to develop home care policies. According to the data of the Government of Catalonia, March 2020, of this year, twenty-thousand great people expected to enter a public residence. Either we make it an area of social health care or we can't give out residential demand growing from our own years. We've talked about dependency, and, yes, we've done a better job of financing dependency on the part of the state government. It is a demand of Catalonia and it is a demand of all the autonomous communities of the rest of Spain, but other autonomous communities, with a greater underfunding than ours, have been able to narrow the terms, they have been able to make policies that have come out of the cua, the vagó de cua, as is Catalonia, which has the list of hope by higher dependence on Spain, and that, at the rate of three years later, we will cheat six years on leaving this list of hope to zero. We could talk about non-volgued loneliness, which is the great pandemic of our time. And before a society that has become more individualistic, we need to strengthen the ties of our great people, their relationship with the way of life and with the social environment, because the loneliness involves a sense of salvation, because it does, because it envelops, because it does not allow us to detect more critical situations, such as those of violence, that the great people suffer in silence, because this is normally produced from the familiar environment. These are just some of the aspects of the proposals that we are gathering in this document. And I would like to end by thanking Congresswoman Carmen de Rivera, whom I wish all the uncertainties of the world and all the luck. Many thanks for sharing this year with you, it was a pleasure, and I hope we'll see each other out of here and see each other soon. Also... I do it as the President of the Commission, but also as the fellow Member, to all the Members and Members, speakers, to the electorate, the manager, to the twenty-five comparable entities to bring their expertise; I think we have a good full road, if the Government wants to make it serve for whom are the policies that must mark the future of the best of the living conditions of the great people. I'm done. What we do now depends on the servants of the future. I should therefore like to think about the current needs, but it also foresees future needs: how will my generation live, for example, in forty years' time. And how hard it is to know how we're going to live from here to forty years, which is best to plant ourselves as we want to live when we're wrapped up. And therefore, we need to know who the function is, what the influence of social networks will be, how we can have connected residences, how we can make our space safe and assisted. And, therefore, many reflections that must lead us to know..., to begin to shape the aging policies of the great people to have a quality of life in a future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. Correspond now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, a turn for Mrs Yolanda López. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.197.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... – I was going to say councillor, but he's not here – good thing it's late for everyone. First of all, I would like to thank all the people who have been part of this committee, an honour to have been with them, with deputies, deputies, the lawyer, manager... You, Carmen, the deputy Carmen de Rivera, the president, thank you for everything, for your patience and for sharing and coordinating us, and especially for the attendees. Talking about the quality of life of the great people is talking about the quality of life of our state of well-being, a state of well-being built out of the generosity of our elders. However, the truth is that after a decade lost from Mariano Rajoy's governments, reforms, wage cuts, cuts in public services and austerity policies for the entire citizenry and tax exemptions for the richest, our welfare state has been fractured. And this is the central element when we talk about the quality of life of the great people. We are talking about labour reform, the dismantling of the productive fabric, closure and privatization and cuts in public services, and we are talking about the damage to the pensions that have broken our social and intergenerational pact. According to the Idescat, currently in Catalonia the older people represent 18.7_per_cent of our population. Public administrations have two essential tasks: on the one hand, guaranteeing their rights and coverage, rights such as economic autonomy sufficient to cover basic needs or dependency coverage and, on the other hand, ensuring a social environment, a network, a warm and friendly fabric with the elderly. And all this goes by strengthening the state of well-being, putting care in the center. We must make a clear bet on active ageing; ageing must be a positive experience. In Catalonia, 22_per_cent of older people live alone. Loneliness in old age should make us react as a society to the way in which the participation of older people by institutions is promoted. Retirement pensions account for most of the social security protection scheme. However, in 2013 the PP was able to impose a reform of the public pension system that favored private insurers. Also the cuts of the PP in 2015, together with the 4,134_million_de_euro cut in social spending by the Generalitat of Catalonia in recent years, make Catalonia in a critical state in terms of care for dependence. Since the adoption of the Law on Dependency, it has not been possible to assess about sixty_ thousand persons; for the same reasons, it has not been possible to estimate about 250,000 persons from the individual care programme for dependent persons. Catalonia's budget agreement in Comú Puemera with the Government was the first stone to reverse ten years of tariff freeze in the sector by the Generalitat de Catalunya. But an event as unexpected and devastating as the Covid-19 puts our welfare system even more in jeopardy, which requires greater investment and clear defence on the part of all governments. José Manuel Ramírez, president of the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, said during his appearance in this commission, and I quote textually: "There is a data that should make us all reflect: and it is that while this attendance, which can last an hour, a person in a situation of Catalan dependence will die without receiving the provision or service that corresponds to him by right, and this is a palm and it is a terrible data. I totally agree with Mr Ramírez. Since 2015, Catalonia has maintained the same waiting list: more than 75,000 people recognized as dependents do not receive any service or benefit. In addition, some 23,000 dependents have to be added to the assessment. Catalonia is the territory of the Spanish state that has been the least beneficiary since 2015: only 22_per_cent, when the state average is 43_per_cent. In Catalonia, more than 64,000 older people live in residences as demand and the waiting list grew exponentially. Instead of creating new places, the Government agreed with private companies. It is urgent that Catalonia re-edit the mercantilized model of care for people, which has proved to be a niche of business, inefficiency and exhausted, a model that has shown all its serious shortcomings, inadequacies with the health crisis of the Covid, both in the levels of contagion and in the deaths in the residences. We need a model that is more respectful of the freedom and privacy of older people than macro-residences and bets to maximize autonomy and personal independence and bets on smaller living units. The outsourcing of health care cannot be continued, and women workers in the dependency sector cannot continue to be precarious. It is time to put an end to the bad conditions in which they work. And this means talking about decent wages, and for that it is essential that administrations know their responsibilities. These are just some of the data from a more extensive analysis that we have been able to carry out during these months of work, an analysis that shows us the need to change the model of attention to our large people, which goes through greater political and economic commitment on the part of all governments. From Catalonia in Comú Podemos we will defend today the same as we did during the last session of this committee, considering that this committee required a maximum demand and commitment on the part of all parliamentary groups. And more, after the situations we have experienced with the Covid-19, which has left in question the protection of our elders and the need for society to make a clear bet for the great people. Following the logic that we have advocated in the committee, we have called for the separation of votes on those points that address the conclusions of the parliamentary groups of the Government and the PP, because we do not understand that the parliamentary groups of the Government have put forward such simple proposals to get out of the way, above all it is a pity that the Parliamentary Group of the Left Republican Party did not want to take advantage of this step and these conclusions in order to at least be able to compensate for the disaster of the Department of Social Affairs in the management of the residences of our elders. On the other hand, we will also vote against the points put forward by the People's Party, basically obviating their actions against improving the quality of life of older people, such as lowering pensions, promoting precarious employment and promoting the mercantilizing model. And, on the other hand, we also comment on it during the commission, it is a pity that Citizens wanted to make their own flag of this commission looking for headline in press and photos. That is why we have asked for a separate vote on some of its points, understanding that we cannot colour this parliamentary work with political colours, in which not only political groups, but also civil society, are involved through appearances. With regard to the rest of the points, we will vote in favour of them all, bearing in mind that concrete and concise conclusions have been drawn which need to be put into effect as soon as possible. All the resources need to be put in place to improve the quality of life of our older adults, making a clear commitment to active ageing, ending loneliness, betting on economic sufficiency, working against discrimination and abuse, changing the model of dependency, and that goes so far as to end the long waiting lists and betting on a model of attention to demercantilized dependence, betting on personal autonomy and quality occupation. From Catalunya in Comú Puem, we will remain firm to our principles, we will continue to prioritize and defend that it is necessary to open a new stage on the model of care to our great people, guaranteeing the dignity of users and professionals, being aware that this is a key piece for strengthening our welfare state, as it is the fourth pillar of the welfare state. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP-Crida Constituent, I now correspond the return to the deputy Vidal Aragonés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.199.0	We want to start our intervention with some thought ahead of what we're after – many times the committees also learn things – from this committee and a first question is about the proper concept of big people and what we're after is that we have to take away from a concept where the concept ‘big people are related to age, or it's related to the state of health and very little – and it's going to sound very topical, but sometimes it's done – with the fact that we have or don't have nets or nets. We need to get away from this. It's not a mechanical concept. It's not a closed concept. It is an absolutely open concept and above all where there is an element of self-recognition. Honestly there will also be who will never recognize in the great people and this does not make him run away from the great people, but it is important that we have this preliminary reflection. And the second, the one that keeps relationship from a quantitative point of view, important is the great people from the qualitative point of view, from which they have brought to society and their knowledge point and everything that it means, but also what it will mean quantitatively, already means our society and what will permeate all the political action of the next years, the unquestionable increase of the great people will be a reality that, obviously, any state, any society has to analyze with the utmost seriousness with political proposals. And that's what I've been humbly trying to do. Let's just explain, don't give us more time, five blocks of proposals that we have made in relation to the conclusions. First block, the one that keeps the relationship with which we could call being able to live where it is wanted – now explain to me what that means to us – and being able to live more autonomously. "If you want for us it means ensuring that there may be large people who continue to live at home; with the reality of our pensions or there are active public policies or maybe this is not even guaranteed. You'll be here to lose your habitation when you stop working. As well as anyone who wants to go with a shared project has the follow-up of the Public Administration, but on the assumption that it is also – not our model – but if there is who is asking – and there are virtually endless lists of expectations – large people's residences, that the Public Administration can guarantee you a large people's residence. First block we've planted. Second, one who sees a lot of the hand of what is going to be building the welfare state. For us, the welfare of our society had not yet been built. We were on the way, but either we ended up with the details that started from the year 2010 and, for another band, we developed the legislation in this state case of 2006 dependency, which was a good way to start or we can't even talk about being well. The third block of proposals we have made; it may seem that it has a lot to do with the second, but it's different from the second: So it could be strengthening the public sector. We don't have the capacity to see real policies for the big people if this doesn't come from the hands of a strong public sector. A public sector, in the first place, that plans activity and plans action. This cannot be left to the arbiter of what they want to do or not to do the business, because if we leave it to the arbiter of what they want or do not want to do the business, we are not guaranteeing for everyone the same possibilities and, therefore, look to strengthen the public sector and, for us, that has been one of the historical proposals that we have made, to recover the management of the residents of great people, that today is managed in a private way. Four blocks of proposals we've made: the one we've practically named emergency or emergency, relating large people's residences to the effects of the Covid. It was a necessity and it completely transformed the commission, but we also had to make proposals and needed them. And we, among the many proposals they make, some of us seemed essential, for example, to leave empty places to the residents of large people in order to be able to respond to the rebounds. That, when we did it in July, I had a theoretical perspective. Today, unfortunately, it's a practice. Also eliminate the EARs, that health care is for everyone guaranteed in public form, because we have already seen what private means. And, for another band, go to a ratio of one to four in relation to a gerocultora, four users. And lastly, the conditions of the workers and the workers of the residence of great people. A minimum wage of EUR 1,200 which, moreover, if we are talking about public tenders, we could have guaranteed some of this Parliament. And the fifth and last of the blocks, the one that relates to pensions. We don't have skills in pensions in our country, but we have a reality of practically two decades of playing this and playing with topical pension speeches. Until today, the cost to the State of pensions was practically zero, because the workers paid our contributions, we had a common job, it was an exercise of intergenerational solidarity and so pensions were covered. If this doesn't work now, obviously, the assumptions must also be taken into account for pensions. And then he thought, too: when we talk about great people we have to have an LGTBI look, we have to have a feminist look, that runs away from education and, sometimes, also, that you think the oci must be absolutely a necessity when we are talking about great people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. There is the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.201.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, start this intervention by repeating, without repeating, all the graces that the rest of the spokesman has formulated. To mention, yes, the thanks expressed to the chairman of the committee, not so much as the chairman of the committee, but also because of the fact that, therefore, she has announced to us that she is putting her seat in the committee. Therefore, to thank him also all these years that we have had the opportunity to coincide in parliamentary tasks, for his attitude and his collaboration. They'll let me. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I must also make a chapter of brief apologies, because we have not been able to follow the committee with all the punctuality and with all the intensity that the theme deserves – we are living to solve it. The problem is that we are a few Members for many committees; we do not worry, in a few months we will leave it solved and this will not happen again. It is a commission, without any doubt, that has come marked in its final stage for the health crisis that we have experienced, but above all, for the great impact that this health crisis has had on the great people, it has had in the residencies, and, therefore, we have not been able to escape, huh? In the conclusions, reference is made to this situation. Even though the analysis of everything that went on during the health crisis came from the committee investigating residences, it was inevitable that in this committee, therefore, you went out on this topic, and therefore you made reference. Our group was to present conclusions, large groups of conclusions, of which seven have been approved – they have been incorporated into the final conclusions – which I think is a bit of a replete that there was a strong enough consensus among the majority of groups regarding the policies that are needed. We, among those who have joined, refer to the fact that reaching sixty-five years does not mean moving from a situation of activity to a situation of inactivity– on the contrary–, but that from sixty-five years on, in any case, it leaves the work activity but continues the vital activity, and, therefore, all these people, from their knowledge and their experiences..., it is important to share them, it is important to channel them, for the benefit of the society's conjunction, but also as a factor conducive to the well-being and promotion of the person's salvation. We also have the priority of people to be able to wrap up to their own home, as far as possible enveloping their families. And this, without any doubt, requires specific services that guarantee quality of life, and therefore strengthen the services of home care, without losing sight either, obviously, access to residential centers when the need for care of the person requires it, not before, right? , only when the needy of the person requires it. And in this sense, as far as the residence system is concerned, therefore, it is practically..., it is collapsing – because there are waiting lists, as has already been said – places are insufficient, and therefore it is necessary to make an effort to provide nine public places for residential centres. But they also take into account territorial criteria, to allow those people who end up feeling institutionalized to become Romanesque in an environment as close as possible to the family environment. The compatibility of the social character of residences with health care is an element that I believe has become more replete than ever with the health crisis. And we did, too, a special attention in the health field, didn't we? , because the great people, from the point of view of salvation, suffer many chronicities and, in this sense, fall from the system of salvation. But the systems of salvation, like the great people, also have chronicities, and these chronicities are the lists of waits for the system of salvation, which the most harm, precisely, is to the great people. Now, today, we need to say – we could say it to the government, but we can't say it there because it's not there – that to the primary attention that, precisely, it's a fundamental piece in the attention of the chronicities of the great people, they're getting out of hand, precisely for the col·lapse and for the attention that the system has, these people, and that's what we're worried about. Also a chapter on pensions. Certainly, to clarify to Mrs López that who lowered the pensions are his partners in Madrid, the Socialist Party. In 2010, Mr. Zapatero froze the pensions with a 3-per-cent CPI environment, so he reduced the pensions. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] a 3-per-cent. The People's Party was to ensure that pensions did not fall when there was a negative CPI, and that way they pushed the pensions all the way there was a negative CPI. I read about the great people – I just went on, Vice President –, reviewed protocols for mistreatment, I think they are elements that have already been treated. And those that have not been incorporated: financing dependence – in some respects we disagree; we agree that it is necessary to improve the financing of dependence –, discrimination on grounds of age – should not be pleased that we are referring to the limitation of therapeutic effort, which is a flagrant discrimination that has occurred during this pandemic – are basically the two proposals that have not been incorporated. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.202.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.203.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs, in the first place, I would like to excuse the Councillor's absence, which, in the face of a change of agenda for a later time – I think that many of the MPs who are here know this – cannot accompany us today. Well, that said, as the previous Members have done, I would like to thank all the people who have made the proper development of the committee possible: the letter, the manager, the language and information services, and also, as it cannot otherwise be, the uixers, as well as the chairman of the committee, for her task, the Member Carmen de Rivera, who has always tried to seek the consent and agreement of all. Also to the rest of the companies that did not form part of this commission. We would like to thank, on behalf of the Republic Group, all the people, entities, experts who have participated in the committee and who have brought us closer to many of the realities that involve the great people. Talking about the big people isn't just talking about the pandemic. We face this challenge as an opportunity to look at what policy options exist for the collection to have a positive impact and who need a transformation to be more effective, as well as what changes can be made in the face of the transformation that has taken place with the passage of time or what are those aspects of one's daily life that we have no presence and on which to take note. The following population reports indicate that we are going to an aging population and that it is estimated that by 2050 the percentage of people older than sixty years will be already 38,3_per_cent; one of the most important segments of the population in society and that we are often not valued as they deserve, neither to them nor to all that they have brought to the length of their lives and continue to make to our society; a value that we have the obligation to preserve, transform and transfer to the younger generations. For this reason, we consider it appropriate to give a global reflection on the population sector as sensitive as the great people. As a company, we have to incorporate a joint vision into all those aspects that can improve residential and day-care services, both for the care of the user and the professionals in the sector. And yes, it must go further there. In the development of the sessions of the commission, the appearances have been able to plan and address the layout in a way that is full of the needs presented by the collection, the measures, programs, projects and policies relating to the attention addressed to the great people. But, given the conjuncture of the pandemic with which these comparisons have coincided, they have also allowed us to collect the perceptions of the sector in the context of the health crisis, which we are living, and which have shown the vulnerability of the residential system. The Republican Group, therefore, in our conclusions, we wanted to gather the observations and contributions that we believe should be the tool that allows the best of the life of the great people in all spheres; we fled from partyism and we took a broad, pragmatic look, to walk with no firmness to the absolutation of these objectives of global improvement. One of the main challenges we need to fight is the winging of the great people. For this reason, it is necessary to deploy specific actions to eliminate the loneliness of older people, with a clear orientation towards better social policies directed at them and working to eliminate the risk of social exclusion, a risk that has worsened with Covid-19. We must escape from the usual parameters through which the vital moment of the great people is analyzed: dependence, services and social health services. For this reason, it is necessary to differentiate between the residential care system and the promotion of the personal autonomy of the large people, without oblivion of the permanent incompliment by the State for which it does the dependency system. And we denounce this flagrant violation of their commitment, which further exacerbates the vulnerability of dependent people. For this reason, we again claim the corresponding debt and demand correction of the current situation to guarantee the right to dependent persons. We bet for the zero-kilometer envelope, with a quality of the services that can guarantee the equity and equality of the territory. Also, in order to adequately care for large people in all their size, professional callers, but also for the dignity of the sector, especially..., or without leaving the auxiliaries of residential services behind. Nor can we forget, however, the work of private home care; as you know, a precarious, feminized, stigmatized sector and the predominance of migrating women. All in all, as the Government has already advanced, we consider that we have a new residential model; moreover, it will have to be defined for the following parameters: a zero-kilometre attention, the impulse of home care as a pal to the care model to help prevent dependency situations, social and health care integration, strengthening primary health care and relevant coordination with basic social service services. One of the taboos that affects the large people's collections is the violence and neglect of which they are victims, and which can be suffered by some family members, caregivers and professionals of some centers. We propose a follow-up of tools that also fall within the conclusions that we believe can reverse or delete and include identifying possible situations of abuse or abuse. To promote active aging, we need collaboration between the public sector and the social initiative in planning and forecasting, the incorporation of a gender perspective, the transmission of values to our children on respect for the great people, among other points, such as the use of the new technologies of information and communication. We are betting for the integration of social and health care, a model of shared governance in the spaces where there is interaction between the social sphere and that of salvation to the length of life, through the impulse of the creation of the agency that will depend on the two departments. The containment caused by the Covid-19 pandemic has posed a system of feverish and needy manifests that will need to work, but above all it has posed a manifest that it is necessary to change the social and home care model and establish protocols for critical solutions. Finally, I cannot say – after listening to some of their interventions – that we are still intelligent and that we are once again worthy of politics. The citizenry is asking us to cry out. Let us not use the ventilator of responsibilities and blames, because what is now very political of the de facto. Let's stop flirting with the populism to which the extreme right is poured, and let's run away from headlines and easy pullovers. They are difficult times and only with politics, reflection, debate, work – a lot of work – we will get out of it. Before I finish my intervention I would also like to dedicate my last words of intervention to her... not only of grace, as I said to the beginning of my intervention, to Congresswoman Carmen de Rivera, but to wish her luck and uncertainty at this new stage that begins. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.204.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Imma Gallardo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.205.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members of Parliament, before speaking of the conclusions of the committee, will allow me to recall from this rostrum that it was made public the judgment that unjustly condemned a part of the previous Bureau of this Parliament, formed by Lluís Corominas, the company deputy Lluís Guinó, Anna Simó and Ramona Barrufet, for, together with the President of the Parliament, Carme Forcadell, having facilitated the dialogue and debate at this House. From Juntos to Catalunya, we have committed ourselves to preserving the sovereignty of this Parliament, and we denounce the lack of essential democratic principles that affect the conjunction of Catalan society. And already entering the subject, we are discussing the resulting conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Policies for the Millorament of the Quality of Life of the Great Gent. By definition, a large person is a person whose age is advanced and presents the psychological and social attributes of old age. In particular, the step that represents the beginning of retirement marks symbolically this entry in the social category of the third age. Perhaps the first difficulty we already find in the name itself; said the deputy Aragonese: caldria reflect and debate on this – great people, great people, opinions, avies, old people, third age... – when this condition may not have to see only with age. In today's world, we find that the life span of people has widened; it comes to old age in better physical and mental conditions. Concepts such as active or healthy aging are well present. Food, physical exercise, active social and intellectual life are each time more relevancy. But now more concepts such as chronification and long-term cures are integrated every time. The later years of life have often been accompanied by other dependencies. For this reason, the care model is posing itself in question, since the residences of great people were thought for a reality, and this has changed. Only in fifteen years, the number of residents with high dependency needs and health needs has not only multiplied, but it represents almost three-quarters, when fifteen years ago it did not reach one-third. Thus, the current trends of some countries, such as Denmark, are precisely to enhance the quality of home care and also the equipments that offer a follow-up of the person in the different services he needs: from a suitable habitation with shared services to the residential center. And this I think is the challenge that we find ourselves in these moments. And it is to agree with all the actors involved a model of comprehensive attention to the great people of our country and to start developing the policies that allow us to develop it. The Commission held twelve sessions between the month of generation from 19 July to July of encanny, and at these sessions it gave substance to a total of twenty-five appearances, where it reflected and discussed the current model of residences, but also the problems of the social workers sector or the difficult problem of loneliness suffered by most large people. A thank you to all the people and entities who have appeared; I think that all folds are not much, and yet with some differences of model, we have agreed strongly on all groups. We also wanted to make a profitable visit to Igualada to meet first-hand the ViuB2 residential equipment, which depends on the Sociosanitary Consortium of Igualada, where the deputies wanted to be able to visit one of the housing floors for a resident who was waiting, after eight years of living there, to go to the residence that depends on the same consortium, because he already knew the professionals and equipment. The floors serve as a concierge for the twenty-four hours of the day and many other services: bugaderia, support for cleanness, bar and restaurant services, many activities... It is a model where it is an integral follow-up of the person for the different equipments that form part of it and that could be a good example to be inspired. Arriving here, I would like to thank President Carmen de Rivera and the rest of the Bureau for all the work they do in all the sessions, as well as the rest of the Members and Members, since it has been relatively easy to agree most of the times. Also a thank you to the late and to the assessor and to the rest of Parliament's staff, including support staff throughout the telematics issue. I think we were going to be the first telematics commission to be made, or first. From Juntes to Catalunya we have come to the following conclusions for what it does to the attention of the great people. Big people aren't big enough to listen and claim to be more considerate. The profile of residents has changed, due to the age of income, life expectancy, chronification or active aging, and the large equipment built back in years does not solve the new reality. The trend should be to prioritize suitable habitats in a shared space with services or to stay home with support. From the Juntas for Catalonia we think that we should contribute to the construction of a report that lengthens the identification of the old age with the disease and that of the residences with the centers where the people died. There is a new model of long-term residential care; the residences are large to live there, they are the homes of the residents. We also think that the social sector should be appreciated. It's been talked about, too. To this end, it is necessary to promote the continuing training of professionals in the social sector and to progressively equate their work with those in the health sector. Moreover, it may consider the structural lack of financing of the social service system in general and of the system of care for dependence in particular. We are betting for the creation of the social health agency in the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, after having returned to it the Directorate General of Personal Autonomy and Disability, and facing the aging and chronification of this agency. This agency should integrate both social and health care in order to ensure a better public response to people in vulnerable situations and in need of complex health and social care because of their fragility, dependence and social exclusion, and the chronicity of their conditions, thus overcoming the fragmentation of care processes and facilitating transition and continuity between the health and social system. A model focused on people, with health care guaranteed but eminently social; a system that you serve diverse people according to their vital moment and designed together with the social actors involved: local administrations, social workers, trade unions and employers, the third sector, the health and social sector, and also citizenship in general. We believe that I should review, once the worst of the health crisis has ended, the model of residential care for people with health and social needs. Residents must offer more health care, but they must not be hospitals. It may address, as in the past, the infra-financing of the residences and working conditions of its professionals; the governance model of these centres, with a model of country incorporating local administrations; the model of residences first, smaller or linked to the environment, or its relationship with the health world, for the highest number of persons with grade 3. We bet to continue working on the review of the long-term model of cures, taking into account, among other things, the work already done during the seven and eight legislatures in relation to the creation of the Catalan Agency of Dependence. It may address the issue of long-term cures not only from equipment or residential services..., also ensure proper home care and satisfy the desire of most users, large people or people with disabilities or mental disorders and addictions, to continue living at home and participating in the life of the community. Thus, we believe that it is essential to move forward with the design of a comprehensive, home-based, people-centred social health care proposal that can incorporate and coordinate the role of the various agents involved in this primary and specialized care: the home-based employment sector, the curative services, the personal assistants, the volunteers, the proximity services and also the community participation initiatives. It is necessary to enhance and develop very notably these home care services, with a comprehensive socio-health vision, and even incorporating home automation and monitoring. They need to develop a unique and shared social and health history in the comprehensive social and health care plan and generate a new model of integrated health care, pharmaceutical care, health-care provision, integration of social and health information systems, and professional access to all these systems. To develop, in coordination with social services, a Community programme to support people living alone and at risk of social integration which puts in value the civic equipment of the territory and the specialized volunteer networks with the objective that these people remain attached and have the necessary social and Community support. We think it is absolutely necessary to travel in the services for the rights of some collections, such as those of LGBTI people or those who suffer from disabilities or mental illnesses. To solve the problems of mobility, transport and accessibility of the great people, always having present the territorial differences. It is not the same living in a small village of the High Pyrenees as around metropolitan areas. It is necessary to encourage large people to access training and all kinds of activities that guarantee active aging and contribute to the prevention of cognitive and motor damage. It can also facilitate all possible areas of finding to promote the interchant of experiences between generations and understanding and the valorization of old age. And, finally, we believe that it is necessary to create a council of the great people who advise the Parliament of Catalonia in its functions: the legislative, the impulse and control of political action and the government, and the institutional and representative. And, finally, I hope that these conclusions that have been approved today will prove useful in designing future policies for the collection of the great people; also to give a better response to this second question of the Covid-19 and to those who will come. Our vote will be in favour of most of the conclusions put forward by the parliamentary groups. I would like to end with a quote from Pope Francesc who says: "In a society where great people are not honored, there is no future for young people. And in Catalonia we must continue to work in prayer so that we can honor our great people with the best possible attention and cures. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.206.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote will take place this late, after item 8 of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government about the import of influenza prevention and other winter conditions during the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[300-00317/12]] The 14th item on the agenda is the Government's inquiry into the import of influenza prevention and other winter diseases during the Covid-19 pandemic, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. It has the word, for its exposition, the deputy Ms Gemma Espigares.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.207.0	Thank you, vice president second, as president. He will advise, Members, Members, this question that we are beginning on the field of prevention, that they know that this legislature is one of the themes in which we have put the most emphasis, so we have translated it today in concrete terms in the field of influenza vaccination, in which we are already immersed, but also in the global framework of prevention. We did so in the general policy debate and we did so in the monogram of health, in all areas of the life styles of prevention – other parliamentary groups have done so in this sense – and the specific nature of the social determinants of health within the health system. Therefore, we would frame him in these matters. When the councilwoman started this legislature, she placed many priorities, among them, three of the main ones. The first, the professionals, and going back in the measure that is possible labor rights that the health professionals claim to be able to go better; in this sense, the wage increases, but also the return of the DPOs, and also the armoring that has taken place this legislature to Parliament in this sense. A_second priority element, primary attention, and therefore, it was also very linked to what we say today. And a third, public health and the part of prevention. And, in this sense, in the last approved assumption, in the 2020 assumption, we are talking about an increase of the 15_per_cent in public health, which certainly today already knows it all, because we are unfortunately following this pandemic of the Covid-19, but that two years ago and there was still confusion: when you say "public health there was who understood the public health system, and no, "public health understood as all this part of prevention, all this community part. Therefore, a premise that continues to grow and that surely still the pandemic has made it more obvious that it can continue to influence. We are very clear, and Mrs Caula is often speaking, that prevention is the best thing we have with salvation, and we have also said it many times: it is a brave government, because it is easier to inaugurate everything, to inaugurate a hospital, that everyone understands it, than not inaugurate a vaccine, which, in fact, does not open, right? And I'm saying it with this whole thing because we understand each other more colloquially. Therefore, this bet for healthy lifestyles, which is also physical activity, which is also healthy nutrition, which also has an impact on mental health, and we also talk about last week at the Health Committee, because at the end of the week a person who is also physically active is also much more predisposed, and also avoid depression; they also affect this feeling. Therefore, we have very clear scientific evidence that investing in prevention is a good tool, and we lack much more elements to be able to do so. And now, therefore, despite the fact that the pandemic has put a lot of negative elements in the net, it also offers us this opportunity to be able to influence much more on those sources that will come, which are not yet structural to cover hospital deficiencies, but that there is this real bet for the primary, for prevention and for professionals. And, therefore, placed this part of context and how this prevention can help us to avoid congestion in the health system, and more already immersed in this second one that we have, is where we see the part of wanting to question it with the campaign« Cap fred, which in fact a few days ago began to explain, and which has already begun, vaccination, in this concrete case on the influenza, and how we understand the cows as an element to avoid complications with people, above all, at risk, and we will also ask them in this sense... but also the whole part of reducing hospital pressure, reducing morbidity and mortality. And we know that influenza is a much more frequent, much more contagious disease, but we would focus on five elements. The first, specifically asking who this campaign is addressed to. We know there's a lot of people who followed him and they've been looking for a way to start immunizing themselves. We think it's good that it's increased. And, therefore, ask him how many cows have acquired; if it is the same as the year passed or if an effort has been made in this sense. Ask him also for the concrete collections to which he is addressed, and in concrete terms we will also focus today on the part of socio-health professionals. This year it is especially important that people working on residences, that caregivers who are with large people or with vulnerable people also do this vaccination with themselves, but also with all essential workers, including teachers, that it is perhaps a collection that is not too used to it, but especially those teachers who are taking care of and who are with more primary classes; so we can increase it. And, therefore, to whom do you think you headed, in what percentage or which goals are also marked, and what amounts of vaccination there are. And among the health personnel, let me also hide, because traditionally when you say 'health personnel' people understand midwives and nurses, and I would like to highlight, for example, the Gis, the administrative workers of the CAP, because precisely when they are entering a place that is step by step, that there are currents, that there is a lot of contact with papers, to exchange documentation with users of primary care centres. Therefore, also with the managed workers, with the Gis. He said I was focusing a little on the part of the socio-health staff, and here too, asking him what is the vaccination target that they have scored in each of them. I am talking specifically about health care, because if the WHO places us at 75_per_cent, that 75_per_cent of the health care staff is cows, we are talking about that countries like Belgium, as England are own at 60_per_cent, but in Catalonia, although we have increased much in recent years, we do not reach 30_per_cent. And, therefore, what specific actions the department foresees in this area. And in this I introduced two examples of two elements because it seems to us very important the whole campaign that the Department of Health has to deploy, but also synergies with professional colleges, with associations, complicitys with all scientific societies. And in this case, two of them stand out: the specific campaign of the Lleida College of Nurses for urgent and massive vaccination in the health sector. Therefore, they have chosen this part to increase vaccination among health personnel. And, in fact, they explained to me that, for example, so they started first getting vaccinated between them and then they started all the..., planning to start the whole vaccination campaign with the staff..., with their community. And another, in this case, the Covid Advisory Commission, of the General Council of the Official College of Metges, which also made a pre-emptive campaign asking, for example, in this case, the Government, to anticipate, to advance the campaign and to do it in some way to mitigate the Covid as well. Therefore, this obvious relationship between the flu, the Covid and how the two together can increase morbidity. And finally, two more elements. The first one, let's help crack myths. And here, too, it's a loudspeaker that we can make deputies and deputies, not just recommend the vaccination campaign to everyone, but, besides, we do it because it's a vaccine that's safe. There are two types of cows: we have attenuated cows, which have a small dose of the virus and, therefore, what you do is an immunological response, which is much longer, but because you have a reaction to the virus that you have injected, as is the case with chickenpox, and there are cows, in this case, inactive or dead, in which the virus you have..., the small dose of virus that is inside the vaccine, in this case, is dead; therefore, there is no risk of adverse symptomatology, beyond the pain that you can do the same. And that's important because it certainly knows a little; people sometimes have to say no, it's that if I'm a cow, I might be able to react or maybe this year I will, and that's not it, scientifically it's not. So it's a good thing we can explain it, too. And, finally, the last thing that we would like to highlight..., and in this case, it is the concrete campaign of "Cap Fred", and it is to congratulate her on the innovation of this year, to take the campaign of vaccination of primary care centers, that we are very aware of the situation of saturation that they are suffering, that they are facing attention to residences, to the campaign of school vaccinations, to the rest of the cows of the school calendar, and to the whole fight against the pandemic. And, therefore, take this campaign from the vaccination of the typically sanitary spaces and take it to the pavilion, take it to the civic centers, so, take it to the community, which is this other pot of prevention, the primary and community, that many times we neglect, therefore, seems especially important to us. And then yesterday, I visited some of them to see how it worked, and the circuits are working, giving hours, making concrete teams that make this specific task, and it seems to us that this is also an important element and also demonstrates this government's ability to adapt, with a different situation or with a pandemic situation, to take advantage of this to make an innovation, and that if, moreover, it works, it can be like the structural element in the system. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.208.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, the words of the greeting counselor, the Lady Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.209.0	All right. Thank you, Vice President. This year is an exceptional year in many senses, not only for the difficult moment that we are living in this beginning of the second year, but also because this second year, unlike the first, despite being much more prepared in all senses, and especially from the clinical point of view, from the medical point of view, with much more knowledge than this Covid, meets, will meet with this other epidemic that we have every year in our country, and also at the world level, that is the epidemic of the influenza, but also with all the ills that we say in winter, those that are at the same time the answer to the usual season. Imagine all this added up with a few Covid's onslaught. Therefore, very alert to all this, we worked from now on because this vaccination, this influenza vaccination campaign, which is the preventive tool, one of the preventive tools that we have in view of this influenza epidemic, is being reinforced for this year by buying 230,000 more doses of vaccine, reaching 1 million and a half doses, and anticipating the maximum that this campaign was to be. We have doubled the intake for influenza vaccination by two factors: for one band, as I said, because we bought these 230,000 more doses, and, for the other, because we bought that vaccine, or many more units of that vaccine, more recommended this year for the world health authorities, which is a tetravalent vaccine, with two A and two B shocks, and, therefore, also much more expensive, in this sense. We have gone from about twenty thousand doses, which we bought every year, from this tetravalent, to about 800,000 doses of this vaccine. Therefore, here you see quite clearly a difference, but also a bet to do everything possible to manage these winter months of these epidemics that will coexist in our country. The grip is an important problem of public salvation, it has always been, and it is the one that deals with us with many energies to any system of salvation. For this reason, these vaccination campaigns, but without forgetting other prevention tools that this year we have more reinforced for society because of the Covid, which is this distance, this hand hygiene and this use of the mask, which are prevention tools that will also be useful for us in this influenza epidemic. They've been studying what they're doing, so, in the southern hemisphere, what the flu epidemic was like and what they're showing, right? , a few different data, with not so many contagions, but that they are not yet inconclusive and we cannot say that this will be so in our country, given that the context in different places in the southern hemisphere, with the comparison that we have made in all countries that they are empty and have insisted on the vaccination of influenza..., was also a context, in many cases, of practically general confinement, and, therefore, this means also less contagious in the grip. Therefore, without giving it per fact we can say that not only vaccination is prevention, but also that this other important prevention in the Covid also needs to help us with the flu. The incidence of influenza during episodes oscillates between 5 and 20_per_cent, but it is 50_per_cent or more in people who see institutionalizations. And in this case we could talk, therefore, about the residences of great people, which have been discussed here before. In addition, flu mortality occurs primarily in older people, and they are also vulnerable people with respect to Covid. Last year..., we estimate that with vaccination a 30-37_per_cent of deaths, 40_per_cent of ICU admissions and 26_per_cent of hospitalizations attributable to influenza in seniors of sixty-four years old are avoided. You can imagine the importance that this has at these times, at these times where the health system will already be very tense respecting the epidemic of the Covid. All that avoidable, also these tickets, also these UCI tickets, and obviously avoidable mortality, we need to be able to avoid it. I mean, this people got along pretty well. And then I'll talk about this campaign start that I think has been and is going very well. But the flu vaccine reduces these hospitalizations and mortality, and this year is more necessary than ever, because it's lower this care pressure. And leave a clear message as well: there is no greater risk of infection with coronavirus or a hard Covid to have been vaccinated against influenza. I think this has to be made clear, and people need to know that health authorities are giving this message as we do, not only from the World Health Organization, but also from us. But we are before that the symptoms of the flu and the symptoms of the Covid, so it is very shared, and the truth is that they are very similar, and, therefore, we will have to do everything necessary to be able to discriminate, and vaccination is an essential tool. You talked, Congresswoman, didn't you? Of whom are the people with the highest risk. So these people over sixty years old, and over, patients with chronic health problems and risk factors, where we added this year hypertension, because it's also a risk factor for Covid, pregnant women and postpartum women up to six months old, infants between themselves and twelve years old with prematurity prior to under thirty-two weeks old, people with immunosuppression and those people who can transmit the flu to people at high risk. Here we include health professionals, socio-sanitary workers, residents, caregivers of high-risk people, not only residents, but also home care workers and all service workers. You said some professionals, you said Gis. I would also talk, for example, about janitors, who are moving, wouldn't I? , from one place to the other of the health centers and that, therefore, it is also very important that they are vaccinated. And here, the specific campaigns of the Government of the Government of Catalonia respect the health professionals, of the Department of Health, but accompanied, therefore, precisely of this, of the professional colleges, which help us a lot this year. 2012 we were able to move from a 16_percent vaccination we had then to a 30_percent vaccination in healthcare professionals, and we want to increase it to 75_per_percent. We know that it's very difficult, that it's an object that's very far from what we've achieved, but we think we can do it this year. As in people over sixty years old, reach also 75_per_cent; and to people with chronic diseases, in this 60_per_cent recommended by WHO. And I want to make a special mention of all the work that has been done many weeks ago by the Health Department together with the assemblies of our country. We have the primary attention, therefore, that 80 per cent of Covid's case is coming and that he cannot stop doing all the other pathologies he has, and that, moreover, he has to do it with separate circuits, generating the maximum of security in this attendance. Then, in this primary attention, in addition, to launch an influenza vaccination campaign, sometimes there are real problems, that are real, that are palpable and that are thick. We've put ourselves..., coordinating, working with the assemblies of our country to find complementary spaces to make the influenza vaccination campaigns, and that's working very well, and that means an involvement of the municipalities and that also means this way of working in the epidemic but also in the flu, in everything that we need, therefore, in these months. These devices are more than six hundred, 635 to all of Catalonia: civic centres, libraries, pavilions, like you said, temporary SEM installations; they are six hundred installations that have these vaccination campaigns available. And a key message: we talked about priority people in this influenza campaign, the most vulnerable people respect the flu and who share it with the Covid. First, these people have also been proactively addressed, because we want to ensure that vulnerable people – more than sixty years old, pregnant women, people with chronic disease, health professionals – access, therefore, when before this vaccination is better. But the campaign will last two months. There is no rush for the rest of the citizenry that wants to vaccinate, that it has understood that this year it is important to be able to solidify and to do, to bring its grain of smile to, therefore, to be able to avoid these attentions per grip dont that the system is already quite tense respect the Covid. So, there's gonna be time, I don't think we're all going for the first week, but it also shows us, doesn't it? , this flood of people, therefore, the will of the Catalan society to be able to respond [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] to an important cry like this – I'm done, president –; with this..., there's no hurry. The first days of vaccination have already been vaccinated more than 165,000 people, and that's a lot. And so is this campaign, no matter how cold it's on its way. Not because we want to keep our heads cold all the time, but this year it's necessary to think, isn't it? If we do better with that attitude that we would like to make, that hug, that lie down. This year is important, so this prevention, and vaccination campaigns are an essential tool for the country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.210.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the approach to rape in educational centres]] [[300-00311/12]] The eighth item on the agenda is the question to the Government about the approach of rapes in educational centres, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. For the presentation of the inquiry, Ms Jenn Díaz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.211.0	Thank you. Good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, a few months ago I came here to denounce the silence and denial of male violence, and I did my own. "Tell me, announcing that I had suffered male violence. But he was a tool that no longer belongs only to the first women who used him to become stronger, because now he is taking on new forms and escapade from the world. And the last is here in Catalonia; the last one is for young women from Castellar del Vallès and Sabadell. They "help me to send two messages. The first is for the aggressors: "You have run out of impunity, gentlemen; this world that protected you, which supported you, has run out. And the second message, which is still, I would say, more important for all women who are possible victims and assaulted women, is that: "Companies, what happens to you is not private, what they have done to you is not bad luck; it's structural, it's collectible and it's everyone's. And, therefore, these two messages are very important for both the attackers and the cover-ups as well as for all the women who want to raise their eyes. And today I wanted to take this "I am into the Chamber, and as I did a few months ago I will read it, because I think the witness is stronger when he is in the first person. And, therefore, as they do not have the opportunity to come here to the hemisphere to defend their own, I will read some of the messages that they have been sharing with the Instagram, because the new forms of communication of our young man, therefore, transferred this "I am to those spaces that make them feel safer. I read: "Get the furniture out of the buttocks of your ass, so I'll make it better and you'll take it more. "If you wear these tops, I can't concentrate. "When do you pick up the hour? "Let's see if the heads grow up already, shall we? « By resistance, you don't approve, but keep running and getting your boobs kicked. « I've come here, and I'll kick your ass. « He told me that if I had a peto I would push the note. "Remember to come by later, I'll teach you a little something. "I still have marks on the back of your nails yesterday night. "I don't understand how you have this body without doing anything about sports. And to finish: "He made me a peto when we were alone in class. He was seven years old. Some of these situations were given five, six, seven, eight years ago, but in reality it doesn't matter when they passed, because most of the aggressors who then counted with consent, with the complicity and shame of society and its companies, thought that this world that said it was always going to end would be so, that they wouldn't change things and that, therefore, this silence pact would continue forever more. But things have changed and the example of the girls of Castellar or Sabadell and so many other places changes the history and also changes the perceptions of society. For a long time, for a long time, all this was nothing more than a joke. They were jokes that were made in the classroom, that maybe they were out of place, but with only jokes, they were tolerable. And that's what's changed, that women no longer accept rapes, that now what we do is detect them and report them and that we organize ourselves and that's what the young girls of Castellar, Sabadell and so many other places that may not have reached us have done. But the fight against the attacks on the centers must not depend on the courage of young women, because then we leave them without help. We can't trust all the courage of all of them, because with fourteen, with fifteen, with seven, we don't have the same tools or the same knowledge, but, more importantly, it's the same age, because it's from the beginning of power, and that generates a defencelessness. It doesn't matter what age they are, but it's especially hard when they're young women, because it's obvious that they're starting from the inequality that the abuse of power generates from the age difference and, of course, from the space of power from which the abusers are making this abuse. We can't face our aggressors who, more than that, like, enjoy impunity, superiority and do it from a place of power and privilege, so let's not forget that they are their teachers and, therefore, they are their referents and, therefore, they do it from a place of privilege, superiority and that can't escape the management of these attacks. We can't allow the center to detect cases like these and I don't say like this anymore, but all those that still cost more to identify, because maybe they're not as specific or not as obvious as this and depending on the students, their courage and their ability to organize is resolved or not. Because if we do this, if we put all the focus on what they're doing, we'll be condemning them. Somehow, Castellar's case is a case of success because they've organized themselves, they've denounced, there's been consequences, and I think that we could consider it a case of success in the self-organisation of women. And the fact that the women in the center raised their eyes to encourage other young people from other centers, and by the way, to send this message to the attackers, I find it positive, but that's not what we want. This is not what we need at the educational centres, we don't need them to always be the ones to raise their eyes in order to protect them. We are very pleased that women are empowered and organized; we are very pleased that they denounce, that they weave alliances and that they are organized, but we also want to protect those who are silent and who are unable to detect attacks and abuses and who do not explain it to anyone. We also want to protect them. Therefore, tools and resolutions cannot depend solely on the attitude of young women in the case of educational centres. Because if the resolutions of the cases depend on this bravery of the assaults, we'll be putting the focus where it doesn't touch. The focus must never be on how the assaults are to be done and on these days that we are posing against the law against masculinist rapes, we are very clear. Focus can't always be on what women do when they attack us. You have to work with the kids, with the kids, with the teenagers, with the men, because if you don't, it won't do you any good. And the ways we have to deal with rapes have specific casuistics that sometimes don't let us act. And that must be borne in mind that sometimes we block ourselves, we keep quiet, we kill it and we have already demonstrated it and we voted for it in the monogram of equality here in Parliament, that silence, omission, inaction are not consent, they are not an approval or an open door; it is not an acceptance of the situation and, therefore, those who are silent, those who are quiet, who are silent and who are silent, they are also our responsibility. So far it has been read, so that silence, omission and inaction were consent, but it is over, and we have not had enough, and we are glad, as I say, that someone sees it, but we do not want to be forced to be brave, because your case is solved. The situation of control and power that the aggressors have is unquestionable and, in most cases, between and outside the classroom, the violence that the aggressors are to serve is minimal, because they are usually in areas of confidence. They are people of their own circle and, therefore, the violence they must commit against their assaults does not mean that it is either physical or excessive. They only have the confidence of the attacker. This is why it is important that the same centres have a functioning that is useful, a plan, a protocol, a guide, the itineraries that are clear, that are safe, because the young ones have these tools and have a way to deal with the situation that is not frontally, deal physically and noticeably with their attacker. And the approach cannot be only afterward, when we already have the case on the table. Because if we assume that masculinism – and we assume it – and patriarchy are structural and permeate society as a whole, and therefore they are also among the educational centers, we must guarantee them. We will not finish the day off with patriarchy, we already know that, but as a matter of fact, if we give these tools to detect, to act and also to prevent, as a matter of fact we are making all of them empower themselves in the centers and all of them can, with the information that the educational centers have at their disposal, empower themselves and do not need to spend years of consent, ommerty, of this silence pact because they solve their cases. And so, in this sense, as we are aware that we need to relate to desire, to consent, and to do so with respect and healing, we consider that there are two lives to resolve this issue, to have more secure educational centers for everyone: one is sexual and emotional education in the centers and the other is protocols. And, therefore, in this sense, counsel, we asked him, therefore, who has followed the performance of the department in these concrete cases, but, beyond these concrete cases, as we do to hold on to the freedom of male violence and who are the projects of sexual education that are about to be engulfed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.212.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer the word has the counselor, Mr. Josep Bargalló, Counsellor of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.213.0	Thank you, Vice President. MPs, MPs... MPs, sexual abuse is also an abuse of power, an abuse that is especially hard, serious, when it is given to the school and exercised on the part of someone who should be a referent in every sense for children, and who precisely takes advantage of their position of power to abuse and cause terror. Educational centres produce situations of violence as they do to society, because the centres are the reflection of society, because the school is not alien around it. Our job, however, is to prevent; our job is to act; our job is to suppress, when it comes down; our job is to accompany. Mass often these situations of violence have been hidden, stored, with a minimum of silence pacts around sexual abuse, which are often approached from an adult-centric perspective, from the gaze of adults, with "there is no such thing, and often also with an androcentric look, with a clearly masculistic biach. They're cowardly silences, they're complicit silences, silences we have to break, and they can't find any complicity either in the administration or in the education professionals. It's silence for young people to break and against whom they raise their eyes. And it's our duty and our commitment to be at his side. These last days have appeared on Instagram – as the deputy said – a first case, denounced, and after a series of cases that immediately followed the first complaint, a reference to a centre in Castellar, two references to two centres in Sabadell, a reference to a centre in Moià. We have to make arrangements before these cases; zero tolerance and maximum transparency. The comments made by the honourable Member – and there are more – are repugnant and unacceptable – and some are still more than the ones she has read – without pal·liatius, without excuse. They're comments, they're acts, they're actions that we have to eradicate, and especially at school, where respect relationships have to be the basis, where young people's personality and young people are formed, where violence can't be exercised and where it can't be explained that violence can't be carried out without impunity. If these days we say that a good way to explain to society the behavior, in habits, before the pandemic is the school, because students pass it on to families and society, we can't exemplify that acting with an abuse of power is unpunished. In the past few months, we have been talking about safe schools, referring to the health aspects of the pandemic. But we don't talk about safe schools only in terms of health aspects, also to which the Member commented: the school has to be safe for the girl and for the girl in all cases – we have said it and we insist – and not just for health aspects, the school has to be as safe as home, because it is the second home of our students, of our students. And, what we're talking to right now, even if, unfortunately, your house is not safe, the school must be your safe house, in any case. We are talking about actions – which I will explain to you in this intervention or later – which we have already planned and some of which we have already presented to the same Parliament last week, to the intergroup. But I don't want to – before I go into this aspect that the Member asked me to do – forget some facts that are telling and that explain to us that what we're talking about today, what came out on Instagram two weeks ago last week, is just the tip of the iceberg. According to data from the Mosso d'Esquadra, one or two victims of assault and sexual abuse in Catalonia is a child or a child, is a minor, and therefore they are our students – they are our students. I don't mean, because it's not like that, that these attacks are in the school field, but they're our students. The year 2016 was reported to Catalonia 713 abuse and 254 sexual assaults to minors. According to Save the Children's data, with whom we work very closely in this camp, between 10 and 20 per cent of the population has been sexually abused during childhood; sis_de_de_de_de_de_de are known to the child in some degree of relationship. This, therefore, is a reality that places us, I insist, in zero tolerance. And I wonder what we've done before these past Instagram appearances of this campaign promoted by brave girls who've come out and explained it. We talked to the victims, with all the victims we could identify, in some cases there was anonymity, but we talked to all of them. And we talked to all of them because they explained it to us with more detention, to accompany them. We've been talking to all the addresses of the centers. We've worked with the Vicki Bernadet Foundation in all cases because you're in the center and you're already in the center. And we have also opened, from the Inspection, the relevant procedures. In the case of Castellar, the inspection has ruled that the complaints were indeed. From the work done by the Inspectorate, a disciplinary dispatcher has been introduced for lack of hard or very hard, because the dispatcher will already close, to the teacher; he has been cautiously removed from the teaching and contact with students while the process lasts and a substitute teacher has been appointed so that the student has guaranteed his right to learning. In the case of Sabadell, in one of the cases he was a retired professor, but in any case, he also set out to work the Inspectorate. He also proposed to work in contact with the student and the student so as to identify possible, let's say, consequences. In the second case of Sabadell, the complaint was anonymous. Anonymity double: neither identified the hypothetical attacker nor identified the victim. So, let's make a call, which we've already made, we have the internal channels of the department enough, let's just say, discreet because these people can identify and we can work it out. And in the case of Moià – in the case of Moià – there has also been action: the teacher has also moved away from the teaching and together with the institute and with the assembly a listening space has been opened at the youth centre La Pólvora del municipi, which for a few hours a day has made an advisory and listening space with specialists with the young complainants, both in the first term as they have been later. These are actions that, moreover, have, if they send it that way, other repercussions, because we take them to the prosecutor's office if the appeal of the sender proves that this is the way to go. These are actions that we have done, that we will do, because, I insist, zero tolerance, sure choices, because there must be no silence – in all cases or in most cases, there were silences – because what they do is wrong. What should do us worse is that in all cases or in most cases it is: "I already said, "someone had already said it, "someone had said it, but we didn't listen to it. Because that's... that's where the Administration is guilty. And I say the Administration in the broadest sense, not having listened to this androcentric tradition and this tradition... because there's one case I'm telling you that it's 20 years ago, for this tradition, but we can't afford that. We couldn't have allowed it 20 years ago; we won't have it now. And actions. As you know, we are working in the school board of violins, that it is a board that has programs, that already... ; we have opened the integrated unit of care for children and adolescents in the Educational Complex of Tarragona, a barnahus that already works for a few months ago and that has already reached sixty-five victims since its opening in the month of April; we are also working in a training board and, as you know, we have already cleared the board of affective and sexual education for all educational centers, and I can also detail it in some of your examples. But, I insist, safe schools, zero tolerance, struggle so that power is not misused, along with immediate, rigorous victims and actions. And also, if you want, I'll tell you some law that we might have to change because that's what we can do even more forcefully. Many thanks, vice president, deputies and deputies – forgive me, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.214.0	No problem, counselor. To make the line up, you've got the deputy back again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.215.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you have finished your intervention talking about immediate actions, changing some laws, advancing to the deputies and deputies who will come out of here a motion to be able to talk about it openly. And, in addition, I would add that in each case and with each complaint we have an opportunity and we have the opportunity to do well, and therefore I think taking advantage of each of these complaints to start generating precedents for good practices is very important. I was talking about accompanying the victims, talking to them, actively listening to all of them, and I think we're lucky – we're lucky – because the department has acted with rigour, with strength, acted with speed, and so, just as teachers are the references to the classroom, we're the references to society, and so every time we don't act or tank one of the cases properly, somehow, we're generating this bad practice and this new vision of society. Just as teachers must be referents, so do we, we must be exemplary, we must accompany, and the institutions have a very important role to play. And I want to recall an intervention that was made by the actress Meryl Streep when he was talking about Donald Trump, who said that everything that we do to institutions, everything that we say, everything that we do from our legitimate altarpieces, is from the legislative chambers or from the media, everything that we give people authority to do and act. And so, when we do not act quickly, rigorously and exemplaryly, we are, in some way, authorizing the aggressors to strengthen this culture of rape, we are validating the complicity of the cover-ups, and we are growing and unprotecting the victims. And, therefore, we are sending a message to the homes of all the citizens of our country, in some way..., to act on the basis of values that we show from the institutions. And in this case, unfortunately, that we have the institutions of masculinism and institutional fascism in Vox, I think it is very important that from here, from Catalonia, we do these actions to do all the opposite: validate and strengthen the victims, the assaulted women to tell them that we believe them, that we protect them and that we will do everything possible to give them the tools. And, for example, this morning – it may seem that there is nothing to see, but it does have much to see with this use that they make from the institutions – a senator from the PP asks a question to Minister Montero that I find intolerable, and I think that we, from our administrations, must speak with rigour, and we must not validate certain comments and certainly ways of proceeding, because we are also a referent, like the teachers in the classroom, and, therefore, we, in the same way that we seek to protect the centres, ourselves, from the institutions, we must be impeccable, and that there are causes and consequences. And from here I think it is very important that we also follow example, and that in cases such as Castellar, Sabadell and Moià, every time the Administration makes a good practice, the future of this country is changing. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.216.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, again, the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.217.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, it's true, we don't have to shake our wrists, we don't have to have doubts, we don't have to allow any attitude or action in the school area. And it's true that the school environment is very big, and it's true that there's a historical practice that can be the fear of the girl who feels assaulted to expose her case. We've proven it with these later facts. There's already some mechanisms in the department. A phone, for example. But it doesn't use, the phone, on the part of the girls, uses the Instagram. And so, what we have to do, and this is not an obvious case, is not to expect us to use the phone, it's to go to Instagram to open, and we're about to do it: open our space to collect complaints. And as I said more than once, these changes in the law... what happens to us sometimes, now? So it turns out that the convictions were not accompanied by the loss of the condition of teacher or teacher, they are not. And so, when the sentence is over, the teacher has the right to go back to school. What do we do? We're doing the administration's job of, so let's not go back to contacting the students, but it's not the solution. The solution is a legal reform that allows us to act. And I insist – and I insist – that the plan against rapes at school is an example of this attitude of conviction that we have. When we came in, he was talking about living together, which is right, school is a core of living together. That's right. But it's not the same living together as fighting rape. It's two different things to do at a time, but they can't be confused either. The work for coexistence requires some measures, and the fight against violence, some others. It gave the prevention, in the formation, that we are already doing, and to which we are accompanied by the Vicki Bernadet Foundation, the work of affective and sexual education, to which we are accompanied by the Association of Sexual and Reproductive Rights, Drac Magic and the GroupIREF, because, moreover, we are very clear that we are not the maximum experts, and we do not have to be, but that the maximum experts are with whom we must go from hand to hand to act. This plan to eradicate rapes in schools, for us, is very important, because, moreover, education, training is in knowledge, it is in skills, but it is also in attitudes – it is also in attitudes. And attitudes are as important as skills and knowledge. And the attitudes of seniors – faculty or any other type of staff in the educational sphere – must be attitudes, in this sense, uncomfortable, must be. And we don't have to lock ourselves in, because there's something else that we've been insisting on a long time ago: if something happens in a school and it falls apart, it goes against the school. If something happens in a school, it's work and it's advertised, like Moià, it's in favor of school, because it gives the image that the school works to be safe, and more so because today nothing can be stored – nothing can be stored – and, therefore, trying to love rapes is not just a cowardly attitude, it's a stupid attitude. And, therefore, from the department we will work hard, and we are doing so with the assemblies and with the whole educational community, to eradicate the rapes of the school and make it the safe home of our students and especially of our students. Thank you very much, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-10-21-6401.218.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. After the debate this late, we will now proceed to the vote. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote. [[Decree Law 32/2020, of 22 September, amending Law 17/2014, of 23 December, of representativeness of agricultural professional organizations (continuation)]] [[203-00057/12]] We begin by voting on the third point, which is the debate on the validation of Decree Law 32/2020 of 22 September, for which is amended Law 17/2014 of 23 December, of representativeness of the professional organizations agricultural. The vote begins. Decree 32/2020_was validated by 76 votes in favour–correspondents to 55 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics–, 57 against, no abstentions. Now it's my turn to ask the chamber if any group... [[Pause.]] So let's vote whether or not it's processed by bill of law this decree. The vote begins. This decree will be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 65 votes in favour, 64 against – correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics – 4 abstentions. [[Decree-Law No 33/2020 of 30 September on urgent measures in the field of taxation on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles and tax on stays in tourist establishments, and in the budgetary and administrative field (continuation)]] [[203-00058/12]] We now vote on Point 4, which is the debate on the validation of Decree No. 33/2020, of 30 September, of urgent measures in the field of taxation on carbon dioxide emissions from mechanical traction vehicles and from taxation on stays in tourist establishments, and in the sphere of taxation and administration. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 64 votes in favour – correspondents to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics –, 29 against, 40 abstentions. Any group want you to vote for processing as a bill? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, this decree is definitively validated. [[Report and conclusions of the Commission for the Study of Policies for the Millennium of the Quality of Life of the Great Gent (continuation)]] [[260-00002/12]] Let us now move to the fifth point of the order of the day, which is the debate of the Report and conclusions of the Commission of Study of Policies for the Millennium of the Quality of Life of the Great Gent. We shall begin by voting on the approved conclusions proposed by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We shall vote, first of all, on the introductory part of conclusion No 2. The vote begins. This conclusion was approved by 97 votes in favour, 32 against – 11 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics correspondents – with 4 abstentions. We're voting now conclusion number two, letter to. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 68. We now vote on conclusion number 2, letter c. The vote begins. It was approved by 101 votes to 80 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics correspondents, against 32 abstentions. Vote now concludes number 3, letter and. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour, against 40 abstentions – correspondents to 19 delegated and face-to-face votes and 21 telematics votes. We're voting now conclusion number 4, letter to. The vote begins. It was adopted by 61 votes to 40, with 32 abstentions. We're voting now conclusion number 6, letter b. The vote begins. It was approved by 57 votes to 8, with 68 abstentions – 47 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics correspondents. We now vote for conclusion number 6, letter c. The vote begins. It was approved by 57 votes to 8, with 68 abstentions – corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics. We now vote on the introductory part of conclusion number 7. The vote begins. It was adopted by 101 votes to 32, with no abstentions. We now vote for conclusion number 7, letter b. The vote begins. It was approved by 101 votes to 80 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics correspondents, against 32 abstentions. We now vote on the introductory part of conclusion number 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes in favour, 32 against – 11 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics correspondents – with 4 abstentions. We now vote on conclusion number 9, letters to p. From a to a p. The vote begins. They were approved by 97 votes in favour, against, 36 abstentions – corresponding to 15 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics. We shall continue to vote on the remaining conclusions adopted on the proposal of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, all of which have not been voted on so far. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Let us now vote on the conclusions adopted on the proposal of the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group to move forward. We're voting closing number two, letter c. The vote begins. It has been approved by 101 votes in favour – corresponding to 80 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics – against 32 abstentions. We're voting now conclusion number four, letter e. The vote begins. It was adopted by 101 votes to 32. We now vote on conclusion number 5, letter c. The vote begins. It has been approved by 69 votes in favour, against, 64 abstentions – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics. We shall continue to vote on the remaining conclusions adopted at the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on the conclusions adopted by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Let's start with letter b. The vote begins. It was approved by 89 votes to 68 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics correspondents, 8 against, 36 abstentions. We're voting now on letter c. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 12, with 53 abstentions. We're voting now for the letter d. The vote begins. It was approved by 89 votes to 68 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics correspondents, 8 against, 36 abstentions. We're voting for the letter now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 85 votes to 8, with 40 abstentions. We now vote on the remaining conclusions presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The vote begins. They were approved by 125 votes to 8, with no abstentions. We now vote on the conclusions adopted on the proposal of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. Let's start with letter b, conclusion number one. Conclusion number 1, letter b. The vote begins. It has been approved by 97 votes in favour – correspondents to 76 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics – against, 36 abstentions. We now vote for conclusion number 3, letter b. The vote begins. It was adopted by 97 votes in favour, with 36 abstentions. We now vote for conclusion number 4, letter c. The vote begins. It has been approved by 97 votes in favour – corresponding to 76 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics – against 36 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of conclusion number four. The vote begins. It has been approved by 101 votes in favour, against, 32 abstentions – corresponding to 11 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics. We are now voting for the conclusion of number 5. The vote begins. It was approved by 129 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting now conclusion number 6, letter to. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes in favour, with 36 abstentions. We're voting number six now, letter b. The vote begins. It has been approved by 43 votes to 90 – corresponding to 69 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics. We now vote for conclusion number 6, letter c. The vote begins. It was adopted by 97 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We now vote for conclusion number 6, letter d. The vote begins. It has been approved by 80 votes in favour – corresponding to 59 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics – against 53 abstentions. We're voting now conclusion number six, letter e. The vote begins. It has been approved by 69 votes to 64 – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics. We're voting now conclusion number 7, letter to. The vote begins. It was adopted by 12 votes to four, with 116 abstentions. We now vote for conclusion number 7, letter b. The vote begins. It was approved by 12 votes in favour, 4 against and 117 abstentions – corresponding to 96 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics. We now vote on the remainder of conclusion 7, which corresponds to the introductory part of the same conclusion. The vote begins. It was approved by 97 votes in favour – corresponding to 76 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics –, 4 against, 32 abstentions. We now vote on the proposal..., I forgive, the introductory part of conclusion number 8 – the introductory part of conclusion number 8. The vote begins. It was approved by 61 votes to 4, with 68 abstentions – corresponding to 47 face-to-face and delegates, 21 telematics. We're voting now conclusion number 8, letter to. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 4, with 64 abstentions. We now vote for conclusion number 8, letter b. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour – corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics –, 4 against, 36 abstentions. And now we're voting on conclusion number 12. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour, corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics; against 40 abstentions. We are now voting on the remaining conclusions adopted at the proposal of the Parliamentary Subgroup, the Constituent CUP. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously, that is to say, 133 votes in favour, no against, no abstention. We are voting now on the conclusions proposed for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos. Let's start by voting number two. The vote begins. It has been approved by 97 votes in favour, corresponding to 76 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics, against 36 abstentions. We are now voting for conclusion number two, letter i. The vote begins. It was adopted by 97 votes to 36. We now vote on the introductory part of conclusion number 3. The vote begins. It was adopted by 93 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. And now we're voting conclusion number three, letter b. The vote begins. It has been approved by 80 votes in favour, corresponding to 59 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics, 17 against, 36 abstentions. And now we're voting conclusion number three, letter c. The vote begins. It was adopted by 80 votes to 53. We're voting now conclusion number three, letter e. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour, corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics, 4 against, 36 abstentions. And now we vote on number 3, letter f. The vote begins. It was adopted by 93 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. And now we're voting conclusion number three, letter h. The vote begins. It has been approved by 65 votes in favour, corresponding to 44 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics, against 68 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of conclusion number 3. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. And we are voting now on conclusion number 4, letter g. The vote begins. It has been approved by 101 votes in favour, corresponding to 80 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics, against 32 abstentions. We are now voting for the conclusion of number 5. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 68 against, corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics, 36 abstentions. We now vote on the introductory part of conclusion number 7. The vote begins. It has been approved by 65 votes in favour, against, 68 abstentions, corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics. And we're voting now conclusion number 7, letter to. The vote begins. It was adopted by 93 votes to 40. We will now vote for conclusion number 7, letter b. The vote begins. It was adopted by 96 votes to 36, with no abstentions. And we are voting now conclusion number 7, letter f. The vote begins. It has been approved by 97 votes in favour, corresponding to 76 delegates and face-to-face and 21 in telematics, 36 against, no abstention. And we now vote on conclusion number 8, letter b. The vote begins. It was approved by 65 votes in favour, against and 68 abstentions, corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics. And now we vote on conclusion number 8, letter g. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 64. And we're voting now at 10, e-letter. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously, 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We are now voting on the remaining conclusions adopted by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Possão all that has not been voted on until now separately. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously, 133 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. We are now voting on the conclusions adopted on a proposal from the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's vote, first place, number three. The vote begins. It has been approved by 85 votes in favour – corresponding to 64 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics – 48 against, no abstention. We're voting number six now, e-letter. The vote begins. It has been approved by 89 votes in favour – corresponding to 68 delegates and face-to-face, 21 telematics –, 44 against and no abstention. We are voting now on the rest of the conclusions that have not been voted until now. The vote begins. They were approved by 121 votes to 8, with 4 abstentions. I now vote on the conclusions adopted at the proposal of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's start number four. The vote begins. It has been approved by 93 votes in favour – corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics – 8 against, 32 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 104 votes to 8, with 21 abstentions. We are voting now on the rest of the conclusions that we have not yet voted for by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. They were approved by 121 votes to 8, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points in the report, which have not been voted on, which are those that correspond to points 1 to 6. The vote begins. They were approved by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. There are no more opportunities to vote, so let's suspend the session until tomorrow at two-quarters in the morning. Thank you.
