ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.1.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, in this first round, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.2.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, we must start the intervention once more, also, like the companies, with the record of all the people who have suffered this crisis, are already ill or dead people, so, with the cheering of families and friends, and also, obviously, so, to all the people who have taken care of the society's joint during these long months that we have suffered and that it seems that we will still continue to skate, with probably less intensity, right? Dotze_mil_five-cents_noranta-si people dead, want 75_per_cent people, all of them, older than sixty-five years, and, it is said now, 4,099 people dead in residences. About a population, in residences, of 66,000 large people, 4,099 died in these three_months. It's a balance that, as society has developed, we can't afford to get out of the way. And, obviously, our obligation as representatives of the city council is to debate what has happened and to discuss how to try to correct this situation in the face of the future. And we have different ways, and some are already out of the way, for example, the committee of inquiry to which, therefore, we will also participate, and I believe that with a format, certainly more paused, but much more intense, we will have the opportunity to deepen into what has happened, to deepen into the responsibilities that may have become, to deepen also in the solutions; but also the specific debate in the plenary is a tool to deal with a debate on what has actually happened and how we can try to correct this situation. We have obviously liked to listen to representatives of large people's entities, representatives of resident family entities, the names of entities that in the last twenty-four hours have asked to be able to intervene in this plenary. It is not possible; it is not possible for all entities to intervene in a session of these characteristics. And, therefore, we also appreciate the derivation of all these interventions, as well as the greater convenience and expansion of the information that they can provide to the Board of Inquiry. And, therefore, this debate, this one that we have here today between parliamentary groups and government, must be a debate that has its continuity in the committee of inquiry. We need to take measures, we need to take measures to prevent the recurrence of a situation like that experienced during these three months in residences and with large people. And, in this sense, there are two elements that concern us and that we want to address in this debate. One is in the short term. In the short term, measures should be taken, measures should already be taken, we know that some of the measures are already being taken, in order to avoid that, in the event that there are outbreaks of this virus, they can affect in the same way that they have done it or with the intensity that the residences have done it. Health care, hospital care, protection measures for professionals, who are some of the victims of this virus; also the resident professionals, in a very important number, have been victims of this situation. Therefore, measures to protect professionals and residents and protocols or contingency plans, as you may say, to address situations of new crisis, but above all with humanity – above all with humanity. I repeat: we cannot afford the disaster that has been experienced in the last few months. And, by the way, rethinking the model of residences. It's not a title problem; it's a model problem. We have configured, we have configured in its moment, the residences as an extension of residential homes, not as hospitals, but there have been spaces outside the health system. And that's what caused, in part, the situation that lived in the residences. Therefore, we address this debate and we will also address the Committee of Inquiry with critical expertise, but above all with intent and construction, so that our great ones have the future that they deserve and not the one that we have experienced and experienced during these months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.3.0	Thank you, Congressman. After this first turn, let's move on to interventions by the government. And, in the first place, the President of the Generalitat has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.4.0	Good afternoon. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, once more, I want to thank you for the opportunity you give the Government to explain everything that has been done, this time in an environment like that of residences. The great people, our opinions, our godparents, have suffered with special virulence from this pandemic. It has been shown that this virus does not affect everyone in the same way. And one of the factors that affect the disease has been the biological and age component. And once again, and as I have always done in my interventions, and as the rest of the parliamentary groups have done, I would like to express my heartfelt condolences to all the families who have lost loved ones during this health crisis. Serving his memory is the best honor we can do. More than 64,000 large people live in public and private residential places in 1,053 Rau centres in the country. They are equipments where a very vulnerable collection is concentrated for its advanced age– the middle age of residents is eighty-four years– ; the majority, dependent and large dependent, and where 90_per_cent present premeditated diseases, and where, unfortunately, each year pass around eleven_ thousand people. Before we continue this intervention, I want to make an explicit re-examination of the entire sector working in the management of residential services and in the care of large people, people with disabilities, people with mental disorders. To all professionals in the residential sector, who, with courage and courage, have taken care of and cared for every day the most vulnerable people before the disease and who are, too, to be in the first line, the target of this pandemic. To all of them, to whom they direct these servants, carers, geriatrics, clean staff, to all and every one of them, my deepest recognition and my most sincere thanks. You know that. All those people who care, care for us, care for people, deserve my first admiration. And all those who risk their salvation to protect the others, I don't even know how to qualify. Thank you all very much. To begin with, I would like to make two reflections. The first is that this virus has badly affected all the residential care systems in all of Europe and, I say, all over the world. And it is also affecting, even more so than here, the rest of the Spanish State, where, unlike Catalonia, it is still to determine who the sad news of the residences has been. I said that last week: the Spanish State has falsely closed the data on the crossings on the topic not only of residences, but also of dead people in their homes, even of hospitals. Andalusia, Madrid, València, les Illes, Castella and Lleó, and therefore also where there are governments formed for some of the formations that here in Catalonia today will surely criticize the management of the Government, they have suffered the same and disarrayed effects, and allow me to add that, in most cases, worse than in the case of Catalonia. The second thought. Even though they don't like me to hate it, another time the infra-financing of the Spanish State, in general, and also in the area of dependence, has been, as always, a conditioning of these results. Years and years of repeatedly violating the Law of Dependency, not assuming the economic responsibility to which the Law of Dependency obliges them also has consequences; years and years of bringing in the Generality such an unjust double effort. As I said, in the specific debate on last week's Covid-19, for what it does to residents, since the zero minute was held weekly meetings with the sector. I myself, almost every week, met with them so that I could follow up on the health crisis that the residents are suffering, as did Councillor El Homrani and Councillor Vergés. On March 6th we had the first death in Catalonia, and since the government we have already made a recommendation not to visit the residences and that people with symptoms are protected and stay home. We regulated the number of visits, asked that a register be made, and extended the hygiene and information measures. Then, obviously, we ended up restricting and forbidding, but already, that I was clear, we acted from the first moment. We designed and applied a health and social intervention plan to residents, and, seeing that it was better to improve efficiency and build up more efforts, we called for a change of skills in the Health Department, as you know it, and as I informed the chamber. Also, in the appearance at this very event a few weeks ago, I explained to them all the planned work of indispensable coordination between the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families and the Department of Health. In a context of a health crisis such as the present, sense of doubt, the criteria that must prevail in the attention of our opinions and wishes is the health care, and here, the decision that was taken, urgent and imperative, of concentration of efforts from a greater health care, and that, therefore, in this case that was to lead this management of the social service centres of our country's residential character was to be the Health Department. So, in conformity with the legal authorization that allowed me to change..., which allows me to change the name, name and scope of competition of the departments in which the Government is organized, and in accordance with the urgent need to contain the effects of the pandemic on the collection of the great people who live and have lived in the residents of Catalonia, on April 10th I signed Decree 54/2020, amending a previous decree of creation, name and determination of the area of competence of the departments of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, for which I attributed to the Department of Health competence in matters of service policies, services services and social protection, the policy of the staff of the department of great skill. In this way, the Health Department went directly to manage the location and accommodation measures of patients in residential and social health centres, who would also be subject to health service inspection. On the other hand, with the Action Plan for the management of people in the residential environment and health care in a pandemic situation for the Covid-19, the classification and stratification of residential centres, as well as the integration of health and social services into residences, was carried out. The access of primary care teams to the residences has been the final key to intervention in the right direction, because they have come to an end at certain times 80,000 daily care visits and have also been able to finish control, support and support of residential teams while allowing better communication and interlocution between primary care, residences and families. Also the application of this plan has permissions to hospital centers, the territorialization of care in agreement with the health regions, and, moreover, they have appointed professional divisions that coordinated the socio-health operation in agreement with the territories and their needs. Thus, it allowed referrals to centres by location to people with the resources required by the organization of our facilities to assist people and SAD reinforcements in homes and residential centers. Up to now, more than 106,000 – 106,000 – PCRs have been made available to residents and workers, 106,000; 13 centres have been made available, the management company has been changed; 2,472 residents have been transferred to other areas and 681 have returned to their homes; 7,000 telephone interventions and 1,000 public health personnel have been made; 500 disinfections have been carried out to residents, and 8 million units of protection material have been distributed; 3,887 people have been targeted at the labour exchanges, and 100 professionals of primary care have been incorporated. Between May 1 and 15 we were able to make more than 300,000 medical visits to the residences, and, at the peak, there have been more than 800 equivalent medical and nursing professionals. In reference to the individual protection teams, it is true: we went later than we wanted. But they already know that the re-centralization of the purchase and distribution of materials that the State perpetrated was a disastrous decision, that it had consequences throughout the management of the epidemic, whether in hospitals or in residences. In order to finish this balance, we have to keep our learning, at my father's, next. We will continue to take care of people, because for us they are the center of the actions of the government that I preside, the people, their salvation and their life. We will not use this disgrace in the residences as a partisan weapon of political erosion, as some seem to pretend to do; to do so, to the irresponsible gang, would damage public opinion on a sector that works tirelessly for the welfare of people with more vulnerability. We also recognize, therefore, the incalculable value of this country's nodrid social sector, which is one of the main actors in dealing with this crisis, both to residents and to social care for people. I, with general character, if you allow me, now we cannot relax in absolute, and above all – and above all – at the residences. And, according to what Mrs Vergés has already reported, we are now preparing for a possible new evening at a later date. And that's why, according to the contingency plan that was presented yesterday by Councillor El Homrani and Councillor Vergés, she has almost 100_million euros so that she can shield the centers so that she can act with the highest celerity and so that she can ensure attention and stop the infection, if unfortunately the virus entered it. This contingency plan is the result of the experience of these last months. Only with the analysis of the action done, only with the lessons after, it is possible to correct or improve the performance. For this reason, and for what it does to the social service, the plan invests 56_million euros so as to reserve almost three_thousand places, 2,800, without occupying, 2,800 places without occupying, the cost of which the Government assumes, in order to guarantee in this way the aids in case of Covid, the separation of the residents and the care of the healthy people. Among other measures provided for by the plan, from the social sphere, there is also the increase of the staff of the centres: 1,800 more gerocultors, 370 night nurse staff, reinforcement of the functions of the sanitary officials and of the training of all the staff. For what it does to the reinforcement, from primary care, and they understand that it is in charge of providing attention centered on people, closer, more equitable, more secure, that guarantees the continuity of care to people living in residences, it will strengthen with the equivalent of about 450 health professionals, also intended to strengthen the care of residents, 163 doctors and 270 nurses. All folded involves an inversion of more than 15_million euros. Also, and finally, another of the measures presented yesterday is the creation of the Integrated Agency for the Care of People, a public operator who will be responsible for making an integral approach to personal autonomy and dependence on the social and health environment. It is for this reason that our concern now is to guarantee the protection material, to detect the cases of Covid that are due, to improve the information systems, to strengthen the intermediate care and to contract up to 500 liters of reinforcement and 450 professional primary care. I will not be in more detail, because the managers of the management of the residences during this period, the Councillor El Homrani and the Councillor Vergés, will now explain to them with more detail not only the work done during these past months, but the decisions taken until now and the actions planned also from then on. In this crisis, it is clear that it is necessary to rethink the model of care for the great people, always putting the people at the centre of the action, not only for what it does to users and their attention, but also for professionals, which means the best of services. This requires a process of reflection, of rethinking the model, and in this sense it is important what can come out of the Commission of Inquiry into the Management of Residences for Gent Gran, in which I hope, as all groups have said so far, that it is work with real hope built. That this work is always done in coordination with the sector, which always knows better the needs of present and future. I would like to remind you of a few words that I had the opportunity to address the whole of the city on May 2nd, and also to end one of the meetings of presidents. That day we arrived in Catalonia at a time when there were two thousand people who had passed through – a time when there were two thousand people who had passed through. It was a day to remember not only everyone, their families, but in concrete terms the great people who had left us until then. I said then: "According to writer Elias Canetti, the old age is listening and listening to others. After many struggles, many dreams, hopes not always fulfilled, it comes to the old age with the mess of the memory of a long life, of events that have occurred history and of people who have turned into records that have accompanied you in the way of life. Well, we need to know how to listen and hear the lesson of these days, because the bells don't ring for them, but for us, to remind us of every name, every record, every dream of each of the people who have barely left us. On behalf of the Government of Catalonia, I express my condolences to all families who have lost a father or a mother, a bird or a godfather, with the intimate and collective commitment to remember them all. We need to look after our great people, because they're us, they keep our memory and help us hear where we are and where we're headed, especially thinking about the younger ones. Never more than anyone steals the hugs they owe them. And now, you'll allow me, I give the word to The Homrani Councillor and then to the Vergés Councillor. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.5.0	Thank you, President. Continuing and following with this turn of the government, the words of the advisor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir the Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.6.0	Thank you. President of Parliament, President of the Government, Vice-President, Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, I want to begin my intervention by remembering, as everyone has done, all people, and in a special way felt all opinions and avies, godparents and godparents, great people who have left us because of the Covid-19, and I want to send, as has already been done, on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the staff of the department, a fraternal embrace to all the relatives who during these times have lost their esteem, and who have had to suffer a strange, hard, coma in which so many times they have not been able to welcome themselves as they wish and as they please. Our record, our tribute to all of them. And I also want to recognize the work of many and many professionals in the social sector, who have worked hard to help and give quality attention to people with social needs in the country; to all those who have put inexplicable hours, inexplicable efforts, to accompany the people they support, the most vulnerable people, with so many and so many moments of human quality that we will never find the words to please them as they deserve. To those heroes and heroes of many residences who decided to confine themselves to the advice and advice that they have taken care of and cared for, to all of them, a sincere recognition and gratitude that, of course, and have already expressed, we want to give all the members of this chamber. I would, if I could ask them one thing, only one, that is an honest, sincere debate; to the extent possible, it will be, centered on the most important, in which it unites us: to give the cure, the follow-up and the recognition that our great people deserve, the great people of this country. I don't know if we can forget colors and acronyms – maybe that would be asking a lot – but I do think that citizenship deserves to focus attention here: the cure of the great people of this country. They deserve it. All of us have been taught by our parents to respect and care for the great people. We all want to teach our children as well. The Covid-19 was not born in a residence, in a room of opinion and avies; the Covid entered it. He entered the residences that took all precautions according to the available knowledge, as he entered into others that might have made mistakes. He entered large and small residences, public and private. He became residents of large cities and small towns. He entered the residents of Catalonia, as well as all the residents of other countries who lived in Covid-19. He walked in when we knew a little bit. And I could go back in for a little while to relax. Make sure that, until now, these days, with all the precautions and expected knowledge we have, the virus continues to enter residences. I will therefore start by talking about the sector. Without this context it is not possible to understand where to improve the care system for people. A system that we've inherited, that we've built between all of us over the years. With a lot of uncertainty, sure; also with fevers that we have to correct. Secondly, we will talk about how we faced the health crisis in the residential area, also putting context because, effectively, it has not only passed to Catalonia, it has not only passed to the Spanish State; it has been a global pandemic. The reality that we have experienced, that we are living, and that, sadly, we are still living months, here and there, has been dramatic. We have experienced a limited situation, an extraordinary fact that we have to face without having all the data, without having all the knowledge, learn it every day, without having all the evidence and without the necessary resources. A new virus that has captivated us every day and that has had disastrous consequences. All in all, no one was prepared to put up with this pandemic; Catalonia, neither. There have been similar situations all the time: moments of confusion, moments when reality changed day by day, hour by hour. The world's public policy department is prepared to resist these impacts. I'd like to find all of us in this debate – and I'll talk about the future. I firmly believe that we have a duty to get out of this debate with commitments on the model of care for the great people of our country; they deserve it. Everything we do from now on will not undermine the patience that thousands of people have experienced in the last few days of their lives, and their families, but we must compromise that what we decide as a country, what we decide as a society, what we decide as a community, then serve to improve the care of the great people, to increase the social investment needed to protect the most vulnerable people. I would like to share with you what is the context in which we have found ourselves, who are the fables of the care system to the people we have inherited and have today. First: this is a system made between all. The residences of great people are the home of the great people of our country. The residential model and personal autonomy of our country we have all built. It is so true that we have inherited a system with fevers that an advent has occurred in the full attention oriented to abilities and autonomy that has led us to have the residences as spaces to live there; they are the home of thousands of citizens. Residential services are relational, they accompany the person and the family, they are and must be of promotion of abilities, attention to autonomy and quality of life. The coronavirus has, however, tested this model from the care and health perspective. He has shown us the shortcomings and weaknesses before a health emergency of the magnitude that we have experienced, not only here, but all over the world. In the model we have, assisted residence is the new home of the large person and, therefore, the income must be understood as a change of home without affecting their rights or accessibility to Community services. Secondly, we must bear in mind that the great people are the weakest people before the disease, and even more the people who have a home residence. The pandemic has been especially virulent with already vulnerable communities, both in the area of health and social, especially with people of advanced age and those who accumulate pre-salvation pathologies. We need to bear in mind that residents are seen by people who have been most vulnerable to this pandemic, with a mid-eighty-four years old and a 90_per_cent with various premeditated diseases or diseases, with a fragile immune system that has reacted abruptly to the virus and produced complex, very complex clinical quads. Fragile people, with a complex state of salvation from the advanced age in which they find themselves. Many of the opinions and opinions that live in the country's residents and managers have high dependency taxes, need daily help for the activities of everyday life. Many of them live in residences because they can no longer live alone or because their families cannot rely on the quality of care that would be warm. The population of residences is, many times, the most fragile among people with the most fragile. Thirdly, we note that the impact of the Covid-19 has made social inequalities worse. The relevancy of social factors as conditions of Covid-19's affectation may be evident. Studies show that the social consequences of the pandemic fall into the population that already accumulates more inequalities in all spheres. In addition to the social impact, we must also take into account the consequences in the mental health of people, both for the situation of confinement itself and for the closure of care and treatment during these weeks. I want to highlight other collections that have also suffered: people with disabilities, with mental health problems; the situation experienced in special work centres; the situation experienced by families because of the need to make decisions that have been tough, such as the closure of day care throughout the pandemic. Fourthly, we must make it clear that the social sector has not been considered a pillar of the welfare system. Lack of funding and structure. It is on the basis that the social services sector has always been faced with the problem of not being a structured sector as a real pillar of the welfare system, at the expense of the health system or education. The social sector has also failed to give sufficient consideration to the financing of public policies, since the deployment of the Social Services Act of 2007 and the State Act of promoting personal autonomy and caring for the dependency of 2006 coincided with the onset of an economic crisis and subsequent breakdowns. But it has also been determining the fact that, while health and education systems are perceived as systems that adhere to the conjunction of the population, we are not yet sufficiently aware that the social service system must also be universal. Everyone may need a hand at a time of our lives. We'll all get to a time when they're dependent. Five. The social system is an excessively atomised sector, a sector characterized by the diversity of operators and types of management of services, which has generated diversity of actions of different results. Having so many actors, so small, with different management marks robust treu to the system, makes it difficult to plan common goals and, also, the ability to respond before a crisis. From the social welfare perspective, care models focused on the person and residential models based on living units do not count on a single management model. We cannot deny that the atomization of the sector has often made it difficult for the various agents to cooperate and bring to an end a common strategy of providing services. All: Government, local world and entities, we have to go to one, above all, in front of the proper meso. I'll do it. We'll keep talking, planning and working. Agreeing and, also, disagreeing, but based on the dialog. The person-centred care model must guarantee a residential service such as relational services, support for the person and the family, promotion of skills, attention to autonomy and quality of life. Doing so to all residents always requires a more robust system, a major follow-up, a stronger shared culture. Yes. There has been an upsurge of large operators who sometimes have the benefit before the quality of the services. We have been subject to an application of contract law that has encouraged the emergence of large competitors who take advantage of economies of scale to cover tenders adjusting cost margins, lowering quality assistance and standardizing activity. Prior to this, the department has pushed for standard changes to limit this from the deployment of the social concert model and the bet for quality care and working conditions. And they have done so with the decree of the Law of 2016, the introduction of 2018 of the social concert, with the orders of accreditation and processing of the rule that will be approved this same month of July to the Government. Our model is that of quality versus price, it's that of proximity versus standardization, it's of care versus speculation project. And when this model didn't come along, we sanctioned, removed the management and shut down the centers. It should also be noted that the generality has encountered difficulties at the time of the contract of professionals per Chapter 1. During these times, the number of public places and residential services has increased exponentially, but the growth of public servers has frozen. We've grown in coverage, but not structure. And that's a problem. This situation has led to the public servers and their efforts and willingness to serve who have maintained the ongoing care. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware of the difficulties we have encountered in this Parliament in making contract rules for the service of care to people who prioritize care quality, as you are also well aware of the difficulty experienced in adapting the structure of Chapter 1 to the growth of places and services. Seven. The bad working conditions of professionals in the sector. This also has fallen on the shoulders of the social professionals: hierogulturists, auxiliaries and family workers are occupations with high rotation, because they have undergrounds and working conditions that are not at the height of their importance in people's lives. We must remember the conditions under which lower wages for the same work in the health field, low social prestige for a task that was declared essential from the first moment. Call a recon to the professionals of the residential services. It's about raising your social prestige. And that goes through a million of your wages. Wait a minute. The state's flagrant failure to finance the system has had a hard impact on its quality. This is a theme that goes from far away and explains the weaknesses of the system that we have inherited. In the mid-eighties, the State passed the skills of social services to the autonomous communities and together. They were, however, oblivious to passing on their financing. The lack of transfers from the State to social services in Catalonia is historical and very high. The annual debt accumulated during the period 2008-2019 is €3.649_million. It is the State that decides what the transferred resources apply and undermines the level of competence of the Generality and the Autonomous Communities. The deployment of the Law of Personal Autonomy and attention to dependency from 2006, with manifestly insufficient funding from the central government, has made it impossible to fulfill the objectives that we have set ourselves as a country by the conjunction of the system of promoting personal autonomy, for governments of different political colors. For example, the details of the People's Party, which the People's Party applied to the system in 2012 and 2013, which have not been corrected by the last governments. The elimination of the funding granted and agreed with each autonomous community that gave effect until 2011, the linear breakdown of a 15_per_cent of the funding of the minimum level to the autonomous communities. I feel it, so much so that governments in the State have acted in this matter until now. The needy have not yet been covered by 2020, with a system of financing of state dependence that has abandoned the autonomous communities that have to cover the needy with the same complementary financing. The fragile financing of the Catalan social service system cannot be separated either from the general problems added to the accumulated fiscal deficit, which is growing, the result of a global financing from the State to the Generality that is not equity, and it is not equity in two levels, beyond the political gaze, according to the competences that the Generality has, nor with the volume of population, and this does not go from a political look. Moreover, LAPAD is a law that the State has always incompleted as far as funding is concerned. The State has never provided, not a single year, the proportional share of the financing it is seeking to apply and deploy the law, the law that they themselves have done. They've never completed it, not a single year. This is a law that we had to stick to European levels of social services, but in change, it has become a new problem. From 2013 to 2019 the State continues to transfer from mid-January to 17_percent of public resources, much extended from the 50_percent that would be close to it as the guarantor of the minimum and universal financing. We are talking about nearly 400_million annually, which would allow you to make a qualitative leap in the system of dependence in Catalonia, and so much. I think this is the clearest example: the economic contribution of families in this country is superior to the contribution of the State. This is the reality of a situation that straines families, that straines the system of care for the great people, including the residences. But there is a _second effect of LAPAD that also straines residences strongly. Another of the effects of this law has been to establish a system that prioritizes, logically – logically – people with greater dependence. This fact, in itself, is reasonable. It implies that large people's residences have more people with grade II and grade III dependency. That it's very strange to find a grade I, and that affects in a significant way the care needs of people living in large people's residences and, obviously, the costs of functioning. So we have a system based on the idea that residences are a place of life for many great people, and therefore an integrated attention. But without being perceived as a universal system that serves everyone, the system of social services carries a deficit of reversal and consideration. We have had a pandemic that makes it difficult, that will be impossible to face if we do not understand the social service system as a pillar of the welfare state at all effects. The crisis of the coronavirus has led us to a limited situation that has obviously strained the social protection system of the country, especially the health system, which has been affected by a strong care pressure because of the rapid ability of the virus to spread. The government – and I think we need to recognize the governments of the war – has been involved in the management of the crisis. The government of which I am a party had to face an unexpected and very virulent situation never before, and therefore no historical references with which to contemporaryize and value for others. Therefore, it is necessary to face the emergence and manage the unexpected, to stop the coup, to stop the damage. It was necessary to put all available resources into the service of concrete causes and priorities. If we are first in March, with the information and knowledge that there were then, it means that we were dealing with a situation of great complexity. From all we know now, I believe that we can objectively affirm that the government's response has been based on reacting in the fastest and most empathetic way possible, hearing social complexity and working in coordination. The answer is to make very different equipments and services between you and by means of very different response teams between you. The response required intense coordination of the entire government, working together with the sectors of the country. Worked in coordination with all agents: employers' unions and other administrations. Surely we may have deepened it further, but it has been done from this look and seek joint solutions: more extensive to the solution and to the construction experiment. I am now going to detail the actions we have taken in the area of the department, in a crisis situation that is faced for the first time, in many more viscous situations. Cal, first, have clear criteria, put people at the center of action, especially the most vulnerable. The first objective was to protect the people we care about from the department. At the same time, providing the essential protection because our professionals can continue to work with the maximum guarantees of safety. And this is an element that we could have done better, we've discovered that the key is detection at first. It would have been nice to have made more PCRs, but at that time the availability was what it was, and only in residents of large people there work more than 88,000 people, only workers; more than 60,000 residents. Secondly, as long as there were many actors and very quickly the need for communication, it was necessary to establish permanent contact and constant collaboration with other sectors and with the citizenry, to establish permanent channels of communication from the Territorial Servants, from the territorial teams created with the crisis was in permanent contact with the sectors involved in the first response of the Covid-19 crisis. We have strengthened the territorial structure, we have created new territorial structures of the department to expand coordination with local administrations and the Health Department. A specific web space opened to the citizenry for communications about coronaviruses was opened, the necessary actions were carried out to donate the citizenry's interest information. For example, in four days he was informed, he gave basic protection information in more than thirty different languages, twenty-two in writing, and thirty-six in audio. The situation of economic paralysis that was decreed by the state of alarm resulted in the fact that, from our department, we also had to respond to the urgency of those people who had gone unworked. The crisis brought us to an exceptional reality, and the department's response had clear objectives. First, monitor the situation of more than two thousand services and department equipment on a daily basis. Second, give answers to the difficulties of more than two thousand servers. Third, help them overcome the difficulties, accompany, strengthen to return to normality. For this reason, in the area of residences, the steps of the work plan were established in a very clear way so as to stop the contagions. First, monitor the situation and analyse the priorities of the action. Second, intervene, create new spaces, drain residents in crisis, lock or intervene on those who were in the most critical situation, strengthen the residents in which they had acted, and all those who would need it. To compile a map of Covid's net residences, Covid's residences, mixed residences with sectorization capacity and ally. For this reason, we created a monitoring team and established a constant data collection system, with us in the department, with daily contact with more than 2,000 equipments, collected for the department, we dictated measures and instructions in the residential and other areas of care to people to stop the infection; we intervened residential centers, we hired reinforcement personnel, we facilitated PPEs, equipments, without distinguishing ownership, public or private. We opened up spaces to get residents out, created reordering spaces, took thousands of transfers to drain assistant services and make sectorization possible. We made contingency plans that included sectorizations, training in infectology and winging, and we made disinfections. All this effort has been made from our department, a department that has suffered a double crisis with a very high impact in the social sphere and in the field of work. Over the last few years, we have driven a series of policies that have strained the structure of the department, we have taken on the burden of labour for a staff structure that was not designed for the current needs of people. I want to apologize if anyone has felt that we have not arrived, people who may have felt suns. I sincerely believe that it is necessary to take a self-critical look and rethink the department towards the needy of people, with the clear will to give a better answer. And I want to insist on one idea: it was an exceptional effort, an effort that went beyond the obligations of the department's professionals, not the policy makers. An extraordinary answer that I want to put a lot in value and I want to thank sincerely. You don't know how proud I am of the servers and public servers working in the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families; you don't know that. Large residents are a very vulnerable collection of the world. For this reason, the same time we deployed the operations, in parallel, we set up a team to analyze the response in other countries. The most relevant conclusion, which is objective in the analysis, is that the tragic consequences have been ill-advisedly similar. We haven't been on an island near the sea. No country, no society of the world, was prepared to face an epidemic of these dimensions; no government, neither. According to data published by the Ministry of Health, 95_percent of deaths in the State are more than sixty years old, and the highest percentage of deaths are from the eighty years, 60_percent. According to the WHO, at least half of these people killed by coronavirus throughout Europe lived in a large people's residence. Unfortunately, the virus entered the residences well before the first warnings by the world health authorities. It is possible that the virus has already been to the residences, and that in Catalonia we were one of the first territories where the visits were banned. We have also learned from later studies that the large number of asymptomatic infected people, also among large people, has probably been the most significant explanation of rapid expansion. And as we are all aware, the entourage of residential centers has facilitated the spread among residents. All the appointed governments have agreed on the bulk of the measures: Austria and France have banned entry and income from residences abroad, as we have. Just as the National Ethics Committee of France proposed the return of residents to their families when this was a shared desire between residents and their families. A measure that we have also promoted, and that has proved to be effective and legitimate criticism. Even the differences in the type of centres, more institutional to countries like France, Italy and the Spanish State, and more prone to a wide as in the Nordic countries, there have been common problems: the lack of tests and of protective material to the hinterland, the lack of professional and specialized training, and the lack of integration between social and health areas. Compared to the rest of the territories of the State, we have also advanced with measures that have wanted to stop the infection and protect users and workers from the residences, as I will detail them further. The complexity of the situation has made us rethink the system. Social emergence has forced us to question what we have so far: terms, procedures, protocols; everything has jumped through the air, everything has to be reconsidered. It was to deal with new situations and to do so in a context of tension, for and for. At the same time, to make a serious debate about what has happened to us, it will be necessary to analyze other variables to better understand the context in which we have to make decisions. In this sense, the study of the Hospital of the Valley of Hebron, which is public last week, states that 70_percent of the people affected by Covid-19 and who live in the residences are asymptomatic. This evidence, for example, would have provided us with very valuable information at the time of the pandemic's greatest impact on the Catalan residential system. Therefore, we cannot forget that the analysis of facts and decisions taken then took into account what we knew about the virus and what the experts gave us. Their evolution, today's data, all the learning from the struggle and the work of these months now allow us to open the march and lay new strategies for the struggle against the Covid-19. Then, at the end of March and during the month of April, the variables were what they were, and the decisions we took were based on the evidence that science brought us at that time. In order to advance to a new possible rebound, together with the Department of Health, we have developed the contingency plan of the residential area, which has as its objective to implement all measures to prevent a new crisis. And also remember that the recent and controlling will of management by the Spanish State was a big mistake. No reasonable country has made this decision. In a crisis situation, the organizational structure of a state is not changed. Besides, managing proximity is always more efficient. When do thousands of operational decisions have to be taken before thousands of local situations, how does it feel to centralize? With the state of alarm, we should have waited for the ministerial orders to be able to act in the residential centers of private ownership. They arrived at the end of March and did not materialise health care until April 4, a_me after the onset of the health crisis. In change, this department intervened the first residence – a change of management – on March 25th. One of the other negative aspects of re-centralisation was the purchase of EPIs. It was an erroneous decision that made us lose more than two days and broke the chain of sub-administration and distribution. It is then when, from the department, we decide to look for lives in Xina and make purchases directly, despite the royal decree of March 9, which centralized the entire purchase of material. We will be able to buy with guarantees at a time of global attention thanks to the collaboration of drawings of Catalans and Catalans of Chinese origin, to whom we must thank their collaboration, which allowed us to make a map of drawings of possible suppliers, and between them, to be able to sort out the most operating, which gave better conditions of price and service. From the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families we sent two cards to Vice President Pablo Iglesias, after two social councils where we all participate with competence in the field of social matters we shared. At these meetings he made sure they got EPIs, and he wasn't there. On the same 20th of March, the Vice President of Social Rights explained that they assumed the purchase of EPIs exclusively for residences, that they would reach the autonomous communities and asked us to quantify the needs. They were EPIs that never arrived; we're still waiting for them. When we saw that the required news did not arrive and proliferate, we made the decision to buy it. I'm sure we'd have to have it before, but I'm still waiting for some response to these two cards. For what it does to the actions carried out from the department, I would like to emphasize that it has worked since the first moment in close coordination with the Health Department and with the actors involved in the residential system. From the first day we developed and gave to know protocols of prevention, handling, cases detected and possible of Covid-19, always in coordination with the Department of Health. We were working, the first meeting was on March 6th, with the unions and employers in the sector. We worked out the social and health plan of residences together with the Department of Health. This plan stratified the residences from monitoring data, followed by the incidence of the Covid, the need for personnel, material, PCR application and allowed the Primary Health Care to focus on the sectorization and the areas. I am going to explain all the actions in the field of prevention and protection in the residential environment in front of the Covid, with all the detail that this appearance deserves. Before the WHO declared the pandemic, March 11, and the Spanish state declared the state of alarm, March 14, we already wanted to activate a whole series of actions to protect the lives of large people, people with disabilities and mental health. At the end of February, we were already sending the first protocols and information on protective measures and action to deal with the coronavirus. The first weeks of March already applied the measures to protect people living in residences and their workers. (Pause.) I'll explain it in detail every day. The 28th of February is from the end a communication, from the department to the residences, of the first protocols on the handling of Covid-19 cases prepared for the Department of Health, with document of frequently asked questions and is begun to work in its application to social and residential services. March 6th we wanted to bring together employers and unions to address the situation of the coronavirus from the residential area directed to large people, people with disabilities, people with mental disorders, and we agree with the sector: prohibition of visits by family members with symptoms to the centers to avoid the risk of contagion; development of protocols for the treatment of suspicious cases; dissemination of prevention material. On March 6th we agreed, together with the sector, that the first training was only a recommendation. And surely, we were wrong, it wasn't supposed to be a recommendation; looking at it now, it wasn't supposed to be a recommendation, we had to make an instruction to ban the entry of people and, with them, viruses, as we were going to do a week later. If you look at the data, you'll see that the peak of the infection wouldn't have been the same if we'd won a week of time. Now, I remember, too, huh? , that the one who came out were critical to ask, to recommend that he is not visiting family members to the residences. On March 9, we published the general recommendations of the residences for the prevention and protection of Covid infections. On March 11, these recommendations were expanded and deepened, and became instructions for residents in the prevention and protection of infection. There are two day centres in Barcelona for confirmation of one case in each case. The Home Care Service is activated to support the users of the day centres. They're tanking civilian couples of people, barred couples and ludotheques. The spaces of day centres and residences when the building is shared are extinguished. It makes an instruction to reinforce the hygienic measures. It's the suspense of our tickets. Restriction of visits to emergency cases is done. On March 12, the protocol for the coordination of day centres for large people and home care services is published. On March 13th, the same day that the classes were suspended in Catalonia, through a resolution that I myself sign, are suspended the new entrances and all visits – at that time it is already forbidden – to the residents and day centres integrated in these residences. It is the generalised activation of the home support service to people who were left without day care spaces. Health measures are updated in the home care services, staff measures, waste management and surface cleaning. On March 14, when the state of alarm is declared, the system of surveillance of the impact of the Covid to residential centers, based on a daily self-declaration of a set of information that fills the following centers: residences for large people, for people with disabilities, for people with mental health problems; residential centres for children and adolescent wards; floors for victims of male violence; floors for refugees; floors for HIV-positive people. This is a preventive tool, which allows us to know the situation of each of the centres and the situation for regions and health sectors. March 20 begins the distribution of materials, of EPIs, with the limitation that we had until the first purchase made for the department arrived – as I said, surely, we should have done before. March 23rd: interventions in Montserrat Olesa, creation of joint work teams Salut-Treball to classify users and classification of residences. March 24th: it begins to work, in the march of the Procicate, in the need of disinfection of residences, as well as hygiene protocols and disinfection with public salvation. March 24th: The House of the Sea is opened as a space to relocate people with disabilities with symptoms. March 25: it is the first intervention in a residence, the residence Ballús, of Valls, and it is the change of operator. March 26th: we decide to pay the cent_percent of social services, as well as those that were closed, and this allows us to reorganize human resources to respond to urgent needs. March 26: Resolution of temporary exit and voluntary of users without going home with their families, from the medical report that this allows and without loss of place. March 26: Agreement with the Catalonia Health and Social Consortium to strengthen and train professionals. March 27: inn in operation of the Hotel Núria, in Tarragona, to relocate fifty-three residents. March 27th: opening of a store of PPE materials suitable for the department at the Barcelona Convention Centre. March 28th: the disinfection service for departmental residences is set aside, through enabled businesses; they make the first disinfection charges. Finally, between March 23rd and June 23rd, 619 disinfections in 453 different centers. March 29th: arrival and distribution of the first first purchase of the department's own material, more than half a million protection elements. March 29th: the Barcelona Residence Office, one of the most critical situations we have experienced, together with the Department of Health, with the Barcelona Assembly, with the Consorci de Serveis Socials and with the Consorci Sanitari de Barcelona, is set aside. The April 1st, from this inn on the way to the office, begins the Pla de cliniques sociales de Barcelona, together with the department and the Assembly, for the relocation of one hundred and thirty people in spaces of mutual accidents of work and the incorporation of their professionals in the struggle against the Covid : the Fremap Clinic, the Copèrnic Clinic and the Sant Jordi Clinic. Intervention of coc to twelve residents of Barcelona, of which four are emptied completely and eight, partially. And I want to stop myself. I want to make a thank you to the mutuals of work. At the most complex time, they made themselves available to this department to deal with this situation and they had to thank their managers and all the professionals who, without any expert in geriatrics, worked together. I want to make this thank you. 2 April: inn in operation of the European Space in Girona to relocate 147 people. 3 April: inn in operation of housings to Lleida for relocations, also. 6 of April: opening of six lodgings because professionals of the residences can rest and eat and because they do not have to go home. 7th of April: beginning of work for the opening of the Parallel residence, with 220 places to gather positive residents and allow to reorder the map of residences of Barcelona. April 7th: above the second purchase of propi material for a value of 5_millions; 4.4_millions of individual protection elements. Adding the subsequent purchases, in total, until today, the department has purchased 9_millions of protection elements for the residences, for a value of almost 10_millions of euros. April 8th: for the benefit of users and so as to speed up decisions in all areas – because we were, and are, before a health crisis – the decision is made to pass the residency competitions to the Health Department. We continue to work together: before, at that time and after. April 8th: the services of a complete logistic operator are contracted for the reception and storage of all these EPIs. As you can imagine, 9 million EPIs, this department, we weren't prepared to manage them. We're looking for a professional company. Keep going? April 10: Reordering spaces are enabled in collaboration with the mutuals– Mutuam Collserola and Mutuam Güell. April 11th: Marvi Park residence is reopened, on the Mallorca street of Barcelona, now as the reorganisation space of negatio residents. April 17th: online training program between SOC and the Continuous Training Consortium through the virtual platform of workers who integrate into large people's residences; online training during the week of April 13th to 17th, with the collaboration of the Covid-19 Warriors entity. From an agreement of the Foundation ICT Social Health and Vodafone is configured, with workers of the department, a thousand devices, that will be distributed to the residents of large people to facilitate the communication of the residents with their families. April 19th: opens a new space, Llars Mundet. April 20: the material management is passed to the Department of Salvation. April 21st: the new residential information management application comes into operation. April 24th: agreement between the department and Metges without Borders to train professionals in the residential area. Mirin, according to the same criteria of the Ministry of Health, there have been 368 interventions of staff reinforcement, of relocation of residents, according to the criteria of the Ministry of Health. Throughout this period, changes in management have been made to thirteen residences: the residence of Sant Adrià, which has a precautionary measure of confinement; the residence of Ballús, of Valls ; the residence of Prat, of Tona ; the residence of Marvi Park, of Barcelona ; the residence of Virgen de la Salud, of Vilanova del Valles ; the residence of Ullastrell, of Ullastrell, also with precautionary measure of confinement ; the residence of Our Lady of Pallares ; the residence of Ca n'Amell, of Premià de Mar ; the residence of Sant Cebrià, of Tiana ; the residence of Bertran and Oriola, of Barcelona, which has as a precautionary measure the withdrawal of the management of its operator, Eulen, and the residence of its operator ; the residence of Sant Cebrià, of Tiana ; the residence of Saint Cebrià, of Oriola, of Barcelona ; I wanted to explain the whole timeline to them, with the most important elements, but I think they deserve to know the whole timeline. I want to focus on three key aspects: u, the reinforcement of staff to residents; two, the opening of social spaces or support; and three, the territorialization of decisions. On the strength of the staff working on the residences: the foundation of the residential system in this country are the people who work there, it is their highest value; women and men who throughout the crisis have worked as hard as possible and who today are still working hard, as they have done in many..., as they have done many years ago, despite the fact that they have had an undeserved social recognition. The residential centres have encountered four main problems before this crisis, which are not very different from other areas: u, difficulty in disposing of IPRs, and the number of infections and the risk of infections that this has entailed; two, difficulties in replacing staff who are sick and present symptoms, partly because of a sudden need, partly because of why it was generated to work in the residences, because it was generated by – and we also have to say – because there were no RCPs and because there was little knowledge. Difficult in many cases, especially in small centers, to correctly realize the winging due to lack of space and lack of PCRs. Difficult to manage staff downloads without having PCRs during the whole month of March and good part of April. Nor can we detect asymptomatic infected workers who were working, nor can we give high-ranking workers who were suspected of being ill, but who could not know with certainty. Now we know that it is essential to do the PCR, both to residents and professionals. This has caused us to get about 15 percent of the professionals of large people's residences in a situation of isolation or with symptoms. A much higher number of downloads than usual, partly due to malalty, partly to treat vulnerable people before a possible infection. In view of this situation, we have strengthened the professionals of residences, both public and private. The main actions we did were the activation of home care. Home care workers covered the declines of resident professionals; more than 277 support professionals who worked in seventy-two residences, who spent more than 31,000 hours of support. The creation of the SOC work bag and the cry of professionals, the displacement of professionals. As he explained to them, when we made the decision to pay for the cent_per_cent of social services, we also made the obligation to make us available to the system. This enabled us to mobilize 2,732 professionals from closed services to residential facilities. Contraction in own-residences. Mirin, from the beginning of the confinement until May 19th, we made 2,248 contracts or appointments in own residences: to assist with geriatrics, nursing graduates, social educators, because there are also centres of children, and cleaners and cleaners. The creation of the virtual training platform for people who are to be incorporated into large people's residences, 1,500 professionals have participated. If they allow me a parenthesis in this report, when we talk about the need to dignify professional training is for these moments. We lack concrete profiles, and we need to be able to give value to certain professions, such as gerontoleg, cures..., so that young people feel like they have attractions or people who are working there tend to qualify. Overtures of social space or support. In order to improve the care of residents and decongest the residents with greater pressure and with more cases of people affected by the Covid-19, equipment and alternate spaces were put into operation. I look, in total, with the whole crisis, counting large people, people with disabilities and people with mental illness, we moved 2,800 people, in forty-two we spaced. This has been a huge effort. It has been a possible effort for the workers of the department, of the Department of Health, of the assemblies, of the basic areas of social services, of Civil Protection, of the Bombers – and if they allow me a special thanks to the Bombers of Barcelona, which were involved in the cent_per_cent in Barcelona. In these journeys we were able to move from a confus map, in which we did not know who was aware and who was asymptomatically ill, to a map of clean, infected and controlled residencies, and mixed residencies with a good level of sectorization. Forty-two of us spaced, like the residence of the Paral·lel, which after being closed for two years we opened it in two days, with a change of skills for the middle and it did not affect. It was an absolutely necessary measure. I, then, the territorial decisions. To be able to respond from the proximity and improve coordination in the health field, we have organized operating teams in each region and health sector, we have equated the territorial structure of the department with the Health Department, an experience that has proved to be more than necessary. From each of the territories it operates in a different way, depending on its reality, but the general scheme of action was planning in the field of the opening of space, the realization of contingency plans for all the residents of large people, the transfers and the coordination of the different administrations involved in the field of people's attention. That's how we've operated all over the place. I would like to take this opportunity to talk about a subject that has been given great importance: the transfer, to the Department of Health, of residences. As you know, and as we have reported today, the situation of residences has been complex and very difficult. The Department of Work and the Department of Health and all their professionals have been coordinating since the first minute for what they do to the protocols and protection to the centers. Now, during the second fortnight of March, he came to the most difficult days of infection and death. For this reason, because the situation was difficult, this government made this change, and this councillor gave it full support: full support. We were in a pandemic, it was clearly a health crisis with an impact on the health of people, especially the most vulnerable. It was necessary to restructure decision making to be more operational at the territorial level, because each basic area of health and social services was more agile and more effective in giving medical attention to the disease and avoiding any possibility of collapsing. For this reason, the Government decided to prioritise the health criteria in the care of these people, which was the Health Department that led each territory to the attention of the residential centers. The forces of the two departments were added to intensify the response to the centres of great people, disabilities and mental health. The coordination was the same before and after the decision. The functioning and the operating teams of each territory were the same before and after the decision, but the decision of each transfer, of each exit to residence, which had entered into a crisis of human resources, or of each residence which did not have the capacity to make aids, had to be made from the territory under medical prescription and with the highest celerity. Each decision to move, each decision to health care, each decision to assist each bird and any part of the territory was to be taken as a faculty without any red tape. Picking up on the decisions of midwives and midwives, the celery, because priority was and is to save lives. It meant that health care providers and health care providers had a clear competence to make health decisions about a health crisis. And that decision was taken leaving behind political and public issues, posing before saving the maximum possible lives, caring for people. This was and is my priority, that of the whole government, no doubt, and it was an uncertain decision. In the same way that I criticize centralization, the re-centralization that the State Government did, this decision also allowed us more territorial capil·larity, because it must also be self-critical with the centralized gaze that had been built from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and it sought this territoriality, because it touched swift and rapid responses, and the best way to have agile and rapid responses is to leave them in the hands of the professionals we have in the territories: the Department of Health, the Department of Labour, whatever other departments. And now I'd like to talk about the future, first, in the short term, of the more than likely return at a later date. If a lesson leaves us the crisis is that we were not prepared for a pandemic of these characteristics and of these dimensions, which no government of the world was, nor were we. Still, we gave an answer to a situation of extreme difficulty where there were many lives at stake. This government has prepared for the late with a joint contingency plan to deal with possible outbreaks and contagions in residential centres. If I may, I will explain it from three key actions: the reservation of empty seats for residents – the President explained – 2,800 seats that the Administration will continue to pay and that will be kept empty to facilitate accommodation and sectorization in positive cases. And I am aware that this will not go well for the waiting list, in totally conscious soc, but the important thing is to be prepared for a possible second time. There will be support spaces, such as the residence of the Paral·lel, for the relocation of residents in case of congestion of equipment and structural difficulties. The second, increase of structural staff to the residences to deal with a possible second wave. 1,800 more hieroculators and auxiliaries; an increase in the rate of 15_per_cent for direct attention, and who is in charge of taking care of and completing the bases of the organization against the Covid-19. The contract of 370 night nurses, because from now on all residents with more than sixty public places can have a nursing attention for twenty-four hours. Reinforcement of the figure of the sanitary officer. And in the third place, also very important, the hiring of staff close to the department. A program that will allow us to hire 219 technicians to strengthen, especially, the areas where we suffered more: Barcelona city, Metropolitan North, Metropolitan South, Catalonia Central, to strengthen territoriality throughout the country. This new staff will be dedicated to follow-up on all local residents, to strengthen social inspection, and to accompany local authorities. The health care department will be able to explain it to the Health Counselor. In summary mode, that's how we prepare from the department for the later. One of the learnings that leaves us the last few months is that the work of rethinking and updating the addiction care system cannot go back. The model needs to change, and it needs to put more people in the center and ensure a much more solid public anchor. What's the residential model we want from then on? The crisis must make us reflect like society in many spheres of our lives. And one of these is how we want to face the challenge of aging. How we want to face the rise of the population of over sixty-five years. The data indicate a very clear trend: in Catalonia in 2050, the persons older than sixty-five years will be 30_percent of the population; almost one_of_each_three. So, what attention do we want to give to our great people, and what attention do we want to receive from ourselves? Because all of you, all of us, are going through the services we're discussing here today. We recognize, now and here for all, the system of social services as the third pillar of the welfare state. Fem-ho, because there was the well-being of the people who preceded us in the fights, who cared for us and who accompanied us in our growth as people. And this recognition must be based on three aspects: the growth of the presuppositional endowment, the recognition of its professionals and the rethinking of the sincere model. To make it possible, however, there is an inescapable question. The State – and it's inescapable for Catalonia, but it's for any other territory in the State, huh? – will he assume his responsibility and complete his commitment with his citizens, his citizens, to finance the Law of Dependence? I remind you again: of the 1,500_million euros that this department allocates annually to dependency – which represent almost half of the budget of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families – only 203 come from the State. I repeat, huh? : 203. I believe that these are some of the debates that we must honestly and sincerely have, but above all, what we need to agree on is a new model of care services for consensual people in the country. The Social Services Act 2007 was the result of consensus. The social services in Catalonia have always been based on joint work. At the same time, the joint work must also serve us to analyse shared responsibilities among all actors in the social service system: public administrations, employers, unions, social entities, to know how to find shared answers to the uncertainties and mistakes of these months, which we have not all come to. We've all failed, and we all have to be able to learn and plant the necessary actions so that we don't get through again. We need to build a real governance model shared with locals, third sector and socio-economic agents. And, at the same time, we can continue to adjust the public service offer to the real capacity of the system to finance it and provide it. And, therefore, so that we can give full guarantees of access to all citizens. And to reflect among all who is the best management the system has to have. Our bet, as we have already said, is the impulse of public-social cooperation. We need to increase the size of the public sector. What we need to know how to build is a system of social measures that you give to each of the needs that vagina appear with age, a social system of zero mileage that is close to the needs of citizens, that is flexible, that can be adapted to what people need and that makes use of Community resources. Until recently, a person's temporal sequence was: working, retiring, going to the couple and entering a residence or hospital to spend the last moments of his life. The services offered for the health system and for the social services system that we have had have enabled the success of the aging. We live longer and, in general, we do it in better conditions. And that changed the sequence and turned it into: working, retiring, going to a couple, going to a hospital, being in a socio-sanitary, paying attention to the home, returning to the couple and possibly entering a temporary residence. Hence the policy of servicing the great people of the future should be a policy of personalized services, adaptable with a variety of resources that allow to offer concrete services to the concrete problem of each person. It should not be based on a sequence of institutions, but on the object of attention, the maximum autonomy, the maximum capacity, the maximum customization of attention according to the needs of each moment. And always with the best access to the good and you serve public. For example, better health and social care must never mean more institutionalization. Better attention must mean living in the best environment for the autonomy and abilities of this environment. Have equal access to healthcare and social assistance. We will not fix it with more residences or with more institutionalization. And I think we should say that. So let's talk about serving people in their own right. The idea, therefore, of enhancing a zero-kilometer envelope. Enhancing personal autonomy, living at home, shared homes, assisted. In the event of a residence, in centres much more suitable to wrap up with the community, and when the person has more need, he or she has more right to serve. What we're looking for is to wrap up with quality and as much as possible around the house, better. At the same time, it is clear that it will be necessary to strengthen medical residences for the most dependent people, but we cannot allow this model to stand by according to the person's needs. At the same time, if we say that the future is home care, that what we want is quality services tailored to people's needs, whether medical or social, we need to be able to integrate much more public health and social services systems. It will take both of you to learn to value the good that the other does. Cure and care are essential. We need to stop political debates and ask ourselves what system we need and how it relates in the social and health field. I want to de-bureaucratize and make decisions about the territory. We need a system of public governance, resilient, very strong, with public operators – complemented with social and private operators – but with a look at quality, the axis of its action. Build a powerful and continuous home service and service system. Learn how to use the resources of the community: families, barrels, community services. There are also better information systems, with connected management control systems that make it easy to manage and follow by citizens and that allow sharing and taking advantage of the public value of data from different departments, shared public knowledge to manage better with ICTs. If the family has to play a role in caring for our great people, it will be important to know how to build a personal family reconciliation system, powerful work, and equality between women and men. And I'm saying all this, which may seem very big, because we're talking about 2050 almost one in every three citizens of this country will be over sixty-five years old. And, above all, we must not forget that, by choosing the model we choose, we will be able to prepare the professionals, train them, build networks and balance the remuneration between systems with so many points of contact as that of health and social services, rethink the current service portfolios and convert the services and services into more integrated products that guarantee the attention that is needed at every moment. Vital : to open the debate on the integration of servers. Finally, we also want to reflect on the model of care for large and dependent people. Like the country, we don't just need to review the residency model. We need to rethink how we care and care for the big people, the most vulnerable people, the dependent people, who require long-term care and care, and how we manage this challenge of responding to a growing need every day, of responding to the challenge of aging, with what governance and what operators. It is important to ensure the most appropriate public response to people in vulnerable situations, with complex health and social needs, due to their fragility, chronicity and dependence. And if we add social exclusion to that, the cocktail is complicated. This is why we need to overcome the fragmentation of care processes and facilitate the transition and continuity between the health and social system. We believe that this review should be done with a public operator, in the form of an agency, that integrates the social and health environment, in the different stages of the process: evaluation, planning and action, that also has governance with the operators of the social world; a design worked together with the sectors involved– local administrations, socioeconomic agents, entities, citizens–, an integrated agency of care for people. And we want to make this debate, seriously, that I give answer on the combination of services and policies of personal autonomy, from home, through the Community to residence. Either you have a global look or we won't do it right. With participation, he wants to address in an integral way the dependence and personal autonomy of the social and health-care environment, which aims at maximum autonomy, life at its own level. Understanding institutionalization as a temporary support, and not as an end of the stage. This is the proposal we want to talk to everyone. Short-term priorities will be to redefine the residential care model and realize integrated, social and health care in the residential area. The medium and long-term work is to say, in the next few years, it would be a new model of dependency management, process of detection and evaluation of needs and integrated care, strategies of promotion and prevention, reinforcement in community intervention, strengthening of healthcare and social assistance at home, ordering of long-term care. In short, improve the care quality of personal autonomy, with the clear will to build a public operator that influences the quality and integrity of the model. But I want to do a reflection, a reflection that we have to do like society, and that we have to do all the administrations, if we believe in social services, in the attention to dependence, in personal autonomy. If we really believe that and think that we really need to be the third pot of welfare, we need to strengthen public funding. Social services and dependency are underfunded. And I say it with peace, because it's what I think and because it's what I know. If we want to make it a pillar of the welfare state, such as pensions, education and health, if we want to create a real public system, public support must also increase significantly in the next few years. If we want the system to have universal and quality coverage, more than 10_percent of people older than sixty-five years who are residing or receiving home care, we need to make a very large leap in quantity and quality. This is a country decision, which this Parliament has to approve, but, if I may, it's not just approve, is it? It is possible to do so, because this Parliament can approve many things, but either we can or we do not give an honest answer to the citizen and the citizens who listen to us. And to talk about the future, too, we need to talk and focus on the current precariousness of the sector in terms of attention and people. This will not happen until the sector has professionals with social recognition towards the developing task, and this recognition must begin for the better of its working conditions. For this reason, this government's commitment..., because just as they demand that the law of dependence is fulfilled, I must also place it: the commitment that this government must have and that this government has is to recover the lost years for which it does in the area of tariffs. With extended assumptions, last year we raised rates in the area of dependency and disability. For this year we are looking at an increase in tariffs. Now we think it is necessary to make a leap in this environment, an increase with a clear will to improve the work situation of the workers who are old to the well-being of our mothers and fathers. The will is to mark a full course of updates for years of success that requires continuity in order to be able to generate standards of professional remuneration that do not extend to the health sector, and start working on the salary equipment. That is why the look is very clear: the equalization of grade II and grade III means remunerating care services to people with common needs. It also represents an increase in the scope of daytime care for large people. And this increase means continuing the reversal of the details that went wrong. And regardless of state funding for the Dependency Law, the Government of the Generality will make this effort. I want to end as I started, with a record for the people who left us and their families, a recognition for the professionals of social services and for the care of the big people and vulnerable people. Professionals who have donated it many times since the lack of social value for their great work: geroculturators, cleaners, social workers, occupational therapists, social educators, psychologists, midwives, nurses and nurses, physiotherapists, management and management staff and others. I also say again that we are doing an honest analysis of the system that we have inherited, with its virtues and its shortcomings, that we are doing it for the great people, because after we have donated everything we have, they must; that we do not lose our girls' passes to the quality of life to the residents, to the lars of more than sixty thousand people of this country. Improving the health care of these collectives has turned out to be a great need, a great improvement. Doing so from public primary is the way, but confusing healthcare with institutionalization would be a big mistake. The improvement of social and health care, and as long as it does, but at home, at the barri, at the community level and at the residences. Losing personal autonomy and losing capacity building, that's never. If this crisis does not add to the inequalities, we emerge from the crisis with more equality, we take advantage of the opportunity given, we strengthen the financing of policies of support to the most disadvantaged, we work on the construction of a system based on operators of higher quality, centered on the person and their quality of life, not on the return of a financial investment. We strengthen public governance capacity, give it the necessary structure to further increase coverage, demand everyone's commitment. Ours, but also that of the State. It has to end once with the financing of a system that does not hold, we are prepared for this late, so that we can react with everything that we have after, with more power and celerity than has been done, because in everything that I have explained to you, the situation has been very harsh, in all the actions that we have done day by day, the situation has been very harsh. With EPIs, with PCRs, with more staff, it's how we want to plant this late, with much more knowledge about a disease we don't know about. Let us not go back to the mistakes of centralization, before crises in which thousands of operational decisions are to be taken, decentralized and clean to the territory. We have the teams in place, the staff reinforcement lives for if they fall, the direct teams engaged with the administrations and between them, accompanied and supported. And not patient, coordination between departments exists, coordination went well before the competition change and continued well afterwards. We're prepared for late, I don't doubt it. Very tired, too. Professionals are very tired, but it's going to rest and we'll come back if we need it, we hope it doesn't. And we plan, and above all we assume, a new system strengthened, with public governance for the future, based on the autonomy of the person, the zero-kilometer envelope, the quality of life of the home, the change of role in institutionalization, with better social and health care at home, at the bar and at the residence. The quality of a country is not based on the value of the strongest people, the quality of a bad country in which the most vulnerable people are cared for. We take care of the great people of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then there's the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.8.0	Thank you, President. President of Parliament, Councillor El Homrani, Councillor, Vice-President, Councillor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, and all the people who can also follow this House. I start the same way as the parliamentary groups have started, so also the president and the councillor, with a sense of record to them, to the families that have not been able to eat like lime, that just now at times in these ceremonies they can start to hurt, but I would also like to talk to the people who are living here today and who are at home and who are great, why who are we talking about here? Who are we talking to? This way? I wonder if they are listening to us or can listen to us, I would say that my colleagues would not have listened to us in Parliament, but they trusted us, that's for sure. If they had overcome two world wars, a civil war, the black chapter of the Franco dictatorship, why not trust that generation to which they had given everything? I think it's important to keep this in mind. So that's why the same one the counselor was asking, that I think it's our duty, an honest debate – an honest debate – and that's why, like they explained very well everything we could go on these hard and raw weeks, I think we need to put the context, right? , of our great people, of our great people who live in residences and the context we have experienced, which is a real, global pandemic that has affected us a lot. This honest debate I think needs to be taken into account and, if not, it won't be. Sometimes I feel intervention and it makes me feel, therefore, that we are talking about any device, in a certain place, without having passed any epidemic or without being such a complex thing. It would be much easier to act when an emergence occurs in a given place or in a given environment. But that wasn't like that. He's been a general, he's been all over the country and he's been, above all, different for the most vulnerable people to this coronavirus, who are the big people. And that's why, and I can honestly say, this government, Councilman El Homrani, and I, who wanted to accompany him too, coordinating us very well from Health and Social Afers, have always had this priority of protecting the great people; always, always present. The hope of life in our home is one of the highest in the world, and this is very good, but this must be accompanied by quality of life. The growth of the population there is, with a population every time more diverse, that brings us complexity but brings us rich. Catalonia grows up to the seven million people we have now, and that's not so many years ago, as we descend at birth. I'm growing up and I want to say, now we're talking about the big people, but a real country policy is to make birth policies, family policies, from the smallest to the big people. Christmas is looking for a 30_per_cent in the last two years and a 5_per_cent in the last year. It's a lot, it's a lot, it's too much. The aging since the year 2010 of people older than sixty-five years has increased by 14_per_cent, and over-enveloping to 4_per_cent. For this reason, we have a great challenge, which is to take care of people wherever they may need us: chronicity, comorbidity, the social aspects of the person. And social vulnerability is not separated from all this, the percentage of the population that lives alone grows with age and predominates in women, the same way that dependence does. And that's why we can say that the envelope also has a woman's face. Multimorbidity, increase in life expectancy causes more people to live with one or more chronic diseases every time. 50 percent of the population over sixty-five years of age has three or more chronic illnesses. The complexity of a 5_percent of the population makes 40_percent of the resources of the health care system devoted to it, and this we can only achieve with a system like ours, universal, that leaves no one behind, supportive and acting as needed. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to give these people an answer. That's important. Having us equipped with a universal salvation system is important, and here I'll hook up with what Councilman El Homrani commented. Therefore, our challenge is to manage as best as possible the needs of everyone, but also of these 5_per_cent of the population, much that lives in the residencies. The social determinants of salvation explain the state of salvation for the most part. And here, too, he comes in as a wrapper. Reptes are policies of salvation for an envelope that provides maximum salvation, with the person in the middle and with quality of life. 32_percent of people living in residential centres are people who have complex chronic patients. Go on, a word like that... may sound scientific, but ultimately it determines complexity, it determines chronicity, it's to say, it's an episode that doesn't end and that we have to be able to manage it, and it determines that they're also patients. Therefore, residents also end up with patients in the health care system. That's about 10 percent of them suffer from advanced chronic conditions, and we already know what that means. The aging that, in 2012, the middle age in residences was seventy-seven years– seventy-seven years–, six years later, 2018, is eighty-five years. This shows us how the last few years have changed reality in our homes. With one complexity: 2018 is also almost 92_percent of people living in residencies are classified in these categories of maximum clinical complexity or high risk, and also 54,3_percent of people living in residencies have dementia; very hard dementia. Dependence. It is identified that 97 per cent have recognized a degree of dependence and that this percentage is almost II and III, as the counselor explained, is more complex. And that's what we add to the fragility. And this has caused the mortality in the residences to increase beyond the last few years in Catalonia, facing all these previous points, up to an annual 22_percent. We can talk about 1,000 people, more or less, who leave us monthly, where their place of living is residence. This pandemic, from the beginning until July 5, mortality has been 27.2_percent of people living at home. This change in clinical profile, this new clinical profile is asking us with more professional time and more therapeutic follow-up. And we must also make self-criticism, as I think we could do very well from the government, and explain the reality as it is. We're here to explain. For a band, historically the primary care has the population that lives in the residences as the assigned population. And this has to be this way and it can't change. But it has to be done this way. All this has always been very heterogeneous in the territory, and this has complicated our response. For a band, there is a regulatory framework duplicated with professionals of the same formation, they can be nurses mostly but also midwives and midwives, so either they currently depend on the department of Social Affairs and Families, assigned to a residence, according to a certain amount of time, or they depend on the health system. In rural and semi-urban areas, the relationship is really stable and close, and that's it. And in urban areas, with more care pressure, this contact was lost or diminished and those more administrative tasks remained, those that the regulations require to be in a certain way, such as the control of medication with prescriptions that must be made in primary school, also by regulation. Here we have to move forward, and we can move forward in the proposals that we have worked together with the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families. We need to change from a support model to a direct care model, where the primary care team to the residential center needs to be much more, and to improve the continuity of care also by mediating this relationship between the health team of the residence with a nursing manager, in conjunction with the primary care team of proximity. And, on the other hand, given the high comorbidity of the residents, who end up taking a half of eleven drugs, make a model of pharmacotherapeutic care that needs to evolve, with the incorporation also of the pharmaceutical figure in the care model. And that context we've already put it out of manifesto. Our 2018 governance plan defines a joint strategy between social and health areas, essential, to strengthen the value of comprehensive care for people and the efficiency and quality of the service delivery model. Thus, it provided for the definition of a model in the service network focused on the care of people and ensuring a continuous care. And the government agreement of June 25, 2019 creates the Integrated Social and Health Care Plan, with a more comprehensive step that was much written, much debated, and that also incorporated other previous plans, as an instrument of action to address people-centred, comprehensive, integrated, effective and quality care; take into account this equity, this sustainability and ensure that any person, at any time of life, is considered in their globality. And that's very hard, it's very hard to do. It's very difficult to do in an administration – and he said it very well to the counselor and explains it very well – that it is also fragmented. And I mean that the Administration is fragmented, fragmented, and society is also fragmented. We're breaking up a lot: from what I'm talking about, from what I'm talking about. We have a firm will, Councilman El Homrani and myself, to finally break up with this. And the consensus in this room is there, the consensus to do that is there, the consensus to move forward is there. Therefore, in this honest debate, I hope that we know how to take advantage of this opportunity to really move forward in this integrated attention which must be shared, jointly managed, and which does not overwhelm itself at one of the two glances. Neither health nor the social complexity that has come to be, but in all areas of personal autonomy for people, of caring for people, can be addressed only in the solitarys of the Afers Socials, as we know today. Therefore, this impulse, we have the opportunity to give it – we have the opportunity to give it. If for something to serve crises and pandemics, please, please, for this; please, please, to restore confidence, sure, to the yachts and to the advice, that they give it to us – that they give it to us. The councillor has explained a lot of the follow-up of joint resolutions that we have done from before and all that I have done..., an affected person yes, because we started on the 25th of February, but without there being any death either to the residents or to our country. He explained very well, with detail and with chronology, date by date, all that we have done as a government, from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, together with the Department of Health and with the support of the whole Government, to ensure the incorporation of sufficient staff, that it is already difficult to take on from the residents who are immigrating to a health crisis; from the power to derive from the primary care to the socio-sanitary field and to the hospital of acute residents who need it, important. Let me be clear: all that they needed we also incorporated into our resolutions, instructions and orders from the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families and the Department of Health. We had to put in management, insistence. And from that work of collaboration, then, when we also take over from the Department of Health the Directorate General of Personal Autonomy and Disability, we also believe it is an impulse to create the figure of coordination of residences, and so we did: a person who can coordinate, lead the whole residential environment, as a critical point of this crisis that we have been living. And it divides people delegated to the whole territory, because, as the counselor has said, decisions to the territory, territorial management..., and we, accompany and help that you can take these decisions and that you have all the necessary tools and tools. Also, on April 10th, the plan of action for the residents of large people, with a clear objective: the response, the most appropriate response to the situation, obviously increasing health care, because we find ourselves with a health crisis that meant multiplying by three primary care visits that took place to the residents. The counselor also spoke of the material that had to be made available to the residents and of all the difficulty that we came to have so that we could do so. We improved the circuit, we made it easier, and we also absorbed from our logistics service, so we could get to all the residences. But it is not just the material, the personal protection team of the professionals, but also the oxygen that those people who needed from the residences needed a support for their respiratory pathology and that made it possible, therefore, for their welfare, not to draw them to other centers, but to be at home, to the residence. With the need of professionals that we had, with the cries that we did, up to four thousand professionals that we have targeted at this time. With massive screening strategies, sectorization to control the infection and recover the safe environment at each residence. And, obviously, we needed to relocate people, because we can't do it all from the same residences all the time, with this list of residences that we have in our country. The first visit I made after total confinement was April 22, the day before Sant Jordi, late, in Igualada. I went to the residence where I worked just before I was a Member of Parliament; I worked there for more than four years. I compromised myself with them, with my companies, with the workers, who would talk about them, who would talk about the advice and the yachts they took care of, that they took care of them with so much intensity and that I would try to convey how they felt, what they felt... because at that time they were very busy, and I compromised myself. If they feel guilty – it's very strong, huh? – they felt guilty, while they had done everything. I said to them: "But if you have done all the more! You've done all the more for the advice and you've taken care of every day! They had done everything they could and felt guilty. They felt abandoned from the understanding, many times, from the families, when they could not answer the phone because they had no time, because they were working, they were taking care of opinions and avies. Perhaps abandoned or misunderstood by society, by all of us, for sure. They felt sad, because maybe they didn't have this point of recognition that the health professionals had. And I compromised myself that I would try, before talking about doctors, nurses, talking about the resident workers, who were also a little bit of bed– never more so– taking care of the opinions. And they had to, they had to go back to those worse days. And this is what we see isn't over, this pandemic. This is why I said: "I want to put into context what we are in..., that is, the reality of the opinions and answers we have to our residences, the health complexity they have, not only social, but also the context of the epidemic we find ourselves in. They had to make those days so hard. I said before, it could have been easier. I said to them: "If only we had been here... only we had been there, it was very easy to wear support: wear professional support, wear material support. But when it's global, it's happening to you all the time, it's happening to you on the same weeks... The same weeks that the patient's residences, these two weeks of march, first of April, were the same weeks that the first week was attended to home people with a clinical complication, were the same weeks that the hospital emergencies did not stop with Covid patients, were the same weeks that sometimes those patients from the emergency were born directly to the ICU, were the same weeks that we were going to increase our capacity for conventional beds at the hospital, that we were going to look for other spaces, hotels, pavilions to be able to care for everyone. This is the context – this is the context – we can't forget it in this debate either – we can't forget it in this debate. And from this context we can learn a lot. And one of the things that I compromised with them – and I also compromised myself at some meeting of these that we had with the sector – is that we can't talk only about residences in the darkest sense. It's very hard to say bad news. But they also say to me: "Well, try to say those things which are also there, which are also fulfilled. From the saying of reality, we also try to say those things that are done: 10,805 great people have recovered, have recovered from this horrible Covid, 10,805 people. This is positive: 10,805 large people living in residences have recovered from this Covid. All the moves that we had to do..., that I could repeat them, but, like it seems to me that also, so, the president said, I just want to highlight one thing: yes, we fought because there are people who, if the families wanted and could, could go to spend these hard weeks at the family's house. We fought there, they found it fair. We had to look at what protocol would allow us to do with maximum security, just as we are now struggling to get back to their home, which is residence, and that they can also make it safe. Also with these massive cracks that we did and that they gave security, like at least, to the centers, to the professionals to be able to sectorize well and to make clear passes within the same residences. With the primary attention he took, and that I must be very grateful to have been there when they were also patenting a very beastly complexity. And also, in order not to spread too much, too much, with these interventions that we have to make to different residences. Intervention of residences is neither easy nor goes from dilluns to eight-to-three sales. This means that there were people working, looking at the dispatchers, looking at the answer, preparing the dispatchers for intervention... There were people of our teams working disbanded and diminutive in all of this. And we have, moreover, to look at this continuation of the epidemic, which has not ended, making plans for decontainment, see how we can recover those things so inhuman that we had made the virus, how we could re-activate the residencies, how we could re-accept tickets, how we could re-allow family visits so that we did not put the residencies at risk, and all this barred with why they still had in the centers, classifying the residencies. That's a lot of work. Because we have always had a good look at protecting vulnerable communities, at this stage of decontainment, and also at the stage we are at now, from dam. And we have already said that we would always take concrete steps to protect vulnerable communities. And it's wrong to do it another time in the region of Segria. The first important measure is also to protect vulnerable people. So another time – the counselor said well – with this information, that recommendation that we did not visit residents that March 6th, if I'm not mistaken, if we had already made it a prohibition mandate, would we have won anything? Possibly, with the information we have now. So with the information we have now, we've banned the Segria region from visiting residents. And we weigh a lot, we weigh a lot. Luckily, we worked very hard because there are communication alternatives for family members with residents, which is very important. And they also say..., not only in residences: the great vulnerable people who live at home, say to them: "Stay home. It's time to prevent, when the incidence is high, and to prevent vulnerable people first. Stay at home – stay at home – and just go out for that essential, and, if you can and are around, so help your surroundings, and, if not, among all the administrations we have to help and support vulnerable people. And with this we are also preparing for a possible second that can be, therefore, more important, more accused than the buds we have. And, as the President has also been able to give practical details, I will only focus on something, perhaps the object. This plan complements the Action Plan for the management of people in the residential environment and health care in a pandemic situation, which we started from the beginning and which we have been modifying between the two departments. The idea is to prevent and intervene; but not to intervene alone: first to prevent – first to prevent –, it is the first pass of a good strategy. The preventive level is key and important, preventing the appearance of infection, the protection of professionals, to the extent possible, with the protection material, obviously, but also with the correct sectorization of the centers; with the same classification of the centers; with the continued formation of residential professionals, which is key, this formation, in order to be able to make a good prevention and be absolutely prepared for what is coming; with the early detection of the infection. A case in a residence is an outbreak and forces us to act, a case in a residence we consider to be an outbreak and forces us to act. Also with public health interventions coordinated with primary attention and with the addresses of the residents and the sanitary officials, who are also technical responsible in this sense. And with the health care of the territory, with the protocols of attention and the taking of clinical decisions, but also with the reinforcement..., which I want to highlight one thing, not so much the xifra of the 450 professionals– metges, metgesesses and infirmaires–, nor the xifra of the millions of euros, but it is a reinforcement that is a structural action and that has come to stay. I think that's what we need to highlight much better. And also the mid-term care centres, these socio-health centres that we have in our country, which are at this intermediate level between the hospital and the complexity with which this primary care is; an intermediate level that is essential for our health system, but that also has been and will be essential in this pandemic. And that is why, from 1 September, we want to have more than five hundred beds prepared precisely to be able to derive, when near, from people who live in residences, but not only: also those who live at home. Obviously, this plan incorporates all the share of social assistance itself, which has been well explained by the advisor, and also the information systems, such as the ECAP, which is the application that we have to manage from primary care to the totality of residences, with access by doctors and nurses, both the same as the residences, as well as when primary professionals can move. With a system of surveillance of the impact of the Covid to the residential centers, of compulsory declaration and daily, that is able to have information to follow the epidemic, and with a network of sentinel residences to identify early all the incidences in forty-two residences of different regions. And I also want to end this very clear bet on behalf of Councillor El Homrani, from the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, in collaboration with Salut, because we share the same look on the model of care for the great people and to promote personal autonomy. We need to rethink how we tend and care for the big people, yes, but we don't need to conceptually rethink it. Actually, we have a lot of advanced work, conceptual, implanted, inn in the plans. We must move forward in order to plan together, to be able to jointly manage the territory in a centralized way, with an agency that integrates the social and health life and that shared this governance. We've got the back of the envelope. Given to the beginning, it is a great reptile of our country, as it is Christmas, it is a great reptile to take good care of our great people. We are after the Covid that we need this powerful integrated social and health system, a system that I do not only care for – and this allows me to say that it is not that the health care system and the social system take care of, but that the two must therefore be involved in healing and caring for it–; the importance of giving impetus to community health and to addressing the social determinants of health, which will also allow us to act on a quality of aging, and the importance of emotional salvation, respect for personal autonomy and decisions – not to act with paternalism, to explain the reality, the cruelty and the good – with the right to decide, with the anticipated will, with everything that includes the services and the attention that we have from the government. We also need to age because each person is fit in the most suitable device for the person and his own environment. Not always the most complex device is the most suitable device for people. This is a bottle error, which we're trying to simplify. And we need a specific formation not just from the Covid, but globally, to be able to cope with this pandemic and the futures we have. The primary is central and referent in all processes. Primary care helps us to connect very well, to make this integration – health and social – that we so much need. And that's why I think we have a duty that is as great as it is: to respect the work of caring for people – and that's what I think has been said here in Parliament, and the counselor has said it – to listen to the wise words of the humble experience of the great people, and to do everything there and more for a dignified old age and with the maximum warmth. I ended up as I began: a sense of escalph to our great people and a thank you, thanks to the health workers, yes, of salvation, but also to the workers to the residences for all that they have done for them and for them, all that they have done for the advice and the yachts. I think they're an example for society, and we need to keep this in this crisis. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. We are now following the debate with the interventions of representatives of parliamentary groups and sub-groups. To fix its position, and in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Lord Lorraine Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.10.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, first of all, from our group we do want to regret that today the entities of the sector, the entities of civil society, have not had a voice in this Chamber; we would have liked to hear the voice of the professionals who have been giving the battle from the residences, acting as genuine unknown heroes. And from here he took the opportunity to thank them too, and may this plenary also serve as a tribute to them and for all the sacrifice of the last few months. Look, there are seven political forces in this Parliament, seven parties that over the years have manifested their profound differences in all kinds of debates about the past, the present and the future of our land. Seven political forces that undoubtedly have different ways of seeing society, different ideologies that have made us propose different paths for Catalonia, but I am sure that, despite all our encounters and disagreements during these years, despite the heated debates, we have never agreed on something as we are in this: Catalonia today would not be what it is without the work, generosity and sacrifice of our elders. From here our most sincere condolences to your families and your relatives and our tribute. I do not think that there are words that can sufficiently honor this great generation that with their effort, with their sacrifice, that with their work and generosity they have made this country a very great country and a very big society too. They lived the horrors of war and post-war. They gave us a lesson leaving the wounds behind after forty years of dictatorship, opening a new stage of reconciliation and freedom so that we could live better than them. During the 2008 crisis, they again sacrificed themselves, sharing how little they had, their small pensions, to help their children and grandchildren. And yet now, when they most needed us, when the time came to return to them all that they had given us, with a pandemic that had them in sight, we failed them. Our elders were seen alone, helpless and vulnerable to a deadly virus that does not distinguish anything or anyone, and we could not accompany them and be with them, we could not explain to them what was going on, we could not hold their hand so that they felt our affection in these last moments, nor did we fire them as they deserved. And we all feel this pain, because we have all experienced this pain closely. The virus has not made any distinctions or ideological, economic, identity... The virus has made us all victims and reminded us of our status as vulnerable beings. Everyone here is aware of this human drama that has been lived in the homes of the elderly, a drama that will always weigh on our institutions as a slab, a drama that must push us here today to agree solutions from unity and responsibility. Let's do it, let's make agreements, for the sake of our elders. They who are older but who are also very great, by their experience, by their wisdom, by their generosity, but who also need us. Let us learn from the mistakes now that the rebounds are already here; it has already been spoken in this rostrum, and we are very concerned about what is happening in Lleida. And it is good to recognize the mistakes; it seems that by some counselors the mea guilt has been toned – not in every way, only in some, because we have also heard those old canteens to blame others. But it is not enough, it is not enough to recognize the mistakes: we must learn from them, in order to be able to face these setbacks, which, I insist, are not only a threat, they are not only a warning; we already have them here. And we cannot afford to continue to lose our elders for tens of thousands, because a just society is measured by how we care for them in the most difficult times. We've already failed them once and we can't fail them any more. Look, the drama that has been lived in the Catalan residences cannot be repeated again. And we in Citizens understand that we are facing the worst health crisis probably in the last century; that no one was prepared for this, we are aware, and that governments have had to act on the march. However, Mr Torra and gentlemen of the Government, other governments have the argument that they have tried, that they have allocated resources, that they have put everything in place to try to stop the coronavirus. Instead, you here have continued to rule for the process and for self-determination. And it is not a thing that I say, although Mrs Budó denies it with her head: it is that this has been proclaimed by Mr Torra to the four winds, yourself, Mrs Budó, saying that in an independent Catalonia everything would have gone better, that there would not be so many dead. You have endeavoured to remind us, day after day, that your priority was not to be left to the lives and jobs of so many Catalans. Therefore, I ask you to learn from the past, however painful it may be, and to put your hands to the work to save lives in the future, to protect the elderly in Catalonia from these rebounds that, I insist, are already here. These rebounds, as I tell you, are fought with learning. Months ago, the Covid-19 became a sigh of our streets, and being older became a risk situation from one day to the next. Where we could not react, the virus became stronger and stronger, causing a great deal of pain. And this time there would be no excuses from those who manage the health crisis. Failure this time would be doubly unfair and doubly painful for the families of Catalonia; so failure cannot be an option. Therefore, I insist, gentlemen of the Government, that you learn from the mistakes, from this human drama that has been lived in the residences of Catalonia, so that it does not happen again. Look, we've been talking about figures here today. I don't want to talk about numbers, I refuse to reduce the lives of our loved ones to a simple number, a simple percentage or a point of that fateful epidemiological curve. Every lost life, every hope taken away by the Covid-19, must be enough to make us reflect. And we need to know what happened, not just to look for culprits, but especially to find solutions. We must be prepared for the future, and that goes hand in hand with an analysis of what happened. Because it is true that this virus did not have instructions manual, and in this we have insisted a lot, and I recognize it, really: no one was prepared for a crisis like this. But now we have the experience, and it has cost us too much to not take advantage of it. Look, it's impossible for mistakes to be corrected, as I told you before, if they're not recognized. And here, then, it has not been managed properly. And it is true, I insist, that they were not the only ones, it is true that these mistakes have been repeated throughout several autonomous communities..., throughout Europe we have seen how the residences of older people are probably the ones that have suffered the most. But the evil of many can never be comfort, and especially when we are talking about so many lost lives. All Catalan residences denounced the lack of material, staff and decision-making. EPIs did not arrive, contagions were on the rise and improvisation did not predict anything good. In the face of this chaos, I insist, denounced by all Catalan residences, we, from Citizens, put ourselves to work. I remember that on March 23rd – just a few weeks, a few days after declaring the state of alarm – we already asked you, from Citizens, to ask for the help of the EMU, to ask for the deployment of military medical personnel. If the residences were overflowing, why not use this available medical staff? On March 31 we also ask you not to block disinfection; I insist, a specialized military unit that offered to go into the residences to disinfect and that however there was a refusal on the part of the Government. And this request was a request that we reiterate from our group during all the weeks that this crisis has lasted, astonishment at the refusal of this government. And honestly, today, I still don't understand why that answer, why you didn't want to accept that help that was offered to you, disinterested. On 5 June, finally, and at the request of our group, we met with Councillor El Homrani, a meeting from here, so I would like to highlight the positive and constructive tone on both sides, in which we facilitated a battery of measures that emerged from the work that our group had done by bringing together with dozens of entities representing the sectors most punished by the Covid-19. And we put those proposals and those solutions and measures that we thought were the best to tackle this crisis at the disposal of the Government, because we don't care who put those measures in place, if they serve to help the citizenry. Well, it's been more than three months, already, since that March 23rd when we started moving and asking for things for you to announce a contingency plan for residences. It is a plan that comes late and it is a plan that forgets, for us, one of the most essential parts, not only for us but also for the sector, which is prevention. Plans to act in the face of a rebound, of course, are important, but I think it is the case that residences try to make the rebound not even happen is even more important. And for that the key is prevention: disinfection and testing; they are essential. And what we are asking you to do is to listen to the sector, to talk to them, and that is why we were sorry that they could not be here today with a voice, and we hope that we can hear them in that committee of inquiry. Look, during this crisis we have seen how material was lacking in hospitals and residences, while here you were raising the salary to the former presidents; we have seen how the EPIs did not arrive, while you were still watering with public money, for example, the separatist embassies. That's been going on here for these months, it's not something we made up. In those extraordinary plenary sessions that we were doing in the midst of the pandemic in order to carry out the necessary measures for the Covid-19, you used, for example, to raise the salary to the former presidents. And I understand that it hurts you to be told from here, but it's reality, and you can't live from behind to reality or deny what you're doing. And this can never happen again – it can never happen again. Neither you, Mr Torra, nor anyone can again put a political or ideological cause – whatever it is, it doesn't matter to us – above the health of Catalans. None– none. Look, Catalonia needs to face the rebounds with two things that you are not exactly left with, which is with prudence and responsibility, Mr Torra. And only then will we be able to protect the health of Catalans, give them certainty and give them confidence. I imagine these days so many Catalans worried in their homes, worried to see this news coming to us from Lleida, in fear of repeating the toughest weeks of March and April, the fear of becoming infected, the fear of having to close their business again and, worse, the fear of thinking about their parents or grandparents, if they have them in a residence. And I am convinced that what the Catalans want is for us to take the lead, for us to solve this problem, no one else. They don't want to see their government blaming others, no. They want to look at them, they want to look at us, at all of us, and feel protected. So, when we get to this point, I think there are only two ways to deal with this situation: either to stay in frustration, in anger, in sterile criticism, or to look to the future and put solutions on the table. We, in Citizens, have it very clear. The rebounds are already here, and the question is, what have we learned so far and what are we going to do to keep it from happening again? Look, Citizens are part of the groups that requested the commission of inquiry, because we want to know what has happened in the residences, what have been the wrong decisions and who or who have been responsible for them. Not in order to look for a culprit, but, I insist, in order that it will not happen again. Because only the truth can make us free. Some may be afraid of the truth, probably those who were wrong; but believe me that uncertainty and ignorance give even more fear. It is not a question, I insist, of looking for Turkish heads, but of enhancing what has worked and discarding what has not. Because here, in Catalonia, I again insist, there have been repeated unusual situations during this crisis, situations that have not occurred anywhere else in Spain. Again Catalonia has been the exception, for evil, of Spain, an exception moreover especially painful on this occasion. Because the better the citizens behaved, with more civicism, with more responsibility, with more solidarity, the more it hurt us to see the Government of the Generalitat denying the help, I insist, to save lives in Catalonia, or seeing him, Mr.Totra, gnawing for half competition, in the middle of the hardest pandemic of this last century. Look, the circumstances have changed, even though you have continued to err; not even in the midst of a pandemic like this have you been able to set aside discrepancies. I would like to ask who was responsible for denying those permits for the EMU to go into disinfection in the residences, who takes the decision, this disastrous decision. I do not even want to think or imagine what will happen to me if, in this committee of inquiry that we are in the process of doing so, there is evidence of fatality and negligence in making that decision. What would have happened if that disinfection had been done in time? What would have happened if military medical personnel had deployed to the residences, as demanded by Citizens? And they are very hard questions, especially because I am convinced that many families ask themselves these same questions every day, those families that have lost a family member without even having any news of themselves, without even being able to say goodbye. These are very hard questions, of course, but I understand that someone will have to take on that responsibility. There have also been serious shortcomings on the part of the Government in relocating staff to residences. This crisis has been terrible for everyone, but those who have suffered the most from it or have suffered the most from it as no one have been the health professionals and those who took care of these residences and take care of our elders. We lost our strength every day in the battle against the virus, and in a situation like this, it is supposed that the councils and the Government should have led the search for personnel, but yet they did not. And we also want to know why: if it was for leniency, if it was because you were overcome by the crisis during those critical weeks, or because you didn't see it as a necessity. Note that there were people – and this has also been said here in this rostrum; therefore, we do not denounce it just us from Citizens, also other groups share this opinion – who for more than fifteen days were unaware, without having any news of their relatives within the residences; residences that, although public, told them that they could not give them that information. How is it possible that this could happen at one time, in addition to so much pain, so much uncertainty, so much vulnerability for our elders? Where is the concern to also manage the suffering of those family members who lived with fear? – let's not talk about the patients anymore. We want to know, we want to know the answers to all these questions, gentlemen of the Government. And as leaders of the opposition, as well as the rest of the Catalans, we demand you to know what has happened and what is the extent of your responsibility in this human drama. And it is not worth making decisions and then diluting the responsibilities, it is not worth rejecting the help of the rest of Spain and then saying that Spain is responsible for everything. That's not worth it, Mr. Torra. And, look, if Catalans have to reflect on their Government's role in this crisis, I think we all have to think very seriously about the conditions in which many of our elders live. The reconstruction pacts, which we hope can be reached between all political forces and social actors, cannot be forgotten from the intergenerational approach and attention to our elders. It is an issue that we must address here and now, because the more content we put into this plenary, the less room there will be for improvisation, sectarianism or opacity. And I insist that the rebounds are already here; therefore, we have no time to waste. This pandemic has highlighted the situation in which thousands of older people live, some in residences that do not meet, some of them therefore, the quality that is required and that these people deserve, and some even that have lived during this pandemic in solitude in their own homes. Along with the sufficient resources and the necessary transparency of the centres of older people, we must also move forward in a model of care that ensures that they are accompanied in their own home, that they have a full, active life and that they maintain their social networks for those who do not want to leave their environment. We can never again allow age to be a reason to create second-rate citizens in Catalonia. Look, there is a fundamental reality in the management of this whole crisis, and it has been, as I said, very difficult to manage by all the autonomous governments, yes. But you've also been caught with the low guard, because you were thinking of other things that had nothing to do with the management of an autonomous community. And during these years from Citizens we have told you on countless occasions, we have asked you several times about the social unprotection to which you had been subjected to citizenship; we have promoted several full monographs for you to reorient your policies. But nothing, you were only interested in your book, your book, your process book and your Table, your Table, your Table of Shame, nothing more. And you will pass to history as the government that in the midst of a global pandemic, for, rejected the help of the UME, said that in Catalonia more people died because we were in Spain, or even saw strange conspiracies in the number of masks supplied. And maybe this doesn't matter to you, but it's that you're also going to go into history because you're the government that failed the Catalans when you needed them most. [[Widow's remorse.]] And to the gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana, who sometimes look good in Madrid when they are interested, I want to ask you: What have you achieved for millions of Catalans in this crisis with that blessed table of your self-determination? What have you achieved? Nothing, they didn't get anything at all. Do you know who has obtained aid to extend their entitlement to benefits for Catalan self - employed persons? Citizens. Do you know who managed to extend the ERW beyond the state of alarm? Citizens too. I ask you again: Mr de Esquerra Republicana, what have you achieved for the Catalans during this crisis? Nothing. So, gentlemen of the Republican Left, I will also tell you before the Socialist Party, that I think it will also be good for you to listen to what: do you know what table we need in Catalonia? The table of reconstruction between Catalans, which you as a government refuse to push. If you want a table, you feel like most Catalans are looking for solutions for the citizens, and not just solutions for their party partners. Too long you have been obviating your responsibilities as a government. And I don't know if they've noticed us, but it's just that we came to this crisis without their councils being well fat, because they didn't do the daily work, because they didn't manage the real problems of citizenship well. And that's why the crisis has come to us with outstanding social challenges, with the social structure for citizens in the bones [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] While he was squandering the money. And we warned them for a very long time, and they never wanted to listen to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.11.0	Excuse me, Mrs. Roldán, it's that the system has crashed and is restarting; therefore, the clock does not count. Approximately, he had a little less than fifteen minutes left; therefore, I will count this limit of time from then on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.12.0	15 minutes left, then?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.13.0	Yeah, I think it was a little less, but you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.14.0	Thank you, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.15.0	...will have until this moment, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.16.0	Well, after this interruption – thank you –, as I told you, this crisis caught us at a bad time, because you for a very long time gave up managing your competencies as a government. I think everyone remembers Mr. Torra saying that he had not come here to manage an autonomous community, and when someone does not come to manage an autonomous community, then we find that when a misfortune like this comes, we are not prepared to confront him. And I insist that we, for many years, have been warning them, but they never wanted to listen to us. And here many things have failed at all levels, and luckily we have counted on those anonymous beings of whom I spoke before, who have left their health – literally, they have left their health – to avoid further deaths. Even you, Mr. Torra, recognized on April 2nd that there were things that the Generalitat had not done well. You said: "We did not do well not to inform the situation of the residences with the clarity with which we should have done so from the very beginning. And, as I was saying, it's not enough to recognize what, you also have to learn from mistakes. Look, one of the fundamental problems has been that the Government has imposed on the residences to work with a ratio of professionals and with economic endowments that were designed in 2007; therefore, with a reality, so very different, as you can imagine, from that of an emergency context by a global pandemic. And I want to remind you that that Social Services Portfolio legislation indicates that it has to be renewed, that the Social Services Portfolio has to be updated every four years. Do you know how many times the Social Service Portfolio has been renewed since its creation? No one needs to search the papers: never, never in all these years, since 2007, since the creation of the Social Services Portfolio, you have been able to update it. Why? Because you have preferred to take care of your client networks of nationalism, rather than to take care of those people who need to be protected by the public, because you are vulnerable, like the elderly, whose quality of life and attention to them has naturally fallen, because you have not taken care of them since 2007. Because in Catalonia the portfolio of services has been emptied as the portfolio of some who came to the institutions to obviate their service to the citizenry while their pockets were being filled. Look, the Social Services Portfolio, as I'm telling you, is totally out of date, and yet you come here to talk about second referendums, the referendum referendum – which is that I am already lost here –, about what is going to be called the party of those who have done so much harm to coexistence, we all have to be here pending Mr. Torra's judicial calendar or the quarrels that you have with your government partners, who come here full after full to look back, instead of being pending what is really important. It's a shame – it's a pity. This is the priority for you, but nevertheless, to talk about the portfolio of services and to update the, if so..., another day, right, gentlemen of the Government? That's how you've worked all these years. And if any, then protect the residences, you also leave it for another day, it seems to be, because you have been completely unprotected, without masks, without EPIs, without tests, without any kind of help from the government. And I insist that we do not say this, as the professionals in the sector say, that we will have the opportunity to listen to them in this committee of inquiry which we have opened in this Parliament. You may be able to tell me – because I've seen you before that you were doing a lot of terrible things, when I was blaming you for not having accepted the help of the UME – maybe you're telling us that this disinfection was done by private companies, that I also find it regrettable to have to spend public money from Catalans on hiring a private company because someone doesn't want to accept the help of the UME; I find it rather sad. But it is also that, after we disbursed that money from all Catalans in disinfecting those residences with money, I insist, public, he had to return the UME to disinfect what was already disinfected. That's how they did it. Is it that, honestly, you do not see the mismatch in all this management that you have made with the residences? I believe that the best lesson that this crisis has been able to give you is that no aid is rejected, wherever it comes from. No help is rejected, and less so when this help is to save lives. And I hope this choice has been learned, because it doesn't get in my head what ideology, what idea he rejects and fears of who offers him help to save lives. Neither do I get into my head, and I'm convinced that no Catalan gets into my head. There have also been other lessons, not only this that, I insist, I hope they have learned; also other lessons that have been given them the course of events. Mr Aragonès has left; it is a pity, because I think it is time to talk about budgets too, because he was committed, Mr Aragonès, to approving these out-of-date accounts as it were, huh? And these budgets, the budgets of this government, were calculated before the pandemic crisis and, therefore, obviously could not imagine or predict what could happen. Therefore, these budgets are the chronicle of a world that no longer exists, no matter how much you have endeavored to say that you serve and that you are going to revive them and I do not know what else you are going to do with these budgets. But, if the coronavirus has changed everything, how could it not also change the accounts to you? It was already a drawer thing, it was a common sense thing, but you didn't want to listen again. And I will tell you one thing: Catalonia needs a second budget, not a second referendum, Mr Torra, a second budget. Let us put ourselves once and for all to work on these new accounts, so that we can deal with these dreaded rebounds, and let us also spend the money, therefore, in this bottomless pit of the process. Look, we need enough personnel, preventative material in the residences so that no one will be unprotected. And, as I was telling you, this is very serious, and we are already seeing the experience in Segrià, in Lleida. Now is the time for management, and for management with transparency and responsibility. You have to guarantee the protection material among the 75,000 professionals working in the residences. They have to reorganize the resources that we now have for these outdated budgets, they have to reorganize and direct those to councils, therefore, which are key in this pandemic, such as the Health Council or the Labour and Social Affairs Council. You have to cut the superfluous costs that we all know: 900_million_euros that we could save ourselves if you cut administrative duplications, several parallel structures, plugged in, stratospheric salaries..., 900_million_euros that I am sure that Mrs Vergés would come to you stupendously for her advice, and to Mr El Homrani exactly the same, and not only to them, but to all Catalans. Do the favor of spending resources where they are needed most. And we have offered them that collaboration, we have offered them that help. I used to explain to them how we made our measures available to this government. So please don't do as with the UME, remember what I've told you: no hands are left when people's lives are at stake. Look, over the course of these months from Citizens we have been working in permanent contact with the organizations of the sector and we have presented these proposals to the Government to act urgently. There have been a lot of proposals that we have sent to you, offering our cooperation to start them up, as I explained before, for example, that we asked you to ask for the deployment of military medical personnel in the residences; we also called for rapid testing for the staff in these residences, or, for example, for hospitalization measures for the residents of the old age centres themselves, so that pressure could be eased in the hospital centres and that the risk of contagion to such a vulnerable population could also be reduced. These are measures that are shared by the sector, because no one better than the professionals who have been on the front line to know the problems and needs of the residences and no one better than them to help us guide those decisions that have to be addressed from the public. Wise, realistic proposals made since moderation, which we have found, however, have not been taken advantage of. But you know what? That we would do it again and we will continue to do it, because in a situation like this we politicians have to live up to it. And that doesn't mean that we don't have to be critical, it doesn't even mean that we give you that confidence that you ask for and that, however, you then break down with that mismanagement and those separatist wedges of yours that you insist on doing on press conferences. And it's not for them to be proud. But they won't even get Catalonia's first game to stop thinking about Catalans. And I ask you again today, Mr. Torra, because the other day I asked you but you didn't answer me: what would you be doing if the Government of the Generalitat were citizens and you were in opposition? Think and think. Look, we continue to reach out to all Catalans, and that means that we maintain our commitment to cooperation; but we also demand to know all the responsibilities of managing this crisis in residences, because I insist that the only way not to make the mistakes of the past is to do justice. At last week's reconstruction plenary, a contingency plan was adopted in this Parliament to deal with the setbacks we presented from my group, from Citizens, in which there was a specific battery of measures to protect the elderly. Our obligation is to care for those who need protection most, and under no circumstances do I insist, protecting governments, but protecting people. That is why, in addition to all the measures that we have already been putting before you over the past few weeks, we also want to push forward a contingency plan to deal with the rebounds in residences, which will surely be complementary to this plan that they also announced from the government. We want to ensure quality care for the inmates, and the necessary means for the workers as well. Emotional support and crisis management training programmes for professionals who have suffered so much. To ensure also that the relatives of the residents receive information; that no family ever tells us again that for fifteen days they had no information about their elders within those residences. And, of course – of course – that if we need the Military Emergency Unit or any other public agency to help us, to help us, not to be denied that help. Let yourself be advised, listen to good proposals for Catalans, even if they are not yours. Look, today we have the opportunity to act with justice and honor the memory of our victims, adopting measures that can save the lives of our elders in the face of those upheavals that we already unfortunately have in Catalonia. We owe everything – everything – to the elderly who are no longer among us but whose example can and must guide our political action. We owe it to all those of us who still have the fortune to keep at our side. Let us rise to your level and build a better Catalonia on your example and legacy. A Catalonia in which the life of citizens is first, and everything else is secondary. A Catalonia that can look the families of the victims in the eyes and pass the witness to future generations with a very calm conscience. If we don't unite for our elders and for the memory of the victims, then when? When are we going to do it? It is time to regain strength, unite and think with a cold head. The virus has apparently given us a truce these weeks. Let's take advantage of it. Because the rebounds, as I told them, are here. And what we do and what we say in this Parliament has a real and direct impact on people's lives. I hope in the future we can mark today in red and say that here it all began, this was the day when Catalonia changed the process for health, supremacy for equality and confrontation for union. He's not staying for us. Let's get going, because we owe it to our elders. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.18.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, very honourable presidents, councillors, we wanted to push this House forward with two main objectives: firstly, to examine what has happened, and secondly, to prepare ourselves for a possible resurgence of the pandemic in the residential area. But from the outset we can already be happy with the celebration of this Ple, among other things, because it served because yesterday the Government itself presented a contingency plan for the residents. We're already a little accustomed to this action-reaction, but if that means the opposition marks the government's agenda, then something must be doing right. And so thank you and you, to be prepared and to have a certain argumentary mount, have presented us this plan. I'll talk to you later. In your speeches, Mr President, I found myself lacking some self-criticism. It is true that the councillors have made some points of criticism, but I have the feeling that you have made an explanation of what happened to the country from the end. Because what we have found out about people and professionals from the residential area, but families too, is quite different from the management you have explained in this Parliament. From the outset I would like to make clear a competitive question for those who are interested in seeking responsibilities at home: neither command nor recentralisation, Order 275/2020 of the Ministry of Sanitat, point 3: "The competent authority of the autonomous community is empowered according to the epidemic and care situation of each residential center or specific territory, and always according to the principles of necessity and proportionality, to intervene the residential centers subject to this order. This same order extends the powers not only to the public centers, but also to the private centers, and places this capacity in the hands of the autonomous communities, and also the ability to carry out inspections that are deemed appropriate and to dictate the necessary dispositions and resolutions to complete what is specified in the orders. But it's that, beyond that order, you've always had exclusive skills in residences, always. Logically, too, those of salvation, but those of residences, always, are their exclusive competitions. Therefore, you have always had the skills and, therefore, you are the ones responsible for the management, for good or for bad, with the uncertainties and with the mistakes, of which you passed to Catalonia in the last few months. The impact of Covid-19 on residences has been widespread in Catalonia, Spain and Europe; this has been said and is quite true. By the way, it's been incised into different residential models. How about changing the model to Catalonia? Yes, but it has been incisored in countries with different care models. Therefore, they are two different debates. Half of Catalonia's residents have been severely affected by Covid, public and private; the virus does not understand legal forms either. The other half was able to avoid them thanks in the pocket of their management teams and their professional teams. While during the first days of the alarm decree they were looking for the resources needed to extend the beds of ICUs to the hospitals or strengthen the sanitary teams, the oblivion on the part of the government reached the residents of large people and people with disabilities, a sector that already in the month of fever warned the government of the generality of the consequences that the entrance of the virus could have to the residents and the residential sector in general. The ACRA employer and other employers in the country did so, who directly warned the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families of the risks that the Covid-19 would pose to the residents and which, in fact, claimed guidelines to deal with it. On March 5 the Ministry of Health sends to the Autonomous Communities..., not to go looking for Austria, France..., no, no: the Ministry, on March 5, sends to the Autonomous Communities a technical document carrying by title « Recommendations to residences of majors and health centres for the Covid-19. Among these recommendations – I remember, two days before the decree of the state of alarm – are found, for example, the suspension of family visits, the need for hydroalcoholic gels, gloves, disinfections of the spaces, reporting of the hardest cases of the health system or the silage of those residents who present difficult symptoms. Counselor El Homrani..., you therefore had enough warnings and skills to be able to act with a certain antelace, both for what the same sector said to you as for the ministry's indications. But it wasn't until a week after they made public the first recommendations, which were right on the line of the document recommended by the ministry. Then, with the alarm state decree of March 14th, it still closed. In fact, the residents of Catalonia closed on March 16. And here began a few weeks of complete disconcert, lack of clear guidelines and misinformation. You then announced territorial coordination circuits to resolve the incidents in a coordinated manner with the entities that manage the home care services, the assemblies, the local councils and, therefore, also the social services. A coordination that never existed or, at least, that professionals didn't notice. It was the management companies, the professionals of the service of home care, together with the assemblies and the municipal social services, that ensured the care of those people with dependence who needed it the most, self-organizing themselves, without directives from the Government of Catalonia. And they did it with certainty, for another band, because the mortality data are obviously more reduced to the home care service, for a question of concentration, too, it is obvious; but they did a lot of good self-organizing work and with the gathering of social entities and assemblies. It is clear that the initial weeks of the pandemic access to individual protection teams was very difficult, given the high international demand for these types of elements. In many cases it was the same residences that were sought for life to do with these elements, but not only with EPIs: there was a lack of tests of control, training, and there was no disorientation of the professionals, who worked without instructions and could not communicate, in many cases, with the same Government. An e-mail address: this is what they had to communicate the incidents and problems, and with a bit of luck – and it didn't always happen – they had an answer; but the normal thing was not to have a quick answer to these requests. The feeling, therefore, of abandonment, generalized..., and, lady counselor, I can respect what those professionals of residence told her, but the feeling of abandonment did not come so much for families or society, no, no: the feeling of abandonment of the professionals came on behalf of the Government. They felt abandoned for the government, with a council that was overtaken and with a sector that asked for help, without any protocol that you committed Salut at those times to act within the residences. I, when the government public uglies, or were not consensual with the sector or were impossible to realize or were contradictory, the result of this disorientation and the traditional incommunicado between the social and health sectors. While President Torra was taking advantage of the pandemic for his personal struggle against the central government and, why not, too, say so? , against his own government, is demanded the total confinement to Catalonia, total and absolute. But they allowed the departure of residents to their relatives' home; first, with Covid's proof, and then, a week later, Covid's proof was no longer needed. And I fully understand the reactions of the families before what happened to the residences; at the head and at the end, it was a logical consequence before their inaction: the families had for and considered that their relatives would not be well cared for in the residences. At a time when the citizenry needed certain, clear orders, security, the Government of Catalonia was moving all the contrary. It may be recalled that a few weeks before the pandemic the president of this same government said that his government was broken and that the legislature was exhausted and that, therefore, only a pandemic was needed to prove it. But without a doubt, one of the main failures of this government is to have refused to derive severe ills from hospital residences. Knowing that the pandemic was hitting the residents, you decided to consider the residents as second-hand citizens. It was easier to be derived from a hospital if you had symptoms at home than if you had them in a residence, he would advise. The Government of Catalonia was better able than the Government of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, governed by the People's Party and by Ciutadans. They were going to write in a protocol that couldn't get the people to the hospitals. Here, while the contagions and deaths for Covid are produced in the residencies, with a little luck are published recommendations – recommendations. There are residents who have died and who may have been transferred to hospitals. We understand that this move is not good for all residents, we understand it perfectly: the intervention that carries the fact that you can put a breather can complicate the state of health of the person who is moved; but not in all cases. The Vergés Councillor, forty days after the state of alarm, responded to me in parliamentary session in this very Parliament – on April 24 – that 1,800 residents had been transferred from the hospital residences. Okay. But at that time there were 9,535 positives and 18,372 cases suspicious of residences. Therefore, a very small percentage of the positivists were transferred to hospitals. And you will say to me: "Medic criteria. Okay. But sometimes it's not even just produced. Two examples. Research of the program Planta bajo, de TV3: public residence of Santa Coloma de Gramenet. Its director, Xavier Soley, each night sent an e-mail to the families to explain to them what the situation of the residence was. The first post he sent, on March 30 – I quote it literally – said: "The Department of Salvation has refused any consequence of the positive cases from the center to the healthcare network, they understand that they are attached to the residence. A week later, another communication, also from the same director of public residence: "From the direction of the centre we continue to believe that the temporal drift of some of the most affected users to the hospital centres would be necessary. The Department of Health rejects these derivations. 061 says no. Here no longer matters the medical criteria or the state of salvation; it is the criteria of which it is not derived from anyone. The same moved to residences in Maresme, to residences in Barcelona and to the territory. Counselor, who gave these orders? Did you want to know? So look into it, that's why she's the counselor. Because the residences were already under his jurisdiction. According to example: a family member of a Barcelona residence who has his father, of advanced age, with respiratory problems; gives positive in Covid. He asks the resident to transfer his father to the hospital. The resident says there's no referral to the hospital. Trick the father's mutual. In two hours, the ambulance goes to pick him up from the residence and takes him to the Sagrada Familia Hospital in Barcelona, where he is treated and, finally and fortunately, cured. Counselor, your government has denied health care to people because of the fact that they are big and living in residences. Derivative criteria were tightened according to the available ICUs and residents were left in a situation of unfair access to health resources. Because during the peak of the pandemic he did not offer alternative health care assistance to the residence, nor did he want to put out mountain country hospitals for the gatherings, and he refused to medicalize the residences, and decided not to transfer these residents to the beds of private sanitation, and more someone responsible for his department decided that, for the sole reason of being a great people and living in a residence, you could not access the health system in equal conditions. It's hard, it's very hard; but it's what happened. This government built an access wall to the public health system. You can't say today that all the residents who needed it were transferred to the hospital, they can't do it. And it's a real shame, for which you, as a minimum, should ask forgiveness and commit 'out here to look for those responsible and to put the solutions. Fixed, the derivatives of the residents to the hospitals were accelerated to April media, after, surely, the complaints girls for the managers, for the families, for the assemblies, for the communication media, also for parliamentary groups like ours, or because the prosecution opened more than a hundred divisions. I also want to refer to one of the most disconcerting episodes of this pandemic that puts in full inefficiency in management and coordination that does not exist on the part of the Government and the will to turn the pandemic into an opportunity for political conflict with the Government of the State, which is – and we all know this – of the few things that you know how to do. [[Widow's remorse.]] With what he was dealing with, Councilman Buch stated that the presence of the army was not necessary to combat the expansion of the coronavirus. "This does not depend on military strategies," he said. "How long will this disinfection last? What's the point of asking the Catalans to stay home if people come from other territories who may have the disease? This is brutal – it's brutal! From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units we want to give thanks to the UME, the Army of Land, Civil Protection and the Bombers of the Government of Catalonia, who showed more common sense and more compromise with society than their political leader of the Government. The reality fell by its own: weeks later, they no longer say no to the army – they no longer say no to the army. The government did not order until March 24, when the UME was already acting... Before Mrs. Roldan said: "We asked for it on the 23rd. The U.S.A. was already disinfecting cities with Badalona, Santa Coloma and others. Until March 24th, he did not have an action protocol for the disinfection of the residences. It was after the EU began disinfection tasks, that the Delegation of the Government to Catalonia informed the Process of successive requests for help by resident directors with very difficult situations, which Afers Socials then demanded to agree a protocol for a competition issue; protocol that was done twenty-four hours later. The petitions came to the Government Delegation, they are communicated to the Department of Social Affairs and the Government of Spain, the Generality on its part gives it or not the visa and transferred to the Ministry, when it considers it opportune, the request for the intervention of the UME. Two hundred and fifty gatherings and fifty-seven residences called for the intervention of the EMU; more than two hundred actions. The generality considered it opportune to hire a private company that did some actions... that, certainly, when you went into detail, you see that afterward the U.S.A. went, therefore, because that residence that had been disinfected was not happy with the result; but, well, it's the same. Others made them the bombers. In the city of Barcelona, the management of the bombers is of the Barcelona Assembly, among other things; in the rest of the territory, the bombers are the competence of the Generality. All right, welcome is all you need. They found residences where they did not allow the EMU to enter; referrals from the EMU to centres that had already been disinfected; negative actions on the net on the part of the Generality – negative actions on the net on the part of the Generality. The government wasn't the only one who went to a private company to disinfect the facilities: residents and NGOs paid for their butxaca disinfection, because the government said it couldn't pay for it. This is the case of Lleida – Republican Left. The mayor complained that the Generalitat refused to disinfect four residences, in one of which they died at those moments thirty people. Or the centre of minors, with thirty-four foster children with symptoms of Covid-19, who had to pay for his butxaca disinfection. It's exactly the same thing that happened with the organization, with the NGO Aspasim. If we have been able to control the pandemic it has been for the professionals of the residential sector, for its self-organisation. By the way, poorly paid professionals with precarious working conditions. They have directly affected the pandemic, two of them have been infected. Just over 940 euros gross per month, they cover geriatric assistants. You, in two years of government, have neither been able to substantially increase the modules nor the rate of professionals. Nor to bet for a public model of residence. The record that neither in the assumptions of the year 2017 nor in the assumptions approved this year 2020 between Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana and the gathering of the commons has dedicated neither a euro to the construction of a new public residence – nor a euro. In addition, benefits for non-professional caregivers have been reduced by €7 million. He told Councillor El Homrani in this same faristol, a few days ago, that the sphere of social protection was the small German of health or educational systems, and, indeed, he is right. But he escapes, Counselor, recognizing that with his management he has perpetuated this situation. They don't have a problem with tying 17_million euros to Ferrovial; they don't have to pay forty-three_million euros to private sanitation for each bed occupied, nor to privatize the medical care of residential services with macrocontracts. Certainly, on the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward, the Parliament urged them last week to reverse the privatisation of healthcare to residents. Left and Junts for Catalonia abstained. Even the PP voted in favour. And they won't, they know they won't. Nor does it strange us because of the respect his Government has for this Parliament: they repeatedly incomplete the motions and then, above all, complain that the opposition has reminded them. I told the beginning that I wanted to talk about things that we think have gone well. Catalonia was one of the first autonomous communities to account for infection and success in residents, and public deeds daily. It's true, and we want to congratulate them. There was a moment, I'm telling you, too, for sure, huh? When the Department of Social Affairs and Families recognized April 7th – April 7th! We've been carrying almost twenty days of state of alarm – which did not have a given head of two hundred residences in Catalonia, that is, of two of each other. It is very worrying that, in a world-wide pandemic situation and with a state of alarm decree, there is no information about two-hundred residences, two of each of your residences in our country. Maybe it's a symptom of the discontrol in the Department of Social Affairs and Families. But without any doubt, one of the best decisions was to pass the competitions and the management of residences from the realm of social to health. By the way, on April 8th – past this state of alarm of March 14th – the competitions, Mr President, are overtaken by a very uncertain decision. We already wanted it from the beginning. And it's also going to mean that we expect this to be temporary and that when this pandemic period passes, we'll return our skills to social and family afers. Now, what's not a waste is listening to Mr. The Homrani and Mrs. Vergés say that the two departments have worked from the beginning in a coordinated way. Because, first, if that's the case, the responsibility for inaction during the first month is shared. And second of all, because, if this co-ordination had existed, you didn't have to do the cross-competence. In fact, the Autonomous Community of Spain has done so. The disastrous management of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families was so obvious that President Torra did not neglect the occasion to announce that he had been the one who had taken the decision, while Councillor El Homrani, at the same time, in parliamentary committee in this Parliament, said that he had taken the decision before him. What can go wrong when two members of the government get confused with a pandemic? Certainly, counselor, not a single appearance in Parliament, beyond what was on the agenda of the parliamentary committee, not a single briefing to the parliamentary groups. He hasn't searched at the moment no agreement with another group. An e-mail at night, a press release, with the data... Yes, I would like to acknowledge that during the pandemic, whenever I phoned it to try to solve some of the situations that were given in a residence, some time together, you always posed and solved the problem. The management of the residential system by Salut improved the situation. Among other things that were done well, it was to merge the areas of salvation with the social areas. Health care improved; the flow of hospital care was increasing, but slowly it was increasing. Certainly, it didn't mean to pass the competitions to Health because this worked if they were coordinated. But it worked very well, among other things, because what the professionals were calling for is that the doctors were putting in residences, they were calling for help from the health care system. I also want to express that we are seeing with good eyes a good part of the measures that reverse the contingency plan presented yesterday for the government itself to protect the residents at a later date. Perhaps we would have wanted to change more structurally and in the long term, but in general terms the plan is fine. For another band, you propose to strengthen primary care with the equivalent of 450 health professionals. I would like to ask, Counselor, are the same 450 primary health professionals that you announced on June 14, to make us - in an idea. In any case, this means that you are less than a resident professional, and I understand, therefore, that you will concentrate these professionals, these teams, on some residents who have a greater incidence of Covid. But in general lines it seems to me that the plan is good. The reserve of 2,800 empty places for possible rebounds, contract up to 1,800 professional hierogulturists– sort to find them, eh? , because it will not be easy, with the working conditions offered, especially if it is through the social agreement – and 370 nurses to strengthen the health care of centres of more than sixty places. Will they be contracted by the government or the company to which you have contracted healthcare? This is the doubt; that, I remember, last week Parliament urged them to reverse it. But what lessons can we learn from what has happened? I think many, but the important ones in fact we already knew before the pandemic. They have been extensively debated and demanded by the sector, and consistently rejected by the government. Our current residential system will not serve us to meet the demand for our own two years, and we all know that and we have all repeated it here. And now a pandemic has to come to start talking about the model. Under our point of view, we need to reform the Catalan care model, leading to an effective integration of social and health areas. People who want to be able to marry at home until their state of salvation or autonomy makes institutionalization inevitable. We will need to modernise and increase home care services, tech the streets and add the services that are also offered from the joints. A model in the social and health field does not work for a minute longer. Warm up more social professionals to Health and more social professionals to Health. They are friendly residents, equipped with a basic sanitary equipment, to make the public health network present to the residents twenty-four hours, in medium, friendly, clean and open equipment to the community, not only to attend to the possible resurgence of the Covid; in a systematic way, forever more. By the way, they're talking more about creating an agency to look after people. In principle it is fine, but I don't know if you remember that in this Parliament the year 2017 was approved by the Catalan Agency of Social Services. I'm just saying, why don't you... don't you need this one anymore? Is that it? It's from the year 2017, which you approved, huh? I'm saying this because maybe we can grab some elements that we already have that could work for us. In short, this is the very brief summary of our future model, which you all saw expanded in the resolution proposals. Certainly, Mr. El Homrani, you have created a group of experts, and it seems good to us, but there is a lack of primary education, there is a lack of the disability sector. I think it is wrong if this group of experts is not extended to areas that are absolutely necessary for a future model. But the new model, deputies and deputies, will cheat years. And now we offer you some actions that are of your competence and that need to be applied, under our point of view, immediately. It urgently expands the modules and the ratio of residences in a 15_per_cent and improves the working conditions of professionals. Please stop freezing the welfare of our great people. Two. Resuming the valuations of the degree of dependence on the entire Catalan territory, which is not being done. Requires two-thousand new services linked to residence. Perhaps not now to enter, but we will need them at the moment this pandemic is over, because the residences must be able to open and because the fact, the situation we have now will generate an increase in the waiting lists. Set up a first-rate alarm system. Expand economic gratification to other professionals in the social sector. Don't you want the social sector to stop being the little German? Come on, let's go. Renew the inspection method at the residential centers. In addition to measuring the width of the door, you should try to inspect the quality of the service. Establish a protocol that improves the information that family members have about the state of health of their residents, the great oblivions of this pandemic and unable to decide on the immediate future of their family members. Paying outstanding debts with third-sector entities, who have donated their faces during this pandemic and who cheat with payments that do not arrive in time or in shape. A week ago you told them you couldn't pay them, neither in time nor form. They are entities that have debts, some, of the year 2019, but some have put money from their butxaca, all that it is to disinfect, and they still have to wait for these subsidies to arrive. Open immediately all the social welfare offices of Catalonia. Some of them are shut down. But in cities as important as Sabadell, for example. Why don't social welfare offices start at the start of the social crisis and people also have access to social benefits and social protection? And modify the premise to build a thousand nine places of public residence of direct management of the Generalitat. Remember, gentlemen of the Republican Left, what is a public square of residence? So they haven't fanned one of them in years. And I'm done. These are some of the many proposals we will make in the next few hours. We are at the end of a parliamentary term and a few weeks after a new election call. Everyone knows, but no one can say. I don't say it; in fact, you say it yourself. Mr President, your government will take over this legislature with a suspension in social policy. Not a law for the social sector proposed for the government and approved in this Parliament; those who have approved have been proposed for opposition. No new competition. No new effective policy to combat inequality in our country. The management of the residences has been a clear example of how this government flushes the roads for its incompetence to effectively manage the real problems of the great people of our country, who have struggled to get some rights that, in a moment of pandemic, have been denied to some lshan. We appreciate the plans, in many, of plans, in this legislature; few of them have been implemented. What makes reference to residences is urgent, but up late. And the upcoming election call will blow up parliamentary commitments, political referents, agreements in place. Once again, Catalonia has not advanced for years, exactly the same as the Catalan right, with its multiple logos, and the so-called "Republican Left" governs together. Deep changes are taking place in Catalonia, and after all these years, we've seen and know that they won't come from the hands of this government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Deputy Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.20.0	"Our society owes a great deal of debt to the elderly who have died. We can't recover them, but we can dignify their death. These deaths cannot be left in a broken bag, they must serve us to make self-criticism and improve. Let's look at what happened in the residences as a lesson, let's investigate, study, and don't let this happen again. They are the words of Angel Juárez; he lost his mother in a residence during the crisis of the coronavirus in Catalonia, and he created and is the spokesman of the Platform Affected Coronavirus. I think it sums up very well why we do this Plea. It is a specific plethora to speak calmly, but to speak plainly: to assess what has happened; to understand why this situation viscuous to the residents, especially those of large people; to understand why 4,100 people died in less than five months, more than 15,000 positives confirmed from a population of 64,100 large people living in public and private residences in our country; to understand why the hard affectation also in the workers of this sector – in fact is the community, that of the residents, with the index of larger contagions and with an index of enormous lethality of the coronavirus. And we have to get these lessons, because they have to, to begin with, to which they have suffered. The tragedy of what happened to the residences has a cause, and we don't have to lose sight of it: it's a virus. I say that because sometimes we don't seem to have it. The cause has been a virus: the coronavirus. But there are important basic elements that have served as an accelerator for the effect of the virus on residences. One, of course, is that there was a concentration of people especially vulnerable to this virus in the residencies, and that's what happened all over the world, and that's why the affectation all over the world in the residencies. But there were also space people prepared to face circumstances of crisis. The residency model has been an accelerator of the effect of the virus on the residences, and it has also been managed by the government, especially at the initial moments, the key moments when the virus entered the residences and the root of the healthcare management of the virus in the residences. With regard to the virus element or the virus factor, we will have to rely on science: on cows, on treatments... But respect others we can do things to them. They have been caused by determined policies, accumulated for many years, and they are determined policies that can vary these factors. We can vary the model, we can vary the type of residences, we can vary the accumulation or concentration of large people also in the residences, and we can vary as the government has tools and ability to see what is going on to the residences, to manage crises and to manage with the hope of public service these residences. We are obliged and obliged to predict, to assess who are the policies that have caused these factors and to predict who are to be changed. If it is not done, or out of unwillingness or desirousness, then the next move to the residences will have determined political responsibility. And things are so clear. I hope, therefore, that from this Ple there will be concrete proposals. I hope to complete them later and execute them, as the counselor said... Certainly, it is you who have to execute them from the government. In our opinion, we need to rethink the model of residences, the care of people with great dependence, the quality of the services and the ability to cope with various actions or situations. And we can review and rethink the government's lack of ability to see and predict what was happening to people paid with public money. The inability to give a quick response to the needy imperatives that there has been has been evident. The responsibility, which was initially of the Department of Work and Social Affairs, and after Health, but which at all times has been solidly of the whole government, must be assumed. A government that has at all times had full competitions respect the residences and that has not managed this crisis well in the residences. If they don't detect this, if they haven't detected this in the country's parent, from resident managers, from people to residents during these weeks, it's that we don't live in the same world. To make this review, to disengage all these political decisions accumulated over the years and to be able to correct and understand with humility and self-criticism those that I need to do, it is for which I make this intervention, or it is the object of my intervention. And we must start, obviously, as we say, by self-criticism, also for those things that now correspond to us. It'll be nice to play the Dependency Law. Dependency law was a revolution in place when it was approved. Recognising a right subject to the service of healing for those people who need to support a worthy life project was a key point in the recognition of rights of citizenship and rights of dignity, but it has never just been deployed well, and it has never just been deployed at all, for lack of sufficient funding guaranteed from an initial, for girls' retailing after, from 2011, by the State with governments of the People's Party, by the Generality with convergent governments, by retailing in its application with various regulatory changes also by those governments that applied neoliberal policies. We need to review the law, we need to update it, we need to improve it, and we need to make a more flexible system, more adapted to each person's needs and with sufficient resources, and that means a great increase in resources for dependency. The change and improvement of the law and regulations now takes place on our people, on our political group, on our shared responsibility, obviously, with socialists in the government of the State. We don't deny it or ignore it, and that's where we are. But there is an increase in resources enough to be able to deploy the Law of Dependence, the right of dependence, personal autonomy and the best that needs to be done, requires general assumptions to the State. Unfortunately, we have had to be in this crisis..., managed with general assumptions of the State extended still from the time of the People's Party. We could have been with assumptions approved last year that would have increased resources by 60 percent, the investment in dependency. They didn't approve because Republican Left didn't want to. So let's put it all in. We need to change the law; we'll put ourselves in it. We're supposed to. We're getting support for assumptions that increase resources in a very brave way by dependence on the State. Catalonia's been talking for years, too, isn't it? , model and regulation, that we hear about a law of personal autonomy own. No more powerpoint – no more powerpoint. He's never seen the light before. Do you want to do it or don't you want to do it? And we no longer aspire to a law of personal autonomy in Catalonia, but it would have been good to know, wouldn't it? , if all this reflection that brought us the situation of the coronavirus leads them to set themselves also better standards at the catal level, and of the deployment of self-government capabilities. We have been collecting once and for years in this Parliament, from resolutions, motions, possible and viable improvements in the management of aid to personal autonomy and dependence and in the dignity of professionals and professionals in the sector. They're approved; they're not complete, counselor. They are not complete because you have not completed them. Five years ago you managed this department of the Government of the Generality. It must be put down, child; it must be improved all the better, and it must be increased the presuppositional endowment in order to be able to do so. In Catalonia we pressed because there were presupposed increases in dependency issues. In the presuppositions of 2020 it will be necessary to increase them even more, and to increase the presuppositions to the State. Dependency, normal set of assumptions. Another of the key elements that we need to analyze. There's a business model for managing these services. It turned that way and it grew that way, it grew even more over the last few years. In Catalonia, as has been said, more than 64,000 large dependent people live in a thousand residences: more than half of the places are in private centres run by commercial enterprises with a leisure life; 14,000, roughly, are in social entity centres; only one of each of these places is public, and only a small part of these are directly managed. This does not happen to salvation, that we have the most confused and confused system of the "world world, and, obviously, neither to education. Social servants have always been misled, social matters have always been less likely, but, moreover, they have voluntarily managed to give business to those who want to do business, even more so than the other pillars of the welfare state. Nor have you, councillors, taken this into account in these five years of government management. The mercantilizing trend has accentuated in a brutal form from the policies determined from the exit of the previous economic crisis, neoliberal policies, convergence and union governments, but it has not gone into the past few years, as the goddess said. We have, after all, reversal funds in charge of the care of people in Catalonia to residents. This trade in this sector has been accentuated by determined policies, in this case of the Republican Left, with the assumptions of the Republican Left, to reduce to zero the game of construction of public residences, while we still wrap ourselves up more, grows the population that needs residential places and come the great goods to build large residences, each time larger, with which they will have to arrange the places because the needs to run out, and hardly, the list of hope of dependence. We'll figure that out. It is not with frozen tariffs for two years, obviously, that in this we have already put ourselves, counselor, in which it is unfreezing in the tariffs, because the only one that makes it easier for those who want and can manage you to serve of dependence and residence follow those who only look for the trade and who do not have..., do not fall..., do not release them, let us say, do not fall the rings to lower even the working conditions of the people who work or the qualities of the services they are giving. Do we get it or don't we get it? Because this has led to this health crisis of the coronavirus having to be managed in some homes with staff deficits, attention deficits, scarcity of sub-administrations of material, precarious work situation... All this is the result of certain policies determined by governments, certain assumptions of governments and a willingness to market. There are now data center by center of Covid's affection in Catalonia in an article by Infoliber. About half of the centres there was no death; about half of the residents of Catalonia there was no death. About 40_percent of victims have concentrated in 5_percent of residences. What kind of centers are they? What kind of management? It's not public management. But they are big, big centers, especially very big centers. And a good part of this concentration, of the 13_per_cent, of the mortal victims, in those of the four great mercantile groups that have centers in Catalonia. Let's look at the data; let's bring lessons; let's understand the situation. They can't go on like this, and we can't go on changing from now on. The model change is not done immediately, but let's either start already or never do. So, to begin with, I apply the assumptions immediately, the agreements that we made with us to increase working conditions from the increments of the concerts, and I'm already doing the concert law to get the goods out of this sector. Another issue we need to talk about: healthcare for residents; another consequence, in fact, of the commercialization of this sector. At a certain point, the public health system excluded health care from our great people, and decided that they were no longer citizens who have a right to health care in our public system. It was outsourced and the consequences were brutal, brutal for years and brutal also during the pandemic. These private mutuals who took care of healthcare in good part of the residents of Catalonia disappeared on the first day of coronavirus. Therefore, we have had determined mutuals, especially Mutuam, which handles 431 of the thousand residents of Catalonia, their health care, disappeared, negotiating for years at our residences, without guaranteeing adequate health care. I recommend that you read articles that have been published in recent times in which there were anonymous witnesses of people who worked in Mutuam on how health care for residents in our country worked. Our public health system had neither ears nor eyes in which it was passing in the centers; it had given up holding them. The coronavirus has arrived and the consequences have been of carelessness. You can't go on like this. Can't go back to the past. Therefore, recall these externalizations of health care on these residential care teams of private mutuals and guarantee care to everyone from the primary care teams, and not from our ad hoc service bulletins; from people integrated into primary care teams to all the territories that may be providing health care to residents. Another topic we have to talk about: the residential model. Mercantilization, as I said, has also had every time bigger centers, less centered on the person. We are no longer part of a good model, from the very beginning, it has to be recognized, but each time it has become more perverted, as it has been more mercantile, with more macro-centres of care fordism, in that the hours of life have nothing to do with the vital needs of the people who are there, but with how to manage the little staff you have with sufficient efficiency to give the minimum of services needed to the people you have as a resident. This has nothing to do with people. Res. We want centers that prioritize cure and customize cure. It is not our invention that we plant and plant in our proposals in this House. We want centres from cohabitation units in which people who work are integrated and integrated into cohabitation units and adapt to their wishes, when they want to, in their opinion, and the needs of people who live and live there. This already exists in other countries, exists in other communities and is intended to exist in Catalonia as well, but we need to recognize them and push them politically. This requires resources, it requires regulation, it requires volunteers, and that can also be done now. There are already assemblies trying to push centers of this type, there are associations pushing centers or running centers of this type in Catalonia. Let's visualize them, push them, make them grow; lay down the presupposition. Another element that we can assess – and I ended up with this –: the mismanagement of the crisis on the part of the Government. I said before: there were no real eyes or information system or effect of what goes on in the residences; there were no effective orders, no territorial system, councillor. That's the only way you can understand that there's no prior information, right? , of what happens, that occurred during the crisis of the coronavirus drawings of residences that were neither recorded nor monitored by the system, everywhere. This is the only reason why, one_me after the pandemic iniciator, when competitions pass to Salut, there are drawings of residences of which no information is kept from the department. This is the only reason why in many cases the assemblies, mayors and mayors, who were alerting the Government of what was passing to the residents of their municipalities, had to be. I could also make him a chronograph day by day, counselor, of that fatal fortnight, second fortnight in March, about how every day he had tricks from mayors, mayors, people, governors, directors, relatives, tell us what was going on in residences and asking us to do something. Look, I'm very friendly and very nice on the phone, and in person; people appreciate me very much, but people don't call an opposition deputy to ask for help – help – urgently if it's not because they've already tried it with the government and they haven't answered or felt abandoned. I thought, those days, "If all these people are calling me, however much I feel and appreciate me very much and be very nice, how many more people are not feeling abandoned in the residents of all of Catalonia and in the assemblies of all of Catalonia trying to respond to situations that required urgency and agility? Certainly, the department responded when we called them, but it wasn't that – it wasn't that. How many of these cases we didn't even manage that there was the U.S.A., after despair, hours and days or days and days without the company contracted for the government or without the government activated the U.S.A.. We have certainly done so many of the Members and Members that we are in this House today. It was weeks when we did a lot of quiet work behind all the folds; I'm sure the government, very much, but we weren't effective. There was a lack of protection material, but it is not understood that there was no perspective, from Salut, that in the residences there was a concentration of people especially vulnerable and that it was a priority in the material that is dyed. Co-ordination, or supposed co-ordination, that did exist between Afers Socials and Salut, where were those weeks, until the principles of April, when they began to distribute PPE material to the residents? Because Salut wasn't going to his centers anymore. I'm not saying I don't go to health centers, but how is it that health care doesn't prioritise residences either? How could there be protocols, orders from the department, saying that the material that reached them to the residences was only in case there were any positive cases? That's when I did weeks ago that people were confined to the house and we went out to launch the rubble with masks. How could it be that, in residences, with vulnerable people, they said that masks and gloves were in case there was a positive case, only? They don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't understand, they don't What was Hail, what criteria of Hail were applied in those weeks, if they really were so coordinated? Why did Salut cheat so much to act and get into the center? You weren't aware that they didn't have eyes in the residences? You were not aware that the public health system had excluded people from health care in the past few years and that you were not there and did not know what was going on? It was weeks ago, he said, he would advise, that you were at the same time laying out bell hospitals, we read in the ICUs, taking personal from where we could... We understand – we understand. But it cannot be told to the citizenry that there was no such prediction that the residences required the same effort, as at least, that had been made in the health care system. Look, it can't be said in any other way that the management that they've done as the pandemic government to the residents has been painful. There are no possible options for this adjective. We are convinced that he was not by bad will, but probably by incapacity. And that can't be repeated again. And it can't be repeated again, not later, no, today, tomorrow. We're already with coronavirus buds; we're already with coronavirus buds and there's no time to lose. Therefore, we like the music of what they have announced as ruling just at the gates of this Ple, of reinforcements in primary care, of reinforcements in personnel to residences, of the various ideas that they have explained, but they have not said calendars. They made announcements and didn't say calendars. And there is no timetable: it's now that reinforcements are brought to primary attention, it's now that it's more personal to the residences, it's now that we have the guarantee of the materials to the residences, the information systems, it's already, we're already confining communities of Catalonia, and we hope – we hope – that it won't be in more places, but reality will probably overcome fiction. Well, we would ask all the pleas from this plenary to come out with all these approved things, proposals from the immediate, proposals from the model changes, proposals from all the important things, and which is then complete, as the counselor said. By the way, counselor, we've had a little bit of a will, his intervention. I would not, however, want to end without making a brief reference to people with disabilities and to the residents, too, of people with mental health disorders. All the same circumstances, especially the same measures, that have applied to the residents of large dependent people – but the incidence of the virus, by luck, has been much more severe in these residential centers– have required a different and specific look. We think it's hard, in the middle of a crisis like this, right? , to be able to have all these diversity and specific looks, but for today, tomorrow, tomorrow passed, for now, maybe we could already integrate it. We look differently from residential centers of people with disabilities and people with mental health disorders. We do not forget them, nor the coordination nor their need to reverse the freezing of two years of tariffs..., nor of resources, nor of working conditions, nor of increased capacity to deal with crises, but also of their needs differentiated from people and citizens and citizens with rights that are not the same as those of the great people with premeditated diseases and dependence on the affect of this virus. Therefore, we also refer to these petitions that the sector asks of us. We don't forget about them and them. I'm done. The best honor we could do to the victims of the residences and their families is to bring lessons and apply them. The best applause, surely, that we could give, or recognize, to the women, above all, mostly, who work in this sector is that these measures are implemented with speed and efficiency. For us the main lesson is that the problem is structural, that structural measures are called for, that a new model, a redesign of the system of cures is needed, and that it must be a model with resources and management that guarantees the quality of care and dignity of professional figures, a model that adapts to what each person depends on and wants; a system that guarantees a right to a decent life, right that all lives can be worthy: those of people who are in residence and those of people who work in residence. Dignity. This is a big country reversal – and I'm talking about "inversion, not "expenditure. It is a great reversal that we have to do with the country, which requires resources, efforts, wills, but resources. Investment in rights and dignity. With enormous potential for social transformation, both for which it can generate benefits in citizens' rights from these services, as for which it can be generated for the people who work there and for their families, as for which it can be generated from a quality line of occupation if we go to make a service with dignity. Social transformation that calls us, more than ever, in an era of reconstruction as it sees us before. We believe that this reconstruction is essential and that reconstruction with this new perspective of social change and transformation and of great opportunity, in the case of residences and care for dependent people, must be part of this new social contract that we need in this country and should, of course, be a priority of a future left-wing government that can open a new stage in Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, the words of Mr. Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.22.0	We wouldn't want to forget for a moment why we're having this monogrample today. We have said this in the first of our interventions: we are talking about four thousand dead people and their human suffering, in them, in the process of losing their lives, and their families, their loved ones and their loved ones. And all the recognition for the workers and the workers in the sector, who in some conditions have to be characterized as unbearable, so they gave everything they could and more, and they continue to do so. We do not do so in Parliament, in this Parliament, if we do not have the capacity to pass regulations, which is complete, which can end what has been this suffering. A little evolved will be our society and socially we don't have that capacity. It's possible that now there are those who think that this can't be applied to a reality as it became derived from the Covid-19. We don't want to take on this story. We cannot – and let us say this in plural – deceive or assume deceptions. The elements that have caused the crisis of residences are predicted by the Covid-19. What is different is that the effects of Covid-19 have been absolutely conditioned in relation to the magnitude of the tragedy. Absolutely – absolutely. We won't deny it. Look, we can devote our intervention to looking for all the contradictions, all the supposed mistakes, all the elements that we think have not been perfected by this government, but we have decided to do another type of intervention, which is to try to go to those elements that determine our country's residences as an absolutely failed model. This will not mean that... in the final part of our intervention we will also make references, especially in the form of a question, to some of the questions that we think need to be clarified about management in the four months from March until the last weeks, so as not to talk about the last days. For us who are the elements that absolutely condition the model? First: the historical bet for a model where private and private management residencies with payment of seats for the Administration are the majority, and ownership and public management residencies – and we want to insist on this issue, because everyone is clear about what we are talking about – they are a minority. For four decades the government has had an active policy of developing public ownership and public management residences. As many as we've had, and even so much as the Spanish government when they still had the competition. This was united with another fundamental idea, which is how the model was built. And the model is: private with concert and convenient and payment of economic performance linked to the service..., which manages a reality for which publics are managed mostly by private companies and privates are financed – not all, good part of them – with the ranks of all Catalans and all Catalans. And in the context of the crisis of the last decade, the funds of reversal appear. They appear in such a way that we have eleven businesses, that in our country they mean 15_percent of the residences – we are talking now, concretely, of great people –; more than one hundred_five hundred residences. And, look, let's not be fooled: the investment funds only come to one thing, which is to get business benefits, they come to nothing else, that no one wants to fool us. And this, in this sector, is only done through two procedures: either to scan the working conditions of workers and workers, or to "fail the conditions of users and users. There's no magic. Certainly, also in this model for which he was betting is to privatize healthcare by expelling thousands of Catalans and Catalans from their right to public health. And we have to say with this exact clarity. And, besides, where there is a company that is the main one in the private management of this sanitation that should be public, that is Mutuam, that we find – and we want to denounce it in this Faristol – directed by two high offices of a previous government of Convergence and Union. Set yourself, two high offices: a former Director General of Health and a Deputy Director of the Català Health Service. For a company that last year paid them for 22,5_million euros. And, therefore, what it means: that maximum holders of Catalan public health leave to private health care management and that at the same time they 'isdonen, on the part of the Catalan public administration, contracts of this size to manage our health care in a private way, expelling thousands of Catalans and Catalans. Look, these days it would seem that no one wants to recognize in Convergence and Union. We respect that. Neither those who can have a political origin nor those who come to occupy their space. But there's one other thing that worries us more: that it's when some and some people keep the same practices as push, because if today's day this is kept and it's where the push was established, it's because there's someone who isn't changing. And obviously we want to end everything that means pujolism, paternalism, neoliberalism and autonomy; we are for the process of building the republic, and obviously this is the denial of this absolute expression. The second element: the conditions of work, workers and workers; a sector to which, again, eternal graces, because, all that they have endured, for most of us here, would surely be unbearable, with respect to what we are here. But we have to say this with this strength. But what is its reality? Under bases that may not reach the 997_gross euros – therefore, a few eight hundred_euros per month net, working forty hours –, part-time days, part-time contracts, workloads over technical criteria and rates, which we could determine from here, from geriatrician to resident who do the work in the day-to-day practically unbearable. Certainly, beyond what the appropriate collectives say, when we speak or when we speak also of the basic or the self, of the salaries of the workers and the workers, what we should remember is that here, in his parliamentary office, in the processing of the Law of Presuppositions, there was a theme, the 1170, to the Law of Presuppositions, where the CUP - Cree are already proposed: all the workers and the subcontracted and subcontracted workers, of ownership of the Generalitat de Catalunya the public services, guaranteed wages of 1,200_euros. Of the remaining groups, he voted in favour; only one group abstained and the rest voted against. And, therefore, we should also be cautious about this. He said: "I have no words to thank... I have no words to thank you... I have no words to say to you, Counselor, that we are more concerned about you than I have no words to say– we have understood what the phrase means, obviously, with all respect for you; we are concerned that you do not have legal and political tools to recognize the right of the workers and the workers, because there is not enough of the applause of the institutional policy, of saying that they are barely, "that we can cover when in this Parliament we can decide perfectly to change their remunerations. Third element: economic under-doing by the Administration. The spokespersons and the spokespersons in the Labour Commission would remember how, not even six months ago, employers together with the two most representative unions would come to explain to us that with the assumptions that there were, at that time in project mode, the sector was in the crisis and was provoked..., with a general failure. That's what they're telling us. Gender and February 2020. We do not admit that we are not for indirect and private management, but what seems to us is that while it is being kept private management we obviously have to presuppositionally equip it so that we cannot have a sector that tells us that it is permanently engaged in the crisis; to the crisis in the sense of what the service means. And now you call our attention and we are absolutely in agreement that you, Government, can give 15_million more to this sector, but you call our attention so that in this very Ple tourists will freeze a fee, to tourism; they vote against making more to pay to those who charge more than 60_million euros, and even in this same Ple also lower the tax pressure. What are we gonna do with these buggers? Because if we have a reality of fewer tickets and you – and we agree – increase these into 15_million euros, what we have to say is where they come from. Because, if not, we seem to be cheating. Fourth element: the lack of sufficient inspections and the way to inspect. One of the reasons for which this candidacy – not the only one – does not assume private management is because it is practically impossible to control effectively, practically impossible. But if it were possible, of the legal tools and mechanisms that we have today, it would seem that it is not possible. They have some examples. We were told in this Parliament, in the committee, one of the entities – Coordinator 5+1 –, which tells us about the reality of the centres: re-use of bowlers, distribution of cold or insufficient feet, insufficient health care... But, look, we're not just stuck with what an entity tells us – that for us it's enough, for his trajectory – but what he did or didn't do to this government. Any 2018. His official data, to questions from deputies and deputies. How many sanctioning procedures were carried out? Nine-five. And in reality, five-north – and we have to explain everything – because before we go to the resorts, we'll do the phone trick to say they're going. This is the way inspections of these centers are done. I'll do the trick and say the day and time I go. Ninety-five sanction procedures. Four archives. With fine, only – with penalty – eighty-nine. One with a lock on it. With a lot and a lot, zero. With lockdown and disablement, zero; zero lockdowns and disablement. So, mirin, about your own data, what are we talking about? We are talking about failing to meet the health conditions, 15_per_cent; irregularities in the administration of medication, 15_per_cent; not ensuring direct attention and non-compliance with qualification regulations, 9_per_cent; not serving foods in insufficient quantity, 6_per_cent; not meeting hygiene conditions, 6_per_cent; irregularity in containment measures, 5_per_cent; not maintaining the establishment in hygiene and health conditions, 5_per_cent. With these realities, you, government, do not incapacitate. With these realities. And, therefore, the speech that they are moving to a part of the sector, which is what is incomplete, is: nothing passes to fail, because you will not be disabled for the next contest. And many times they don't even need the next one. We've had some of the companies that haven't had or needed the next one. Actuation has started and then it is not disabled. Certainly, these same actions, for any worker or worker, what they would mean would be a welcome proceeding and certainly a criminal proceeding. That's right, you guys with businesses are weak, very low. And, therefore, realize a context in which it would seem that everything can be done. All this, what we have explained so far is purely descriptive – little interpretation, indeed; most are data from the Enterprise Department – but we think that there are elements that go beyond the description and that today we have not yet had an answer. Look, we could come to a consensus. Lack of self-protection material and PPE, great rotation of staff, lack of sufficient staff – that are two different questions–, indicating many times contradictions... This has happened. I think it was good that we fessin – or fessin – recognition. Characteristic and even constructive; we talk about architects of the same centers that make it difficult to give answers – a reality that also works. All this in the end what they have converted has been this reality of residences as the major focus of infection and condemns to death four_ thousand people. Also – and as in the past – the great spark of this chaos: the lack of coordination with the local world. We have an example for you: Medium. They expressly demanded that a centre intervene. They also said: "We, as a whole, are prepared, effectively, to manage it. But reality has been no answer. And this is the problem, one of the problems of the health crisis: the lack of answers. We're asking him a few questions now. Whose responsibility is it for the lack of PPE? Is that who he runs? Is that before the Department of Work, now the Department of Health? Do you want to tell us? Who has the obligation, therefore, to provide these PPEs? We would also need to know if someone at the Department of Work paralyzed him from buying personal protective equipment. Or even if from the Spanish government it was guaranteed that there were individual protection equipment. Did you sign off on a date? And whether it was completed or not it was completed. And, if it failed, we want to have the answer. Counselor El Homrani, you said: "He decided that he lost more than one day. We want, now, in this plenary, in this session, an answer with the name and surnames of the political leader of the Spanish Government who lost two days. This town deserves to know this reality. Names and surnames of the head of the Spanish government who lost us two days. Because this lack of purchase are human lives. And, therefore, this people needs to know if there is anyone responsible for the Spanish Government who at some point has caused us this loss of human lives. And let's put it that way. Otherwise, we won't be able to go with an exercise as well as being able to give answers in its globality. And also that someone explained to us – and he said it before some other deputy – why Mutuam was missing. We're discussing whether or not there was healthcare, when there's a first responder to the missing centers. And we're not asking for explanations. And, therefore, here, in your parliamentary office we also ask, counsel, that you can tell us whether Mutuam has acted or simply disappeared. And lastly, also if there has been any company – of which they have more purchasing capacity, certainly, than the Catalan government – that has made a pulse to the Catalan government in managing [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of private residences. Look, time is running out; we cannot explain our proposals today, but no doubt we will have proposals for the short term, for the long term, for the medium term, and above all, for the model change. It is absolutely incompatible with us what is the business benefit with dignity and with the care of people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. Ara, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word "Mrs. Esperanza García".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.24.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, we have lost to Spain twenty-thousand great people because of the coronavirus. In Catalonia, 73_percent of the great people we have lost, we have lost them in the residences, and I think that precisely because of this, because behind the figures at the end there are people, there are families completely torn apart by the pain of the loss, of a kind that did not produce; for a total sensation of feeling hurt and silence, in solitude and with an absolute sense of oblivion, they deserve a debate, a debate, an analysis and a proposal for improvement. And I think the object of this debate and the committee that we have set up this morning is to look for this, let's resolve it. Because at the end of the day we've been warned, we've been left with peers, uncles, children of a generation who were born in the middle of a civil war, who endured a post-war, who have suffered systemic crises and some repeated, who with their efforts and work have managed that Catalonia, and Spain, in general, is a magnificent place to live. And you owe them everything. And that's why when they've come to a residence, in the end, to try to live with a certain serenity the last moments of their life, sometimes even the hardest, we have to put a thread to the needle of what's happened to the residences, right? Among other things, because in these last moments of life they have not only been accompanied, before the crisis of the coronavirus, by their family, but they have created a new one, that it is the people who work there, in these centers: the geriatrics, the clinic assistants, the psychologists, the physiotherapists, the staff and even the maintenance, also, are part of this new family, and the social workers. And many of them carry many years centered on their efforts to help and to make this lifetime of these people as pleasant as possible. Actually, it's your opinion. And one of the things that has shown us this health crisis is the great human quality, the human quality that these professionals have, that even have confined themselves to the centers, instead of their families, to be on the side and to accompany their opinions – they say their opinions, right? Ours, in the end, our opinions. And what they're doing and what they've done is a job they deserve to be recognized, because we've heard according to what they say, what they say is according to what they do, according to what centers they work. And I think it must be recognized and appreciated and served by the institutions to give this sincere grace, as well as by the disinfection pockets that the U.S. made, and also by the Bombers, that were incorporated a little later. And also the CAP staff, who went in and the centers to diagnose the residents, among other things because they went in and took a long time asking to do so and help and give a hand to ease the situations that were being given in these centers. At the end of our great, their families, they owe us. And we must also, not just as society but as politicians, try to analyze and pose media and try to prevent it from happening again to what the BBC has wrongly held: "They will die alone and in silence. I can do it. What does it require? Honesty, the counselor said. I agree. Now I'll talk about things that hinder this honesty. It requires a serious debate, an adult debate, telling the truth – with this we can agree – sober and rigorous, where the reflections have not remained close to guilty sometimes hundreds of kilometers away from the councils where they require responsibility, and also have ideological debates that are more likely to be political science, but that do not bring solutions to those families that are used by residential centres and people with disabilities. Look, honesty begins with not saying a repeated fallacy, but not for the sake of repeating it will be true, that the Law of Dependence does not make the State in Catalonia send the necessary money to help people and families who have dependent on them. It's not true. You know that. They know how to read, they know the laws, and they know the last report of the Court of Auditors with respect. There are two parties, two parties to finance dependence: one which is direct and which is finalist, which is what you always are, and another which is not direct and which is due to the financing system above – it is not here – to the Councillor of Economy. And that's it. If the Economy Advisor doesn't get them there, claim it, claim it, please, but they obviously have these resources at their disposal and are approximately 51_percent of the total dependency aid. We can talk about it, if that's enough, it's not enough, if we can improve them, okay, but let's not start a debate supposedly honest, it will be, with a fallacy, please. Are you trying? Are we trying to tell the truth from the beginning to try to find solutions? I think we need to do this, it's a compromise we need to make. It's true that since the alarm decree, March 13th, until June, well, a single command was issued. That's it. And we wouldn't deny from this pharystol that the centralization of computers has stifled at some point many autonomous communities to prepare for the challenge of facing the crisis of the coronavirus, avoiding what was most essential, which was the initial infection, right? It's true. But we won't deny reality either. Many autonomous communities have found themselves in the same situation and have been able to overcome these difficulties. And, moreover, in the case of the residences, do we have the fact that the person responsible for managing the residences was Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who did not absolutely do nor did he take any measure of respect for the residences throughout the sole command, from which he was not beneficiary, for which thing, he helped? No, no, Are you numb? I don't think so. That said, the diagnosis that counselors make of reality has a self-critical part, that's fine, that we think it's positive, but it's not enough. Why? Because you also drew a situation where you were always coordinated and you were more or less working. And the reality is that there have clearly been objectives that show that it hasn't been like this. Basically because, in the end, there are complaints of affections, there are directors of centers, there are unions, there are employers. The Catalan Association of Directors of Dependency Centres and the Union of Small and Medium-Sized Residences have also denounced it, and also the federations of residences of the third sector. Then everyone's not wrong. Maybe the analysis and diagnosis isn't right. And, in fact, one of the realities is that you took part in 19_percent of Catalonia's residential places. Miri, one of the things you said to the inside of the pandemic is that you would try, as it were, to protect above all the heaviest of the infection and the pandemic of the coronavirus. But this reality overcame them, and the data, the figures, and the families that have suffered the loss of loved ones to residences prove it. And I think there are four axes that maybe if we analyze them, they can give the keys to improve this management. The first is disconnection and disprovision of sanitary materials. You know perfectly well that the first days of the pandemic the messages addressed to the population were contradictory, absolutely contradictory; all those related to prevention and all those related to the minimum measures to be taken by residential centres. They were practically nil and fell into oblivion. I'm sorry, President. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.25.0	A technical stop. Don't pateixin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.26.0	I'm sorry, huh? But it's just that the air conditioner has left us frozen up there and I'm patenting. No, I don't want to make a law. Thanks, huh? Well, the four axes I've told you that I think we could improve the situation and the management of the residences, because the bud we're following, the alert we're following, and it's... first, you made a mistake, which was disconnection and disabling of sanitary material, contradictory messages. In fact, the centers suspended the visits, and they did so practically by their own decision. You've even recognized him here, haven't you? Because among other things you recommend, but do not make decisions. It was also very difficult to hold material, because, if it was complicated for the autonomous communities, I imagined that it was going to the market on the part of a health centre or a geriatric centre. Obviously, this did not control the contagion between the residents and therefore made the situation worse. There was decoordination, according to that, of course there was there. And the fact that it's transferring social business functions to sanitation shows it, and the fact that the residents and the directors of the trick centers and they don't find any assistance... in fact, they denounce until and not only that the email doesn't answer them, but they don't just phone them. You're obvious. And you have already explained that it was an absolutely functional issue, the change and the transfer of skills from one consultancy to another, but the reality is that if everything worked so well it wouldn't be necessary for this change. I don't know if this is due to a decision of President Torra or if it is due to a decision of the Health Counselor, but in any case there was something that was failing and that's why he made the change. The third is that you expelled the big ones from the health care system, they abandoned them. It is true that they talk a lot about the universality of the system, and many times we, from the People's Party, ask ourselves: « For whom? Universality over here? Because, in the end, the big people, in this crisis of the coronavirus, were totally out of the healthcare system; they left them out. First, through the fets, and then, through the March 24 protocol they sent to the SEM. First. In fact, it was exposed by a manager of a centre, who told us, therefore, that 84_percent of the infected residents denounced..., with 84_percent of the infected residents, denounced that, at the earliest moments of the pandemic, they started to call the SEM and noticed that either the SEM did not care or 061 never made available the available resources, did not act. The fixation of the protocol that was sent out from emergencies and that prioritized according to the years of life that could be saved needed to condemn the great people. Because it's obvious that a person with a greater age has fewer years of life to save, with which things were left without opportunities. Only by age. The limitation of the therapeutic effort with seniors of seventy-five years, without even taking into account the criteria and the clinical quad and the opinion of the families, left them condemned. And this is a reality, and that's why the protocol was changed, because it wasn't fair, because it left them out, because it condemned them. If they... I understand that hospitals could be collapsing. I think the families also understand that. Now, question: what alternatives did they organize from the two councils to offer to those great people who were in residence and to their families? Did they open more country hospitals? They opened it up, but while they were numbing the construction of us, the ones that made the U.S.A. Sabadell's lost 15 days. The one from Sant Andreu de la Barca didn't even open. The one you opened was a_me later. And it was due to ideological prejudices, they've already told them: proceed to the obligation to help save lives. Did they medicalize centers to offer that assistance in centers without making the hospital transfer? They didn't, either. They didn't. And, besides, I knew perfectly well that many centers only counted with a geriatrician per plant, per nits, to listen to thirty opinions, with which thing that protocol formulated of "if it is possible to remain to the residence and to be aware that it is remained known that it was poorly formulated of inici. They carried the decision of the SEM, which was included in that protocol, to say: "We are not deciding who lives and who dies, who can benefit from more treatment," who can benefit from more treatment. It was an exclusion. There were no hospital transfers... And in the end, we have a reality. Mr. Torra, President Torra, said a few days ago: "We have done everything possible and more. And I think it didn't go like this: families didn't hear it like that; figures don't say that. And the fact that you recognize mistakes would help, in the end, not to recover lives, because it can no longer be, and it will not be enough to climb for families who have lost a loved one, but it will help that this disease does not return to produce in the same circumstances for as long as it lasts for this evil pandemic of the Covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.28.0	Good evening. Thank you, President. President, advisors, counsel, thanks for the honest and clear presentation of the management of these months. Because it's about that, not just saying, but doing. And the ones who talk the most, the ones who are more aggressive on their accusations are often the ones who are most responsible. And that's unfair. Why turn criticism into one-way and one-way wear when all of us system correspondents are, Mr. Moreno, and above all Mr. Ribas, as to the least questionable. And more, for you, that they have responsibilities for governance in other spheres. And I honestly think there's been a bit of a mistake today. Miri, we won't fool ourselves. The debate has to be honest and we have to talk openly about everything that's been going on these months. The pandemic has been very harsh and cruel against those people who are most vulnerable, and Covid has questioned a model that is now exhausted. The big people, the families, the workers, everybody. We have said this repeatedly in this Parliament, and today we will not stop doing it again: the pain of these months is very great, and it is very much the people who have lost a family member from a hard social background and who have not been able to make the eats like lime, as we need to do. And we can't say that the emotional management of this pandemic is individual, but it also has a collective part. What we've been through these months we've never seen before. No one could imagine what the magnitude and impact of the coronavirus would be. And the big people, like society's most vulnerable collection, have gone to the worst part. And we can't pull this intervention without having an emotional record for all of them. Pain has been shared but once alone. And we have had to manage it collectively as we could. In the way they want, in the way they want, in the way they want, in the way they want, in the way they want, in the way they want, in the way they want, in the way And that's very hard to match. A lot of people died, a lot of people died; a lot more sickened; a lot recovered, and for all of them, throughout the city, it is up to us to continue. We were talking last week, in this very room, in the plethora of reconstruction, that we can and do not want to let anyone go back and that now has to reactivate the country in terms of health, but also social and economic. And whatever I gave you before, we have to make it happen; we are all folded here because things happen. We've made a specific plea to talk about residences. And it's obvious that this Ple, as will the commission of inquiry, are a double-wired weapon. But we are not going to get this debate into a political mess, because we need to talk about residences; we need to talk about our great people, about opinions and opinions; we need to talk about priorities; we need to talk about the model. Because proposals and political decisions have consequences and because they must; they owe them to all our great people. For all this, today, above all, we will talk about the future. The generation that has suffered most from the consequences of Covid-19 is the generation that has already rebuilt this country once, the one that has lifted the veil against tyranny, that has won us for all freedoms, that has built of non-res the streets that are now soon to be filled again, and that they have marched to give their children a better future. We need a whole generation of us to capture the down-to-up model, to make them a minimum part of everything they've given us. For some of them, alas – alas – we arrive late. It's so sad as hell. But we have to do everything else. And we need everyone to be willing to add, co-responsible, coordinate, build spirit. We expect all of you – all of us – to contribute. If I'm just here for wear, that's what today, that's what you'll end up selling, it won't do you any good. Well, yes, for the wear and tear and for the politics. But we have a lot of work to do, and so let's not expect a motion for a resolution with insurmountable traps that subscribe only to electoral campaigns. We expect from all of you proposals that you serve to improve, that you serve to add, that you serve to help the people of this country. Because there's a lot of work left to do. We haven't done much – much. Not just this government, and a global pandemic. Counselors, advisors, thanks, thanks for putting her in the same place and soul to do her best. All of you, thank you very much. We are very proud to hear the model of social protection as a tool of cohesion, a tool to the abst of everyone who needs it. And this was very clear in 2003 when a clear, strong bet was made for social services with universal character, along with stigmatization. For Esquerra Republicana, social services must be a pillar more of the welfare state, which, it is also true, will need to strengthen even more now, after the Covid. They can't be the pot, they have to be part of the fonaments. And that's where we have him now and today. If anyone had it clear, it was Constellera Bassa. I think about it when I'm talking about a social model that's about protecting people. And today I also want to claim what the Lower Pain has left unpacked. It promoted a plan of improvement for the residences granted to the sector in order to improve the management model, the quality, but also the sustainability of the centres. The objective was to reverse the detail that the sector had suffered repeatedly – repeatedly – since 2008. And he put on the table a new Catalan law of dependence. I wanted to set up new routes, profile and schedule. This social model as central to the welfare state is anchored in a 2007 law of social services, which already wanted to capture the model of social services and place the right to social attention at the same level as education, sanitation or pensions. This is the paradigm that we all need to recover from. As I said, this model was born in 2003, when we assumed a department that in terms of inversion was absolutely at the core of Europe; with two years it tripled the assumption, and those figures pleased us, pleased us very much. But it is obvious that we need decentralisation, fast systems, less bureaucracy, more individual responses and more proximity and home care, but also – more presumption. The redistribution of wealth and progressive tax reform must, for example, serve this purpose. But it is also a flagrant evidence that anything about this is possible if the chronic infra-financing for Catalonia is maintained – the chronic infra-financing for Catalonia, Mr. Moreno; I can take note, that the sight that is pointing. Nor will it be possible if the model we build from then on replicates privatizations and retails. We don't need this for anything. From our point of view, this model would lengthen itself from putting people at the centre of political action. And we're precisely political about putting people in the center. And precisely with this sole objective, the Government of the Generality has taken decisions in these last few months. The first recommendations, the first councils of the government arrived days before the state of alarm is decreed. A strike plan was executed for residents with day-to-day coordination with the centres. It boosted a work bag that has been run and that is still active today, and is also reinforced via the home care service. The Government is promoting a transport service for the EPIs. From the climax of the moment, you will find hotels and rest spaces for both residents and professionals, and medical spaces for large positive Barcelona Resident Covid people with 240 beds and eight thousand meters in parallel. I'll tell you some more, repeat, but I think you'd need more than 106,800 PCRs to residents and workers today. All the country's residents have been tested. Thirteen residences have been used to change the management company because the conditions are not complete. 2,500 large people have moved to our space; 730 residents have returned to their home. So far, for the great people have made themselves available a thousand and seventeen new places with twenty-seen spaces. More than 4,500 transferred to hospitals and mid-term care. More than fifty-four inspections were carried out at forty-four residences. Public Greeting has made more than seven thousand phone calls and almost a thousand face-to-face visits. Almost 580 disinfections have taken place. More than 8 million units of material have been distributed. And primary care has intensified their attention to residents with more than eight hundred health professionals, giving direct attention to residents and support to residential teams. The situation was very complex, and it was for all of us, and denying the major would be wrong, because yes, in good part we are after on the march, like everyone else, but he has always worked to help the people of this country. We're only useful if we're for that. And the model we want is this one that I gave them: people at the center of political action. And we can only see that if we strengthen the public system, if it doesn't lack resources. And, in fact, and therefore, there is another part of the recent history of this country and of Europe that we do not claim, that we do not like and that above all we do not want it to be repeated again. We will not get out of this crisis with cuts, restrictions, or contractions in public spending. And for us, it is clear that during the years of the ill-named austerity, very harsh measures were applied that strongly impacted the welfare state. And today we are and we have to be very far away from that mantra of 2010. Because the residences can't be a space to make a profit again. We want a thorough public control; that no one will ever negotiate more with the people of this country. Our goal is public management. But we're coming from far away, and we're being asked to move forward in this sense. We want to compromise, good management, public service, control of administration, respect for contracts and always withhold accounts. And we had a first tool to do it, and you dropped it. It was a law, and you dropped it. And today we wouldn't have Eulen running some of our CAPs. Our model, therefore, passes to strengthen the public sector, also with reference to the workers of the sector, undervalued too often and not remunerated as it would play. The social and health professionals are an essential part of social cohesion, they are the ones who care for us most. Why don't we take care of who's taking care of us? Now that we are talking about residences, we cannot help but say, as we have said so many times, that there are urgent improvements in working conditions and better wages. And it's clear that the way to guarantee it is the public cent_per_cent management. So much! But we also have to recognise, and it would be very unfair not to do so, that social entities, which the third sector is today, are now the very driving force behind social and health management. Therefore, we need laws to ensure the quality of the service, the improvement of working conditions and the complete control by the Administration, above, always above, of other requirements such as the price. We are a plural society, with a rich and diverse fabric; we need a new social look where the fabric of association, cooperation, the third sector, has a protagonist that has won with its pocket and with its full dedication. Where we don't get from the administration, we'll all have to get there. He said, "Residences cannot, must not be a political weapon of wear; it is time to change things, to bring different looks that are translated into political action, where the person and his emotional, cognitive and sensitive ability and his family environment are at the center of everything." This is a social problem, not of a generation, but of all vital stages, and ask all of us. And, therefore, we have to face it with rigour and clarity, because we manage names and surnames, we don't manage numbers: neither the residents nor the workers nor no ones are figures. We don't want any numbers or boards of directors that share the money they make with our people's patience and problems. There are no social policies without labour rights. There was no welfare without people in the center. And we know that maybe they don't see it the same way, that they haven't seen it the same way, that maybe they prioritize the private sector. They won't find us; we fight it. In fact, they fight it more than ever. Because we've seen how these days life clings to everything that was public, from hospitals to school, social aids, the street, the res publica, which organizes us better as society, which protects us. And we, from the Republican Left, want to claim it and always claim it in the four winds. We have seen how in these past few months our companies worked from honesty and humility, knowing that we are fragile, knowing that we are vulnerable, like everyone else, before a global pandemic and before a complex and enormous situation that we have not seen before. I don't have any later. And we've seen our company leave the hours, the hours, and the hours, as it should be. And today, too, this parliamentary group, which supports them, we want to recognize them. To save lives, to avoid the collapse of the health system, to attend to the most vulnerable emergencies and collectivities, to help all those who were left without work, those who lowered the blind and those who could raise it again and those who did not; to seek resources for those who did not have one, and to guarantee the administration of the most basic products. They were the government's priorities – the advisors have explained it extensively. And we believe that, despite the fact that things can get better, despite the fact that they can always do better, despite the fact that much remains to be learned, despite the fact that they are bound by hands and feet, despite the fact that we have a state that we have had many more opportunities than we have had, the government has always acted willingly, trying to anticipate in its decisions. Even though they took on our skills, they tried to move forward all the time. Do you have any idea of the disarray that represents changing the health management of a pandemic, a global emergency? It's so irrational; so irrational, it hasn't gone any further. I told you before, nobody's ready for this. But neither can we forget that we are from the first territories of the State that we took decisions on the first week of March, decisions that the rest took later, and that in our case have been closed in good part to contain the impact on the same residences; decisions like closing day centres, not making any new entrances in the centers to dispose of spaces to make good trips, limit and restrict visits to residences. But as in all areas of this management, the initial re-centralisation and the sole command decreed for the Spanish State in the distribution of material had a negative impact, also in this sector: it delayed the arrival of material; it broke the supply chain of material to the residences, with harmful consequences; there were no protection teams; there was no such tests, that they were closed to the innic for having made an adequate complement. And there are a few who, in their criticisms, forget it, especially those who are part of this government of the State. By luck, the question has begun to resolve. And when did it start to work out? After a large purchase made directly for the Catalan Government, directly for the Benestar Department, to the Xina, which allowed the general distribution of protection equipment from the country for a few weeks. But, despite everything, despite always paying you to have a state against you refocusing on place to bet on your co-responsibility, on a state that's underfunded and with giant debts, even though it doesn't change, we also have to say that today we know a lot more, that we have more information and that we have after all what we could do better. Today we are more and better prepared for a rebound. We have the knowledge, the compromise and the certainty that all the necessary resources will be seized. So he put it in replenishment yesterday the government. And now, with more knowledge, knowing what resources we need, we're prepared to move forward. We have a contingency plan, the contingency plan that this very Parliament had approved and that today is already a reality. And let's celebrate that he's generally seen all the groups well. Today we have the system prepared, 96_million more, to take a big step forward, prepared for cracking in case of suspension. We have the necessary PCRs and material within four weeks. The role of socio-sanitary and mid-care centres has been strengthened; there will be more beds, up to five hundred more beds, and 500_million euros will be invested. And a reinforced primary care with half a thousand professionals to gain efficiency and proximity, at a cost of 15_million. But it doesn't end here, because it's not just about strengthening the health care side, but also the social sphere, and it's multiple resources and it's reordering and it's reinforcing the old residential one, with a global assumption of 56_million euros, 2,800 places to increase the capacity of the residents to respond before possible rebounds. And with this we win: faster sectoralization, more ability to ward off probable or confirmed cases, and the attention of asymptomatic users either positive or with a course of disease. And all this without oblivion that it is keeping the support spaces for relocations of residents in case they are needed, or the voluntary returns to the home whenever the person does not present symptoms and is in a stable situation. Also more contracts: new professionals in geriatrics who will pay direct attention to the residents and guarantee the application of the measures of winging and care organization, or 370 nurses to strengthen health care in residents of more than sixty places. As I was saying, better and better preparations. And I used to say that it was very important for us to talk about the future as well as the model and where we have to walk. What has manifested this crisis in particular are the shortcomings of the current model, and I think we need to be brave and explain that it is exhausted, that it lacks the strength behind the public sector, that it does not solve the prevention or care of the great people before entering the residence, that it is necessary to improve the integrated social and health care, not fragment the care, but to do it from a single and shared, with the ability to plan, with the ability to execute the policies jointly, which is what the two departments are jointly doing today, which is not what they have done historically. We are in an urgent hurry, therefore, to start working on rethinking it from top to bottom, and the Department of Health and the Department of Social Affairs have already begun to lay the first stones. Today we have a system of services that is functionally private and atomized, without a public anchor that is powerful enough. Unlike health or education, the social sphere has not had a solid public base, and we believe that the third pot of the state of Catalan well-being should be made from the social sphere. We have the opportunity to rebuild our social model, especially that of residences, after this very harsh sacrifice, and we need to know how to take advantage of it. We must take this challenge in order to make social progress in our country. We need to rethink the model of care for the great people in three phone lines: u, strengthen the public mind to be able to improve the quality of care and conditions of the workers; two, promote personal autonomy with more domestic and zero-kilometer servants, in short, that the great people can stay home as long as possible, and three, guarantee comprehensive care, both social and health care, that allows people with more difficulties to care for their network and also their individuality. Obviously, this represents a downward shift in the model; a change respects what has been done over the past forty years. But we believe that it is time to prioritize the public sector, the quality of life of people over other conditions or other priorities. We bet decisively for the zero-kilometer envelope, reinforcing all the mechanisms that allow us to expand as much as possible the state at home and the personal autonomy of the great people, and only when there is no more way to take the step to the residences, seeking to keep to the maximum their personal environment and options and respecting the individuality of each. It is very important that the new model keeps personal, family and social networks as active as possible. We want to walk towards a more Nordic model, more focused on the person and his quality of life, but obviously this goes through a much stronger public sector. In this sense, the Vergés and El Homrani advisors have already announced the inn at the end of the integrated agency of care for people, a new public operator encapsulated for the two departments that will be responsible for making an integral approach to personal autonomy and dependence, both from the social as well as health care. In this sense, the agency will age to promote this zero-envelope, while reinforcing prevention, intensifying home-care services and excavating the community support network. This tool also has to be used to strengthen public anchoring and governance of the residential care system. We have the conviction that as a country we do not only need to review the model of residences, we also need to rethink how to care for and care for large people, with disabilities or with mental health problems that do not have enough autonomy, people, in short, more vulnerable, people with dependence, who require long-term care and care. And this agency is clearly on this line. It is necessary to combine the zero-kilometer envelope with a more personalized, healthier and residential care. To ensure a better public response to people in vulnerable situations and in need of complex health and social care due to fragility, chronicity, dependence or social exclusion, while overcoming fragmentation of care processes and facilitating transition and continuity between health and social systems. We believe that this review should be done with a public operator in the form of an agency that integrates the social and health sectors, that integrates the different phases of the process: planning, evaluation, territorial operational action, integrated care. And the design of the agency will work, as always, together with all the sectors involved: local administrations, professionals, social workers, third sector and citizens. We have not come here today to throw the dishes for anyone, unlike others; we have come here to fight for improvement, to explain the difficulties of a situation that for all of us was unpublished, to explain where we came from, with a history of privatization and retailing, but also with many hopes of explaining where we think we should go, that it is a bet for the public sector and for the third sector. We gave it all until today. We have the contingency plan for if there is a rebound and we also have a project for the future. It's never easy, and especially when you're in coalition, but we're sure we'll get out of it and have the opportunity to create a new, more robust, people-centred model with a strong public system. In short, we have come to build and not to destroy, because we are convinced that building and not to destroy is what the people of this country ask of us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on this occasion of the parliamentary groups, I would like to reply to Mr Josep Maria Forné, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.30.0	Mr President, President, Councillors, Members and Members, we are talking about a part – because there is still the part of the reply and there is still a part of the challenge – of this session, which is devoted exclusively to the issue of residences. I also want to start with the other groups, in the same way, on behalf of the group, expressing the words of condolence and the words of support, of condolence to the families who have lost esteem, in this case, especially, opinions, but not only opinions, logically, but, in this case, that we are making the plethora of residences, therefore, to the relatives who have lost opinions at this time, and words of support to all those who have struggled and are still struggling to fight this disease, this pandemic. Also thank you, and let's expect, as the Aragonese deputy says, that accompanying vaginas, these words, of contents, of professional recognition, of money. That we'll all work, and we're aware, that we'll do it. But thanks to those people who work, they have worked in the residences in an exemplary way and in a way that, with their compromise and with their work, they have been able to give an answer of attention and cure at very difficult times. Thanks to everyone you've worked with, from responsibility to direction – I sometimes have the loneliness with which in these moments of crisis a direction has to take decisions – as workers, as cleaners. It seems like it's been said, but it's not that it's a question of graduation, it's, like, everybody's involvement. Give thanks to these people. Also let me say a few words of solidarity to my fellow countrymen, because we are going through complicated times; we are going through difficult times and we need to fight and we need to overcome these difficult times. And especially, let me also dedicate these words of solidarity to people who are in residence. We think that the residences of the Segria have passed a few stages; after a exhaustion and the migration of forces, therefore, we now find it necessary to work another time with a special insistence. So, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. But they only heal when they're loaded with truth. And the truth is that the truth of the words..., does not carry the one who tells them, but detects the ones who answer them, because they say that a saying that they are true..., this is very easy to tell them; the one who answers them is easier than to detect them if they are true. And what we should get in this House is that the words that come out of here..., because it's a parliament and mainly what we're going to do is use the words, apart from the agreements and what we can, but these words, the words that come out of here because they're loaded with truth, they're going to get over two inclinations that our mind has sometimes to give answer to complex realities. We're in a complex, very complex, difficult reality – then I'll comment on some of the features, and complex realities mean they have multiple approaches and multiple ways, say, to give an explanation. It's true that the ideological bias of each scene... – and this one we have, and what you think is not, therefore, is wrong, but –, the ideological bias makes the interpretations that one does, of this complex reality, have one bias or another, but it's a complex reality. And sometimes we cheat. And who are the traps that we can do and what do the words do not have a load of truth, and that, therefore, they are not curative? To simplify before a complex reality; to think that there is only one label: it is the fault of neoliberalism, and here the neoliberals are the culprits of everything. This is a simplification. We could find some more, some simplifications, huh? So did I. Or, for example, repeat associations of ideas without having a foundation in the facts, for example, right? Mrs. Roldán told us, she constantly reminded us, therefore, that the processions, the independenceists, we are some who have full responsibility for what has happened here because of our ideas and our political intentions. Repeating and repeating this is as if somehow it was..., what ends up is simplifying the explanation of things. And that's not good. A complex reality requires an approach from that honesty – that I think some of us, most of us who have spoken here... – that one does not have the whole truth, as one has at least one part of the truth, and must recognize the other and make an effort in the other, to recognize the truth of the other. So now we're going to take a little more rest from this vision, really, they recognize that it's a part of the truth of what's happened or what's going on and how to approach it. There's an idea that I think it's good, that it's convenient to repeat, that it's the one that we're as strong as it is the heaviest of our trunks, huh? The most vulnerable fever that every one of us, and as a collection, has is our maximum strength. If we look at each other like this, we'll definitely hear what's happened to each other and at this point we can hear how to focus things. The crisis has done nothing but manifest fever. And if we're able to detect these fevers, we're able to detect and recognize our forts, and to the extent that these fevers are less feverish, stronger. But the crisis has done nothing but make us manifest that we live in a society with fevers, and important fevers. Make this more general approach, my intervention will have three moments, huh? He'll have three moments. One, analyze or point or point out some of the things that we consider to have happened and that are worth putting on the table, mainly with the soul that these things have happened..., this self-criticism that we have to do is essential to give an answer to what can and must happen. This would be the second time we wanted to..., the first was a little what happened, this self-criticism; the second time, see what it is that can happen and with the lesson that we have after giving an answer that avoids many things. And a third moment of the intervention would be to draw more of the model in which we loved each other or saw each other. We could say it's acting for the air, thinking for tomorrow. And it's good to think about it tomorrow. Before Congressman Moreno said: "Maybe years and years will pass before this is achieved. It's the same, even though it's important to make it clear, because the steps we're taking right now are driving in the right direction, huh? As far as I'm concerned, if they find us offensive to the high seas, they find us nedant to port, right? , and not in the direction of contract. So this would be, say, the object for which to draw the model despite the awareness that this will not be a one-day thing for another and that it is essential to do so. And surely we won't all agree on this same model, but discussing the model is also very important and it is essential to do so. What happened? Well, so things haven't happened that haven't happened in other parts of the world. The crisis of residences is a crisis that is not unique. It has not only passed to Catalonia, it has passed to the whole Western world and it has passed to the whole world with characteristics that look like ours. And, therefore, this is a first consideration that we believe. Then, a second thing that has happened is a very exceptional reality, a complex, complicated reality, with a health pandemic but with unthinkable social and economic consequences if you don't find yourself caught up in it. Therefore, an exceptionality that is also worth checking out. And then, also, well, so, the expiration – as it has all that is earthly – that is the expiration of a model of residences that you were thinking of for a population with a profile that would be depending on grade I-II, as you were thinking of residences, and now most of the residents are residents of grade III and some of grade II. So, it's a model that doesn't respond to a reality that we've found. However, all these exceptionalities, all these difficulties, all these generalities that may exist from the situation of the residences..., we would like to highlight, in a sense of self-criticism, four things, that have already come out several times and that it is worth highlighting, that we must avoid all in later situations. The equipment and resources of the residences. We have been scarce, late – and surely this is much better – in the equipment and resources that the residents have managed to cope with the pandemic. This is one of the phenomena, one of the problems, one of the facts that we need to take into account and think for what is to come, so prevent us. He can't take us back in any way on this one. The cracking of the residents, their derivation, their detection, has also been another of the difficult problems that has arisen. This is another of the facts that we need to answer. Surely the lack of knowledge, the lack of..., all folded has complicated it a lot. We have no doubt about the question of will and intent, but it is a fact that there is. A third; the issue of family relationship protocols is another..., protocols or how to relate to families in what I would suppose many times..., in some situations of grief, which is fundamental to this follow-up, so this has not just been done. And then, another of the important elements is the issue of coordinating the social world with the health world, which we are not discovering the Mediterranean because it has been a long time since the Mediterranean is discovered. The first of the intentions of a coordination agency between social and health care is in 2004. In this last ton, with Constellera Geli, the Navy Geli, and then there were other intentions such as plans and PIAIs, and different programs, because it's one of the problems, and that this crisis has now made manifest as one of the fevers we have and so, well, we have to give it an answer. All of this must serve us no longer than if we can apologize, apologize, but above all to anticipate what we can come to in situations that, for what the epidemiologists tell us – and more historically we see – epidemics do not end in a first ton – or onada, I don't know how the word is more correct – but they have cyclical repetitions with different intensity and hope that no later modifications. So, what do we think we should do now? Acting, beyond the model; it's looking for material, looking for equipment. We know that we need elements of detection, we need elements that allow us to make a good screening, such as derivation. That's what this prediction has to be. Accessibility to diagnostic tests. We think that this is really over-guaranteed now, but we can't fail another one of this... Having alternate spaces, spaces in which to derive those people in the residencies because the residencies aren't really turning into a very high mortality focus, huh? Communication with families. We are aware: the contingency plan presented yesterday by the Health and Social Councillors contemplate these elements. That's all there is to it, huh? And we celebrate. And the president has already done so in his intervention and his references to this contingency plan and all that. Staff reinforcement. It won't be easy. It's not as easy as I say, but think about it. That is to say, how to guarantee not only that there is this name, these thousands of staff we need, but that there is a training and a quality that guarantees the performance of the service as it is and as it deserves our opinions and our residents. It hasn't been discussed, but I do want to put it on the table. In view of the new situation, which we hope will not, and which this time is not complete that historical one that I allow to say that there is a certain repetition of these phenomena, the cost overruns that have been found... – it is true that it seems to me that Congressman Moreno has not done so – the cost overruns that have been found by the entities in this pandemic. And not just the extra costs, but the smallest tickets, because in many of them there were sometimes activities that allowed them to have some extra tickets that they can't have right now. Therefore, the cost overruns and the lack of entrances have left these entities too much muscle premium. And if they have to be actors too, because they have to be, because they are responsible with the concerts and contracts that exist for the provision of services to people, with the muscle shortage and with the resistance they have, we need to think about responding to their costs and their loss of entrances. In summary, we could say that a good way could be to think of modules, of the revision of modules and of the incorporation of the sanitary fee in the residences, in the performance of the services. That's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to be able to break it up for a while, which is to signify that model, where we'd like to go, taking into account that we have to act now – so, it's not that we're playing the violin; we have to act now – but drawing that model allows us if the action of this day is well directed or not well directed. We have to say, for us, it's important to review this model, huh? , and we have to consider that the crisis that it does is opening up an opportunity. It seems to me that Mrs Ribas has been the Member who, after rebuilding her, said, has to be considered as a way of directing us to a better situation, no, but rather not repeating what we already had. And in this sense, we have to consider it as an opportunity, and so we take it. Even so, we consider that, for example, the economy should take advantage of this model review. For example, one of the indicators of economic growth – which liberal economists serve, and so on – is when societies invest more in welfare and service to people, meaning that they are societies with economic growth and are societies that are worth investing in in some way. So we invest in people's services, as well as a way of economic growth, huh? And we could take advantage of it in this way. Sense of doubt, and we'll talk about it later, that home automation and the whole digital economy and the whole economy based on artificial intelligence can also be a good tool for economic growth and can be used to improve the model. This model has to extend the residences of an identification that at a certain time... which hurt us, especially the identification of the residences with places where they were going to die. Residents are not places of death but residences are places of life. And so we have to hear them, so we have to hear them. The other thing. This new model of residences must respond to the reality in which we find ourselves. In just 20 years, in just 20 years, and that's not what we're talking about, extraordinary things of time, 20 years, has changed the hope of life roughly in two years in our country. That's a lot. This meant an aging of the population, and accompanying this aging there was the chronification, that is, those diseases that at a certain time caused us death, now what we do is not cause death, but they do not somehow disappear unless they are chronified, huh? It seems to us that – in big numbers, huh? – if in a city of less than sixty years would mean a cost of u, the city of more than seventy years the cost goes away twice. So, that would be God's, huh? This aging and chronification have changed the reality and changed the costs, and we need to give it an answer. And the model has to pass to give answer to this new reality. And we're still going with a model that doesn't respond to this reality that has changed in the past 20 years, and that we hope that this life expectancy isn't left in these two years that has increased in these twenty, but it's increased and that, therefore, it's... Therefore, it is essential to give an answer to this new reality. What does that mean? That those people who are now in need of attention with this new model are people who require..., I have talked about 1 to 10, I have talked about the need for care that they have, for medical care, with which it is essential that the residences are not disconnected and the social world is not disconnected from the health world, and that, therefore, a tool can be the agency, the agency can be a good element. What's clear is that... as could be the programs or plans that there was coordination between... but that has to be done. For example, in the communication of social data and health care, there must be some element that makes this new user profile of these residences, so it remains from this new dimension that it is incorporated into it, which did not have the model of residences that we had before, always seeking as objective the autonomy of the people and the decision of the people who follow the phone. For this reason, rather than talking about a model of residence, we prefer to talk about a model of long-lasting, long-lasting care. Let's hope that this life goes on and that this life that goes on has a cure and a... as long as it lasts, as long as it can and as long as it goes, right? This would be the intention of this new model; a model that is not necessarily based on residences but on the attention of people in their long journey from the end of life, which we expect to be very long. And this requires respect for their intentions, their decisions, their autonomy, and institutionalization, to diminish it – even though a society will not be able to respond to collective needs without a minimum of institutionalization. Mrs. García, it is true that it is not all true in the responsibility of dependence, but dependence does not work and, as it is, it is necessary to review the model and funding. A financing that does not work and that has carried, not to the autonomy, not to the Generality..., if not, ask even the autonomy that you have governed as you have carried and passed them, in a very hard time, all economic costs and a direct management to the city, while the State, to say the least... looked at it from the barrier. Yeah, huh? Therefore, it is another thing to review in this model, to review the dependence and its financing and its model and to define the degrees and the assignment of the services to those degrees. Logically, with this also went the topic of the service portfolio. Surely... no, sure, if we're talking about reviewing a model that was designed for a reality and the service portfolio was designed for a reality, now, if we didn't change it too we would be doing a weak favor and, therefore, it's also one of the things that needs to be changed and revised together with this new model. The theme of municipal administration, municipal administration as one of the elements to give strength to the answers of the new reality and of this new model in which we have to meet the great people. The municipal administration, surely for an organization mindset between Spain and France, which have parents and parents of organization..., therefore the Catalan has also incorporated a very structure of a single administration, when the local administration is essential to take it into account and, therefore, will be one of the elements to consider as well. The dimensions of the residences. It is not easy, but surely it will also be one of the other elements that we will have to take into account in this new model. And when we're giving answers, now, we also have to think about these dimensions. We don't believe..., it's logical, Mrs. Ribas, that the larger residences have more mortality, for a question of proportion, but not necessarily..., this correlation of great residence, more mortality, more problems, small residence, no. Because just in times of the pandemic, small residents have suffered some shortcomings that have not suffered the great ones – and you seem to me to recognize it, because I know that it is hardly a road and battle directly on the ground – and, in change, the size, in the second five moments of the crisis, has been a positive element, in the second five themes. Why? Well, for more resources, to be able to optimize, etcetera. But it is true that the management of residences is an element. The atomization of the sector is not a problem for us, nor the heterogeneity of operators. This, with a good harmony, with a good way of working there... The molecules are organized by many atoms and the more atoms intervene, the most resistant molecule is, therefore, this atomization neither we would like... In this model, the dignity of professionals in the social sector is imperative. It can't be the recognition differences, the wage differences that exist, it can't be the maltreatment – and let me just hide it – that exists in the professionalization of the social world, and we have to give them answers, to this model. This won't be tomorrow, but the steps we're taking right now, we're gonna have to get them... straight over here. Residents cannot lose their social dimension. Source: http://europa.eu.int/comm/comm/comm/comm/index_en/comm/index_en/comm/index_en/comm/index_en/comm/index_en/index_en/comm/index_en/index_en/comm/index_en/index_en/index_en.htm Residences cannot be converted into hospitals. As the increase in Catalonia... – and this is a differential fact that does not exist in many other territories – there is an element, that is the socio-sanitary. If he does, intensify it, before converting its long-lasting – not its attention into the pandemic, its long-lasting – we have an important element, which is the socio-sanitari; that we should certainly strengthen, in order to work this long-lasting, the socio-sanitari. But the residences are not converted into hospitals, which have a very important social dimension. Ownership is not the problem. Mr Vidal Aragonese, I understand that, from a strict Marxist perspective, the vision is that economic growth is only produced from the impoverishment of others. History shows us that economic growth is produced without necessity... on the contrary, many times reducing poverty and misery, but this certainly brings us to discuss the issue. So, we don't see title as a problem, but it can even serve as an element for power..., essential in the model. And I'm done. It is imperative to distinguish between the great people, the disability, the mental salvation. It's treatises that deserve differential elements and when we talk about residences we talk about all of them, and we also need to talk about the residences of young people without..., which the Generality has, eh? And I'm done. The lessons we should learn are, we would say: the coordination of the social and health world is essential, and this coordination must have an immediate response. Now, in order to face what may come, the agency can be a good element, but if less pretentious, but more effective, elements fall, this is fundamental. This is one of the... Why? Because we cannot lose the social dimension, but we cannot fail to comply with our opinions healthily with their needs. It will normally empower and develop social home care services as a tool for comprehensive social and health care. And repeat once more the thanks to the staff, the professionals, that we expect you to accompany this thanks not only of words, and give back once more the condol, the support and the animum, and say that we will not fail them. Amongst all we will not fail them, to people who have lost family, to people who fight and to people who are found, in later situations, at times of seeming disgrace as in those who have found themselves these 4,099 families who have lost their opinions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to respond to parliamentary groups and sub-groups, has the word on behalf of the Government, first of all, the Councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.32.0	As I am aware that I have dynamized the timing predicted by the President of Parliament, I will try to be brief, but I believe that I am close to making some answers and I believe that I am close to making them clear. With the clarity that needs to be made, because some people think they should rethink some of the statements they have made. And we'll talk about it. In the first place, Mrs. Roldán. Moderation in the to has not remained in the content. And you've come in to locate other elements of what no group has talked about here, which I think we should rethink. But you have placed the UME, disinfection of the residences... Miri, the UME has made 143 disinfections – 143 disinfections. The Generalitat did 619. The Barcelona Bombers made disinfections in Barcelona waked up with the bombers; some joints too. We worked in every area, every possible way we did it... There was a time when the U.S. did not have the capacity to manage more disinfection – I also explain it. Now, you also told me about your medical staff. I didn't have any medical personnel, the U.S.A. I'm telling you, too, huh? I didn't have a doctor's staff. And it's also a question, huh? Just as some have spoken of the image of the EUM – I can also say, because I also know well enough what has happened – we could talk about the EUM when it called for pressure and the EUM when it didn't call for pressure, and ask it in some places. But from here on out, we add up on all sides, and that's not a problem. I'd just miss it. They also have some aspects that..., if I may, I will not enter this game. I could give them the percentages of people who unfortunately have died to the residents for autonomous communities, and they would find Catalonia to be in the seventh place and with some data that we would have just seen. But I don't think we're close to doing this. You could talk about Madrid, you could talk about Castella - La Manxa or you could talk about Extremadura; governments with very different political colors. But that's what I said, from here on out: I'm sure all governments have tried to do the best they can. And I don't think he's looking to do these things, but we have to do that, too, huh? , because the data is there and needs to be clarified one more little bit. But, okay. And, Mr. Moreno, of all your intervention, to me what has "smote me" is that at the moment he has spoken of the 203_millions that the Government of the State remains of a global reversal of 1,500. It's that with everything you've told me, with all the proposals you've put forward – and that's why I said that I think we need to be honest with the citizens – if we're talking about 203_million_about a global investment of 1,500 in a law created with the 50-50 hope, we have a problem. We have a problem, and it has to be settled. And it is true that Parliament has a difference with Congress: that in Parliament motions and motions for resolutions can be approved which in Congress cannot be approved, because, as they touch on assumptions, in Congress do not allow them to be approved. Well, it's another model, but it's also to be placed. It's another model. Because, in the same way that Mrs Ribas has placed me..., and I appreciate it, because I feel a person of a political formation that is part of the Government of the State, who has had the courage to say: "We need to talk about LAPAD and we need to talk about the financing of LAPAD, I absolutely appreciate it. But also when you defended me the assumptions of the past year, let's also explain: the 500_million that were left in dependence – and I don't discuss them – were due to the payment of contributions from non-professional caregivers, and in the debate that we have had here on the response to the health crisis in the residential environment of large people and people with disabilities you don't have to see. And from here on, if you're telling me that you're looking at a proposal that allows us to recover the 3,400_millions of the last few years that we haven't been able to place on state assumptions, I'm the first one I'm going to talk to my Madrid parliamentary group and say, "Home, if it's 3,500, we should be able to do something. I'm the first, for the responsibilities I have, but I don't think he's going this way. But from here, let's talk about it. And in certain things, very in agreement – in certain things, very in agreement. About the question of speculation, about the question of how to avoid it. Now, I also remember one thing: we have made – we have made – the Decree of Social Concertation, which will be approved this month; we have made all the processes of accreditation and concertation to avoid speculation in the field of care for people – it has also remembered, huh? This Parliament did not want to pull the contract, the law of service contracts to people. It's all right. But the General Contract Law doesn't help in all this. I'm the first person interested in pulling the concert law forward; now, I also saw that, as was the case with the law of service contracts to people, there's no guarantee that you're talking to, talking to groups, talking to them, and then, for the same situation, you're all pulling back. And that's it, and it has to be said by his name. From here, let's work. And some things, let's place them. It is that Mr. Moreno said: "Cape Ilei. Mr Moreno, since the month of last year's fever this Parliament has the Law for equal treatment and non-discrimination. Since the month of last year's fever, a year and a half, a bill from the government. I remember, too, because this is also necessary, huh? But from here on, they don't talk about finance, they're doing a whole reading that I think, having the responsibilities they have in the state government... I've tried to make self-criticism, I've tried to situate the aspects that we've suffered and the aspects that we've clearly discovered that we need to retouch, I think it would also benefit those two representatives who have political responsibility. Because I said it – I said it, and Mr. Vidal Aragonese asked me – and I said it in my intervention: it is that the centralization of the EPIs existed. Is it that they do not remember the complaint of the resident employer to whom the EPIs were requisitioned to the principles of the pandemic, the National Police, and sent them to the ministry? EPIs that were used for residences. And here I take the opportunity to respond to Mr. Vidal Aragonès, the person responsible for purchasing PPE is the managing entity. Now, before the situation, what have we done? We've bought it and we've distributed it to everyone. Now, the legal responsibility in this situation is of the managing entity. We are first aware that in a situation of this exceptionality he sought to do this, and we have done so very well. Now, I've said it too, and this... it's made this decision. Just as in the two social councils of all those responsible, of all the counselors who have responsibilities in the field of social matters, Vice President Pablo Iglesias told us that he would bring us EPIs. He even asked us for the list of each community's residences. Finally, in the second place, that in that I could not be-there, was-there my secretary of Social Afers, because he was in the sectoral conference of work– a problem being of Work and Social Afers–, made the proposal that to distribute it they would use the U.S.A.. And my secretary said that..., Catalonia and the Basque Country said: "No need for a U.S.A.. If we get the EPIs, don't worry that we have a logistics distribution system. And they're not coming. If I sent two cards, which no one answered me, to the vice president, where I said: "I'm going to buy EPIs also because my head of the legal office said: "Before the royal decree, as at least he sends the letter, because no one can say that they... And I sent it. And then everyone noticed that it was a mistake decision. It doesn't matter, or it does, but it was a mistake decision. And, let's position it, because, with what we know about this pandemic, we know that when EPIs are missing, we see the results fifteen days later, between a week and fifteen days later. And if we see how the pandemic has affected the residents, we'll see that the moment we buy the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, at fifteen days the theme is down. Why? Because you can afford them. And, yes, at first we shared the EPIs where there were positive cases, because we didn't have EPIs, because it was made a royal decree that centralized the purchase, and in two social councils it was said that they would get there, and when one week passed and you didn't, you say: "No, no, I make the purchase. And I quote with absolute honesty, and nothing happens. Just as I also said that we are after a question: we want more territoriality of the department, because, in the end, the questions are solved in every city and village, in every region of the country. From here, other elements they have placed, and I don't want to leave me. The CUP has asked some very concrete questions, Mr Aragones, and some I have already answered, but some I also want to answer. I got back to him about the EPI, the EPI obligation and the purchase and the gods that we lost in this sense. I also want to tell you, and you know perfectly well that since I have been advising the protocols of agreement that I have signed to increase places have continued with joints: the Assembly of Molins de Rei, the Assembly of Sabadell, the Assembly of Sant Vicenç dels Horts, the Prat del Llobregat, the Assembly of Castellnou del Vallès, the Assembly of Ripollet, the Assembly of Granollers and the Assembly of Santa Coloma de Gramenet. With which, it's a very concrete look around the creation of places. Together, they are a public administration. But from here on out, we have a very scattered model. I am glad that I am very clear that we need public governance, we need more public operators, we need more work with the assemblies; for this reason I have signed the arrangements with the assemblies. Now, there's also a social fabric that does it well; there's also a private fabric that does it well. That it's a small company, many times, linked to the territories. I have followed..., in my intervention I have found that standardization – Mrs Ribas has spoken of "fortification, I have spoken of "fortification" – in some elements, so it has helped, and I am very clear. And I am very clear, that speculation is not good in this area; that what we want is not speculation, it is the project of assistance to people, and in this we will work and continue to work. And about the inspection, yes, situating... you, Mr. Aragonès, know perfectly well how, for example, the Labour Inspectorate, and the Social Service Inspectorate don't call before they act. Now, there is a reality that is poorly endowed. I'm telling you, she's badly gifted. I have the Labour Inspectorate, and the Social Service Inspectorate, and the Social Service Inspectorate is poorly equipped. This is why we present the contract program that allows us more capillary to the territory and strengthens the Inspectorate of Social Servants, because it is poorly equipped for everything it has to do. And I say it without a problem to say it, because I've proven it. And that's what we want to change. And I won't get much longer, but I did want to finish, because I've been asked to stay short, with two sentences, especially for two Members who have responsibility for the government of the State. Mr. Moreno would like to say that his only problem is to wear down the government. In a tragic moment they have decided never to help in anything. And to the lady of Ribes, I would like to say that to do politics with the situations that we have experienced in hospitals and residences is something that people, regardless of the party they vote, do not understand. And after I say these two sentences, I'll tell them they're not mine. I'll tell you that the phrase I said to Mr. Moreno is a phrase from Vice President Carmen Calvo, of June 24, in parliamentary debate, about the same thing we're talking about. And to Mrs Ribas, which is a phrase from Vice President Pablo Iglesias. And this shows one reality: that when you have the responsibility you have one message, and when you are at the opposition you have another. And I think if I were... I'd worry about you, this dissonance of messages, and I'd worry about this look, because the message that your officials give at the level of the State of... with a situation like this, we try to do it, not give it. And I think... And I wanted to end these sentences of two of your officials from the state government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. And now there's the words of the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.34.0	Well, I will also try to be brief to answer some questions that have not been answered by Councillor El Homrani, and that I feel fully identified, therefore, with the words that he has transmitted in this reply to Parliament on the Ple of Residences, that it must be a ple sera, and that to me he knows hard that on the part of the first opposition party, right? That they always say, therefore, is come here, sincerely, not to honor the people we are talking about, nor the public service we are talking about, nor the efforts of the professionals we are talking about. Do they really think that the solution that this coronavirus has been to the residents, that the most vulnerable people have been hit, is the Spanish army? Really? Really? Pretty frivolated, and please. Between this, the mayor of the PSC of Sant Andreu de la Barca and his evil done with magic with the Civil Guard Pavello..., because that is so and you have also recognized it on some occasion. So I knew we looked at it all, and we never said anything but nothing, and the counselor told us. And they made disinfections. And we talked with the ministry, yes, about the possibility of having healthcare professionals coming from avenging: coming from Cuba, coming from the Xina, coming from the army, and the only one that is offered is a ship to the port of Barcelona completely disconnected from the healthcare system, which obviously still assumed a much more important workload. We didn't have any space problems in our hospitals, we'd already sprung. If there were hands and I could make them available, then, if not, it was not the solution. But, obviously, it seems to me that it frivolizes like this and that on the part of three political groups: « ONE, ONE, ONE, ONE, in a plethora of residences– in a plethora of residences–, man, it's already good– it's already good. They were for, they were for many people, and you said, "By..., take over the kingdoms. So it seems to me that we've taken over the kingdoms and we've taken over the full and we've taken on this responsibility of everything, we also have to intervene, we'll have to answer before the prosecution of a lot of things, and there's the government of Catalonia. And I think you can say a lot of things, but you've been there and you've obviously been next to people... I'm sure Catalans and Catalans feel more secure. And, besides, we wanted to explain what there was, the absolute reality, transparency, tell everything. Sometimes the days when we don't like it and we don't like it when we're talking about people, and we have to do it and we have to go out in the faristols to explain the names of people who are dying, while other communities that, by the way, govern PP and Ciutadan also, Congresswoman Roldán, hide data from deaths of residents so as not to harm the economic interests of businesses. Because I also know I'm holding headlines, because if we're holding headlines, we're going like this, and I don't think it's supposed to be that way either. The PSC. You say, "No one command or re-centralisation, there was an order from the ministry. Yes, thirteen days later it started and started all the protocols also between the Department of Social Affairs and the Department of Health. And how would they do it from the State if they didn't, how would they do it from the State? If you have said so: "They have all the competitions. We have all the competitions. But also the pass that was made to him by Councilman El Homrani. We have given all responsibility to the people, that's what I've always said, is the "attached and well bound of the Spanish State. All the responsibilities, which we assume with the Government of Catalonia all of them: greeting, education, social matters, safety and security, have been exhausted. In the Spanish State, only pensions remain, which, moreover, go another way; now, finance, when we talk about finance, is síula. And it's not an angry song, it's explaining the pure reality: we have all responsibility and we've taken all responsibility. Not now, in the crisis, but during all these years, because we have cregued and this Parliament has mostly cregued in governance, in self-government, in decisions here, and, moreover, shared with all administrations. But, of course, we need to be fair when we talk, and it seems to me that Councillor El Homrani has also made it very clear, and the example of the Law of Personal Autonomy and Dependency is not a great example, which he sets out. One thing I do not accept: to say that there have been no general derivations is to criminalise professionals directly, MP. ‘Clinical criteria,' he said. And he's a professional, not a health counselor, not a determined servant. We can only make ethical considerations for decision making, and it is the only one made by the Department of Health – the only one – to help decision making at a time of exhilarating uncertainty, where professionals would actually have to keep up-to-date and give answers, and also in residences. And that I'm setting an example, so that a person calls their private mutual because the derivative doesn't know where, I don't think it's clear as an example. Four thousand and five hundred transfers have been made to hospitals and socio-sanitaries. Therefore, no criteria or orders. And when we also talk about modeling, I share a lot of the words of Councillor El Homrani when he said that this Parliament can vote things or make things happen; it is the legislative chamber of Catalonia, it is our legislative chamber, let us use it as such to win rights, to advance and why these proposals for the future that we also carry from the government can pull forward. Otherwise, it's useless politics in the face of citizenry – useless politics in the face of citizenry. I thank Congresswoman Ribas for explaining that the cause of everything was a virus, because – I said this – in many interventions gave the feeling, therefore, that the cause was ourselves, that we did not want to do well. The cause was a virus, a virus that in the residencies, when it entered, caused damage – I said it once – in the sense that it was very difficult to control, very difficult that you did not enter, especially in the initial moments. When we were willing to be able to prove, to be able to sectorize, to be able to protect those residents, therefore, who did not have any case, then, we were able to manage much better. It's true, residents have the necessary ingredients because this virus makes them their own: concentration of vulnerable people and spaces that are not prepared for this crisis. But I ask myself: what space could be prepared for a crisis of this magnitude? We've done absolutely everything, and, as counsel El Homrani has said, I don't think it's time to enter, either, in discord of what some have done, what others have done, because it seems to me that I share it and I've talked to many advisors from other territories – everyone, with the best will and with the most work and intensity, have tried to do what they can and more. But it's true that the organization, as it is, tries to centralize in the EPIs... You said: "Why didn't they prioritize all the residences and not just those that had positive cases? Precisely this, at a time when there is no EPIs, is to prioritize – it is to prioritize. We couldn't get him out of a hospital to put him in a residence that, fortunately, had no positive cases. And there have been many who have not had a positive case, by luck, and who are equipped, today, with protective material for themselves in some case in some positive case. Mr Vidal Aragonés, the deputy Aragonés, has also asked me to respect the residential care team, specifically from Mutuam. I said in my intervention that the situation of primary care in residents before Covid was not homogeneous, it was heterogeneous in the territory, with different behaviour in rural and semi-urban areas, and where, in urban areas, this contact was lost. And he lost on a few dates, which is 2011, and he lost to creating specialized residential care teams. And I don't say they're hurt, huh? I mean, putting teams specialising in residences, like we have other support teams, it's not bad. What's counter-productive is that then I lost touch with the primary, obviously. And that's what happened in 2011. And it was done, therefore, with decisions of the governments of the students, of Convergence and Union and of the People's Party. And that's it. Therefore, what we found ourselves doing, with three teams – EAR – in the West Valley, in the East Valley, in the South Metropolitan and, above all, in the city of Barcelona, made the primary stay out and lost this contact with residential care. In this crisis, what happened? So, as all teams had to withdraw professionals, they didn't get to everything they had assigned, and, therefore, the primary school started to take over the city of Barcelona as well as other places, so, attention in these residencies, and created a normal initial discomfort – normal – given the situation, because it was an unfair and unexpected situation. That said, when there was this in that legislature, in the next legislature that we enter here, the first motion to the Parliament of Catalonia on salvation, with an inquiry to Boi Ruiz, was to point, to point, to contract for a primary care team to Eulen – to point, to point. And we got to put up with it. He's been hanging on all this time. And we're the only one that we've worked on are tools – tools – and one of the main tools is the law of service contracts for people, so that doesn't happen. Because you serve people basics, because the CAP seemed inconceivable to us that a white coat of nurse, midwife, then here, instead of saying "Catalunya Health System" said "Eulen; it seemed inconceivable to us, and we kept it. What do we prioritize? Being brave also in this Parliament, and approving laws that guarantee that serving people has this look, public service look, absolutely social look. When the People's Party spoke, it said that... I seemed to be taking things from my intervention, and I thought, "Oh, man, they said we had a war, a post-war and a different crisis. So, you left me, I think a pretty dry period, don't you? From history, I think he left it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But yes, we have... yes, we have been betting on this health care for residents, with nine hundred chocolates or oxygen concentrates in more than four hundred residential centers. That's what we did, 4,500 transfers, which you also told me. So, yeah, we've been there. And I also appreciate, therefore, the support of the parliamentary groups of Republican Esquerra – the Republican Parliamentary Group – and of Junts per Catalunya; the understanding of what it is to manage in these complex weeks; try to do so. I believe that here we who are in the Government have made it very clear that this is an epidemic that is not the door to the health system nor the Government of the Government of Catalonia. We have tried to keep the most in touch with the local world, with the municipalities, with meetings every week with different health regions, with different sectors of society – that of residents is not one –, with multiple meetings to explain how we progressed, what concerns there were, gathering doubts, working in the band, agreeing plans, moving forward. And all this I think is part of the answer that we need to have before the epidemic, that it must be a response from all of society, and that is why we make it very clear: let us all get involved there and start, please, from this Parliament. We follow the basic measures and try between the whole society to collaborate with these professionals, these magnificient professionals of the residences, who have been taking care of our great people and professionals of the Health System of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word, in this block of the Government, the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.36.0	Thank you, President. Very quick, but I'd like to tell you four things. First of all, thank Councilwoman Vergés and Councillor El Homrani for today's presentation: transparent, clear, with all the data. Listen, it's a real pride to have shared such complicated and complicated days with you, and that you've come out here today to explain this moment that we've been living folded. I already know that personal issues should not matter to us too much, but I would like to remind you that Councillor El Homrani suffered the coronavirus and was working every day. I would like to remind you that Vice President Aragonès suffered the coronavirus was working every day. I'd like to remind you that Councilwoman Vergés had her family in Igualada and she worked every day. I know it has a very relative importance, huh? But it is also important to note that in those days of darkness, in those hours of darkness, here we left our hair; all of them. We left our hair there, we gave our face at every moment – at every moment. You, Mr. Ribas, have made a little joke about being called and so on. Listen, me, every week... it's the toughest meetings of my life. Every week we held meetings with the residents' employers. I can assure them that they are the hardest meetings I've ever had in my life. Can anyone imagine what it means for us, that we have these responsibilities, that we tell ourselves the situation in which every day we went to see that they were breeding the dead? Can anyone really think that we live at that good time, as if you don't affect us personally? It's just that I think you're important. I'll tell you what to say. And I have to tell the MP of the PSC that, listen to me, if something we have not done – if something we have not done – it is to take advantage of the management of this pandemic to make independent politics. It's just that I don't take it out of the way. I don't accept it at all. We only had one objective, I assure you – I assure you – that it was to save lives and worry about the welfare of the society of all Catalans. We've only had this concern. [[Greetings.]] And this will continue to feel our concern. Today more than ever, with Lleida and Segrià – said Josep Maria Forné, who is now patenting throughout the family – and with all the companies and companies, of the group that follow, that you have issues with Lleida or that you know people in Lleida and Segrià. So it's true. Can you imagine what it is again representing for the Government of Catalonia to know that we have an outbreak that worries us, and that we will see again, so some figures that we thought we would never want to see? So that affects us, and that... I would also like to say that at this point in time the Government of Catalonia has no other priority than Lleida and Segria; it has no other priority than this. Because we're back in a situation that worries us, that we're managing it with all the serenity of the world, because it's not the situation that we've been in, but it's a few figures that worry us, certainly. And, therefore, we focus again on Lleida and Segria, because always – this I can assure all of you, Members of this House and Members of this House – always, our objective, our priority, will always be the life and salvation of people. Always, at all times. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.37.0	We are now opening a round of interventions by parliamentary groups and sub-groups, for a maximum of two minutes for the group, and five for the sub-group. I, in the first place, have the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mrs Lorena Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.38.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Torra, you said that you have suffered a lot with this crisis, and of course you have suffered a lot, I do not question that, Mr. Torra. Contrary to you, who are committed to calling us "inhumans whom we do not think like you." [[remorse of the voice]] We don't think that. So yes, you have suffered a great deal, just as you have suffered the Catalans, just as you have suffered the whole world. I insist that this is a crisis that has affected everyone. And Mr. Forné told me that, well, you don't have the whole truth, and I agree, and that you have to make an effort to recognize it. And yes, I have said it on several occasions already during my intervention – and not only in this intervention, but also in these very complicated months – that this crisis has not been easy, and I repeat it here again now. And no government, none, has had the magic wand to know how to act during this crisis, and mistakes have been made in so many places, in so many autonomous communities, at the level of the Government of Spain... It is a crisis that has escaped from our borders, it is a global pandemic, and therefore from here I say it again: we have made many mistakes, all of them, and we have paid them very dearly, losing the most valuable thing, which is the life of thousands and thousands of citizens. And that's why we have to be critical, and that's why we have to point out the mistakes that have been made so that they don't happen again, so that, if, in a few months' time, as health experts are alerting us, we have again here, no longer a rebound, but a new wave of contagion, not to make those same mistakes again. And, Mr Torra, I feel that you did not like what we have done here today, the criticisms we have done here today, but it is that I today have not made judgments of value, I have merely described the wrong decisions that you have made and made at a certain time. Therefore, perhaps what needs to be done is to reflect on those decisions and not to make them again. The Councillor El Homrani also said that, well, who liked the tone, did not like the content; something is something, we have progressed there a bit. But I insist again: I am sorry that I was harsh in my speech. I wish I hadn't had to make any criticism. I wish there were no mistakes. But I say this again: they have been committed, and therefore we, the opposition, have an obligation to point out those mistakes, not to look for Turkish heads – I have also said this in my speech – to correct these errors. There has been a lack of coordination with the residences, and they explained this to us when we met with them. We were talking about disinfection. Look, there have been residences where you have gone to disinfect the UME, and you were talking about those acts that the UME has done in some residences. There were residences where the Generalitat was the disinfectant, there were residences where the two went, the UME on the one hand and the Generalitat on the other. And there were residences where nobody went, and they called desperate for someone to help them. And I know that mayors of all political colors, including their own, were personally calling the UME. Why? Because they needed that help, and it didn't matter where it came from. And, therefore, I insist: do not look at where this aid comes from, do not look at where the proposals come from; implement if they are good. If we need help disinfecting, preventing those contagions and that new wave and we have a military unit that is willing to do so, why not? Just that. And, really, there are a lot of Catalans who don't understand what's happened these days. You also told me that there are no military medical personnel, which we asked to be deployed. Of course there are military health units; of course, Mr. El Homrani. And I hope we don't have to use them; I hope when September, October or when, because we're already seeing the contagions here, we don't have to use them. Mrs Vergés, you called me a frivolous woman. He's accused us of frivolous. Not only to my group, he has also referred to other colleagues. It seems that when someone explains things that you don't like, then we're already frivolous. You can't deny me that you rejected that help. It's just that you rejected that help for the residences. That's right. And you yourself, besides... not only talking about residences, let's also talk about field hospitals. What happened when hospitals overflowed? Why did you not want help and even paralyze field hospitals that were already set up? They had either assembled the army in this case or even the Civil Guard, as happened in Sant Andreu de la Barca. "The government is asking to dismantle the Sabadell field hospital because it is too military. [[Widow's remorse.]] « Because it is too military, Mrs Vergés. How can you call me frivolous when you have made these decisions in the worst health crisis of this century? Please, Mrs Vergés. [[Greetings.]] Please, a little serious. A bit of seriousness and responsibility in this matter. And I'll tell you more. I don't care if you call me frivolous. I don't care, because I understand that you do because decisions as hard and as wrong as they have made during this crisis are hard to recognize. So I understand that you have to throw balloons out and accuse us of frivolous, because of course... But I also tell you, if what we have said here today – not only my group, but the rest of the groups – serves to remove a little the consciences of some and so that these wrong decisions are not repeated again, I am satisfied. And if you want to call me a frivolous, call me a frivolous one, but I will be satisfied, because we have been where it was played to be, next to the Catalans, pointing out what has been done wrong and providing solutions. Not only can we remain critical. We are also left with the solutions. And we have done so and we have demonstrated it, and we have passed on our own proposals for you to implement them. You, too, were affronting..., said now that you were saddened to see some white robes and that, in that logo, instead of coming out the logo of the Department of Salut would put« Eulen, of a private company in this case. For perhaps this same criterion should have been applied to you also with the traceability contract, because you did not want to rely on primary care professionals. You preferred to spend EUR 18 million on a private contract with functions that could perfectly do primary care. Didn't he feel sorry at the time not to see the white robes with the Generalitat logo? And what happened? For right now you have Lleida confined because you have not been able to follow the traceability. We warned him: "Trust in your own professionals, who today said that it was a shame not to see those white robes. Trust you and, above all, do not waste Catalan money on such contracts. In addition, it has been shown to have been a fiasco. It is you who have confined Lleida. They are therefore acknowledging that they have not been able to guarantee this traceability and have therefore had to close, of course, so that the contagions do not go any further. Look, we in this House today have already outlined a number of measures that we want to take forward, such as this residence prevention plan. I was telling Councillor El Homrani that it's not just a contingency plan; it's also necessary to have a contingency plan when we have the rebound, but we also need that prevention plan. For what? To minimize risks, because prevention is the most effective weapon in residences. And for this, obviously, we need resources. Resources that either have to come out of that famous reversion that you are talking about so much and that it seems that in the next few days you will see the light..., but not only that reversion of budgets that no longer serve us, but that we also need to talk about the new budgets. And I take this opportunity to ask you to start working on these new budgets, because we have no time to waste and we have to get to work. Therefore, the sooner we are prepared for those possible new waves that can come, better than better. So, please, count on us, count on the rest of the political forces, count on the social and economic actors as well. You know that I have been – and my group, of course – very critical of many of your approaches. And surely in some, for we will never agree, but I do hope that we can at least find understanding to seek the necessary resources and help the most vulnerable. Because they need us. Because the Catalans are waiting for us to jump in and get to work. And I'm asking you from here to do it. Seek that consensus with the rest of the parliamentary forces and let us work on these new budgets. If we are talking about residences, then of course we must also ensure thorough disinfection. We must prevent the virus from entering the residence again so that we do not lose control of that situation, and for that we also need massive testing of the workers. Unfortunately this is a cowardly virus. It's a cowardly virus because it has the ability to go unnoticed. And asymptomatic patients who are apparently healthy because they are the most dangerous vectors of contagion, precisely because one when it does not manifest any symptoms because perhaps it does not take all the necessary measures or does not give so much fear. Therefore, we need those tests to be able to prevent and that those workers who are in those residences can care for our elders in the necessary conditions without being a risk to those elders, and that they can also return home without the fear of being able to spread to their families, something that professionals also told us: they were very concerned about that. More measures that we are going to present in this plenary and that, in the next speech, my colleague Naomi de la Calle will explain in more detail, but we also want to recognize the work of the people who have cared for our elderly, who have given them affection while their families could not go to see them, and we are going to propose that this extraordinary gratification be extended to all professionals, regardless of the ownership of the centre, and that it be extended also to the workers of the home care service so that there are no workers of the first and second dependence, and that all be recognized and valued and economically as they deserve. And I also tell you that we don't want to forget about older people who don't live in a residence. I have spoken to you before, those people who have experienced this crisis in the harshest solitude of their homes. We also have to help them and we also have measures in this regard. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done, President. Projects of volunteering to accompany people, collaboration with the third sector, enhance teleassistance, the construction of protected floors... In short, measures that we believe will be good to prevent and also to know how to react in time if these new contagions occur. As I said in my other speech, we continue with that extended hand and that collaboration. A hand stretched out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.39.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.40.0	...to all the Catalans who are waiting for us to get going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.41.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Raúl Moreno has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.42.0	Well, thank you, President. One thing: if we're talking about residences today, it's because this Ple proposed the PSC, the commons, PP and CUP. I say this because in the realm of transparency and of wanting to explain everything that has been done, if we are in this Plenary, it is because the opposition, not all – City neither joined it–, it has made it possible that this Plenary is done. Probably, if it weren't for that, we didn't have any appearances, or Mr. Chakir's, which we've asked of Mrs. Vergés, who later did come up with, or a monographic ple to talk about this topic. I insist, it seems to me that it was absolutely necessary and obvious, that we should talk about residences. Second of all, you, president, said... he didn't like me telling him that he used the pandemic to make politics independent. It's normal that I don't like him. I remember an interview with the BBC, with the headline of "Spain doesn't confine us, when we were all locked up at home? Or did Mrs. Budo's statements say that in an independent Catalonia there would be fewer deaths? Clearly, it's the reality that I'm looking for for their own, isn't it? And if anything has demonstrated this pandemic is the need for interinstitutional collaboration to be able to look for effective solutions, and that shrinking visions often lead to inability to hold the capacity – the ability – to make the pocket as hot as it is. I believe that everyone has understood, in this case, what we have been through, that only with collaboration has it been possible to move forward. Mr. El Homrani, you said: "U.S.A. has made 143 disinfections. I think it was 208, huh? Well, I'm saying because in the end the figures can change, but it would be nice to know them. I'm saying because we don't have them. We don't know how many have been done, we don't know how much they've spent, we don't know how much material has arrived. I am aware of an aircraft that the councillor for Social Affairs and Families landed with PPE and self-protection material, etc., and put the press release: "There will be a _second plane. When I didn't see TV3 on the subject, I thought, "There was no plane. Because if there was a plane, you said TV3 or you made a press release. That's to say, I think I need to clarify, I need to clarify what this government has spent on this pandemic, and who are the resources, how many people have been derived, etc. You promised to do it in a few minutes. The information is not on the web, Mr. Vice President, it is not there. I keep going. That the communities... there are two times that you have said that to other autonomous communities there have been more deaths than in Catalonia in residences. They don't know. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, but he played with it. Hey, and it's possible, huh? If that's possible, it's just that we don't make this ple here because Catalonia is dead 4,099 people. It's like one, or twenty or thirty. The problem is that here we had to talk about the management that had been done. It's not a question that in a place there's more or less impact from the Covid. The impact that interests us as the Government of the Generality and the Parliament of Catalonia is the impact that has had in Catalonia. Therefore, it was logical that we put the focus on the action that has taken place in our country. They say: "We approve things... – Mr. Chakir – "of times we approve things that cannot be paid for. Even sometimes, you approve of them yourself. But, I'd say the tripartite, Mr. Chakir, did not lose a vote. In the Congress of Deputies, when some measure is approved, it is because the Government finds, looking for the necessary reunions to be able to pull forward its legislative initiative. In this Parliament, your government loses one_of_each_three votes. And sometimes by abstention. The Law on Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination, approved 2017? Yes, from the previous legislature. But it's the same, if in the end, let's say, the great summary is one, so I continue to think that its legislative activity from the point of view of the better of the social conditions of people in Catalonia is absolutely flawed. And he says: "No, we are convening seats with the gatherings. So much, of course. Whenever the assembly makes solar arrangement and builds the equipment. That's right. That's his responsibility. And, therefore, please ask that the Generalitat make use of its powers and its responsibility to build public residences run from Catalonia. You're telling us we have a certain dissonance, with the phrase that you dedicated to me at the end, right? , with the Vice-President of the Government, "there are disagreements in the speech. Home, fixi's, Mr. Chakir, I... who decided to withdraw his skills wasn't me, huh? He was the president of his government. And tell him he's not on condition, being part of this government to talk about dissonances. To speak of dissonances, the decisions of the segrià confinement. Are we talking about other dissonances that may exist in a government? I'm saying that because you're not the one to give lessons in dissonance. I, Mrs Vergés, some things you've said. He says: "We had no problems with space in hospitals. So, please, it was good that we could get those great people to the hospitals that needed it, because more of you keep your hair very thin, from the point of view of criticism. Miri, you said to me: "I have not just seen the example that has set me of the mutual. I could have introduced him. He's been in this Parliament all along. He didn't tell me anything about TV3's example of public residence. I'm saying that because these are just two examples of what I can put in a half-hour speech. But there are many more. I insist, there are drawings of judicial instructions opened for these and other reasons. And his responsibility would be, like at least, to investigate what happened. Because, if you deny it, I honestly don't think you've been paying attention to what the managers, families and entities told you about the country. I insist, perhaps we have experienced two types of Covids, or an impact of Covid-19 on different residences. By the way, thank you for recognizing that you've always had your health skills. It's always... it's okay to recognize this fact, even if it's a little late. He said before you also: "If the public primary... I say to you: if the public primary has receded the health conditions in the pandemic– and he did, and I said before: when it came to the residents, the thing has improved, because the professionals expected the doctors, the midwives, the CAPs from the residents to enter the residents–, why does not the issue of removing the private health care from the residents go away? You said: "This is from the year 2011, Convergence and PP. It is that there are hundreds of contracts after – hundreds of contracts after – for exactly the same services. So I'm the only one asking you to say what you think is appropriate and that's what you're saying. Mr. Sabrià was talking about the commitments to the public of the Republican Left, all public, all public. Mirin, I'd like to take advantage of this whole public thing to give you a little thought. We, like the PSC, have always defended that public-private collaboration is possible. We think that the scale must rise from the point of view of the public square offer, of public management. For those who defend that everything must be public, from the point of view of residential places, we need 2,600_million euros only to make public the residential places that we have now, not those that we need to have in the future, only those that we have now. And that's already 1,000_million more than all the assumptions that Social and Family Affairs devotes to the program of great dependent people. So here, what we need to look for is a shared solution, because the 80_per_cent of the model are places that are not in absolute public residences. So, here when you make some statements you can also think if what you're saying is something that can be done with a certain celerity, possibly from here for twenty or thirty years, so it could be possible, but not urgently. And finally, on the subject of dependence. Indeed, the State has a debt pending, not with Catalonia, with many other autonomous communities from the point of view of the financing of dependence. That's what I said by active and passive. We had the opportunity with some assumptions of being able to reverse this situation, it was not possible because some felt that it was not being adjusted. We have another chance. If you want to reverse the infra-financing for what you do to dependency issues, let's plant it. We plant it and you do the favor of trying to get the most needed. Now, I'm also telling you, those assumptions that you approved this year 2020, that would solve all the problems, it's been seen that, finally, from the residential point of view, we're exactly the same as we were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.44.0	Well, I'll be brief. President, all the recognition of the much work that has been done safely from the government. All of us, from the presidency to the last government worker, like all the people who have been from health care, from first line care in the residents or from the mayors or from the municipal governments. All the first lines in this crisis Covid, as in any other, both work and political responsibilities have obviously been hard. Sure. And they affect psychologically and, therefore, they listen, our recognition to everyone's work. Here we are, however, in a plethora which aims to assess the management that has taken place since the government of the situation of the pandemic in the residences and propose measures to improve that this situation is not repeated. This is the object of this Ple. This is what defined the approval that we did, the idea that we did four groups, two groups and two parliamentary subgroups, and the approval that this Ple had to do in these terms. And there's been bad management. I'm sure there's been some good girls, but there's been some mismanagement in the management of the Covid health crisis in the residents. There have been poorly done, poorly managed elements that have had consequences, and it is the obligation of all pleas to recognize it. It also appreciates the self-criticism that has been made in some of these elements by the government and put it in place by the opposition. I'd just miss it. Especially because, as I said, our goal here is..., the best memory we can make of the people who died in these residencies, their families as in recognition, and the people who have suffered from work in these residencies is that we bring good lessons from all over and therefore do not repeat these mistakes. "Let's get closer to saying that we have to hear that there have been some mistaken elements in the management and that there is a bad model and that, therefore, we must resolve in all these senses, immediate changes and still model changes, because the cures must not be mercantilized. The needs of people and the care of people from a commercialized business logic cannot be adequately addressed. Don't call, don't call home – at home. And, so, well, let's get these lessons. I think you can get them out of many of the sectors that have been affected by this crisis, and that it would be good if they were swallowed. We also recognize them that many things have happened in these five months and have done many things. "I've seen incredible things, we could say, even if the social and greetings are gloomy, it's coordininin, it works territorially. It seemed impossible. Not just by this government, by previous governments. It seemed like an impossible mission. The crisis also served for a few things. It also served to make it happen quickly, when there is a bad management of a residence. We have had many cases of mismanagement of residences in previous years and it has cost years and panels to open up dispatches. So now I don't leave this rhythm – I don't want to vacate stressed like in the crisis, but I don't leave this rhythm – as at least, if you please, in that urgent part, I would already need. We need to have a review and an evaluation, already, of five concrete elements of management have failed, from a more technical assessment, not the policy that we can do from here to Parliament, but also five elements have served to improve and which have worked. I think it would be urgent and necessary to have this assessment. As a parliamentary group, we will propose this, because from this assessment many lessons and many things can come out in the future. Among other things, it is possible to have, from this type of independent and agile assessments, indicators to be able to say: "There have been managers who have especially poorly managed the residences and to be able to open them a shipment with objective elements of valuation. It would be good if we did not lose the rhythm of what has been done so far. It would be good if these residences in which it is considered that managers should not continue to be able to recover from public management, and that we have the tool to be able to manage directly. I'd be fine, and that should be done now, with a certain celerity. It would be good to be able to improve staff ratios and working conditions already. I'm sure the counselor is willing. We ask him to go on now, because the best recognition we can do to this staff is that he is passed on to this usual stress that they had by volume of work and at the same time that the conditions of work are better. And it would be well, she advises, that the residential care teams, if we are so clear that it is not the way– of outsourcing and, moreover, mercantilized–, we eliminate them– we eliminate them. He's got to get back to primary school. The residences are the home of the people who live in these residences, and a dependent person but who is home-based is home-based for the public health system, for primary care and for the specialist when they need it. So the people of the residences too. They have a specificity and will need sufficient reinforcements, but it has to be people who are linked to the primary care team, counsel. You can't pull the bond again. You said it, we close it and, in this sense, we will also make proposals. I ended up with words of others, in this case, I think they are a fantastic summary of which, for us, we should get out of this House and in which we then approve the resolutions. It is the subject of an article by the Secretary General of the Health Federation and the Secretary General of Pensioners and Jubilees of Workers' Commissions, in both cases, during the pandemic. An article in which they say: "We call for public management and freedom of expression in this sector. We demand that the necessary resources be devoted, that the facilities be adequate, that the will of the great people be taken into account. We demand fair working conditions and prevention measures and sufficient risks for the people who care for them. If he had done it when he was playing, he would have been relieved of much pain, much injustice and much curse. The current situation is responsible, more than the virus. These people, who have been patenting this for many years – because these demands have been passed on to us in Parliament for many years, and now these years of desirousness have come to feel abandoned – I think they deserve, at least, these themes listed solve them in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.45.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.46.0	They'll let me start my intervention with two promises I don't think we should do. First of all, we don't have to argue about whether or not there are any Members or Members who may not suffer... we don't have to deny any of this. Any Member of the European Parliament or Member of the European Parliament shall be of the political force that he or she is, of course, able to suffer. We're not discussing this. In fact, I can't just feel it, and I can't even estimate it. And we make this recognition, all of us. And not from a humanist point of view, certainly from a purely scientific point of view. And the second question, in the same sense, and we're worried. Only it would be lacking that President Torra could not make independent politics, just as the main opposition group could make unionist and liberal politics, just as the others could make the policy that we consider appropriate. Considering, you're claiming the anti-politics of those we're political representatives, and that's usually the front line of those that's politically located in the facsimile. And, therefore, no problem that anyone can do politics. The problem is when we don't give solutions, not the fact that we do one type of policy or another. To continue with the intervention, Councillor El Homrani, we would very much like to thank him for the answer he gave us, among other things, because we are not used to him giving us answers. We want to say: in this legislature, with those we have shared commissions, you give, fifteen questions, an answer, and that's the maximum. And, therefore, today's rate was very high. And we want to thank you with concern, because, if this Member and his parliamentary subgroup did not get it wrong, what you wanted to recognize is that there is a vice-President of the Spanish Government who promises that there will be a material here and then not above; that this, in the band, generates a ten-day delay in the material, and obviously this Member did not know until today. And it's not a toilet for the counselor; instead, it's a recon. And we are concerned that this has been a reality. And at the conjunct of Members or Members of this House, as far as the political force is concerned, I would have to worry them if that had happened – that we did not question it and, moreover, we imagined it. Counselor Vergés, we can't do it the same gracefully, and we've enjoyed it. And let's explain why. When you give us the answer about Mutuam..., miri, 2012, which is the date you refer to, from that inquiry; we are at 2020, eight years later, with different responsibilities in the Health Council and, therefore, do not serve us. But what we need less is the example that you have set for us, which is to sweep at a certain time the Bill to serve people with Mutual. Example you've put in. Go find out where the contest and the award was in Mutuam in 2011, because this parliamentary subgroup did not find it, and surely no Members and Members that we are in this room will find it, because it did not exist. It was not a contract award problem because there was neither competition nor competition. That's how it worked. That is why we must tell you that, obviously, we cannot be happy with the answer they have given us, because it is about another reality. We also need to convey, with all kinds of respect, a certain confusion that generates the groups of the government, and even from some of the same groups that form the government, in relation to what is its project for residences. What's his project? Public 100_per_cent? 100_per_cent public, but is private management very good? 100_per_cent public, it's very good private management, but do we want to take care of a little more the third sector? Look, they have to tell us, after the crisis we've had, what's his model, because it seemed to us, obviously, that you weren't giving us an answer from where you were going. And if we need it... it's politics and answers. And if, of course, you are for the hundred_per_cent public, you will be voting in favour of a resolution proposal from this group where you suggest that when the contracts are concluded we will internalize all the residences, because, if not, they will not be. But, mirin, we are not sectarians or sectarians. We make proposals so that it is one hundred_per_cent public, but we also make proposals for when this solution has not yet arrived. And, therefore, if they are concerned about the quality of the management, they will also vote in favour of a reality for which we have essential clauses and that the management of the contract is recovered when there are incompliments, which is practically what cannot be done now. And, obviously, if they are even more concerned about the situation of large people's residences, they will also vote for us in favour of workers covering 1,200_euros, so that we are denouncing all of us here today; that the EARs are over, that it will be another vote that we raise, or that we increase the rates. We'll have a vote, we'll have a vote. Those who didn't make assumptions may make them sell; they'll be fine, because they'll help us move forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mrs Esperanza García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.48.0	MPs, MPs, President, Councillors, Mirin, this specific Ple was not to deny the magnitude of the incidence of the Covid pandemic. I don't think anyone denied it, and it seemed to me about the response and the response of the advisors who hinted at this reality. No one denies it, that, neither the complexity of the treatment, nor the mortality of the pandemic, nor the ease of infection, nor much less. Now, they're trying to analyze that the system's deficiencies have been discovered, and there's also a lack of efficiency in the management. This does not mean either personal attacks or short-run partisan toilets; nor does the proximity of possible elections or the election timetable justify the need for this plenary and this specific plenary, but the fact that we still have the most fragile people, that they are the great people who are living in large numbers of handicaps, as has been said from this Faristol, in a situation of maximum vulnerability, because the alert and the health threat still persist. And I think it would be cheating on us alone, with these excuses so poor of argument. We are all parliamentary groups here not only to criticize, obviously, as it should not be in any other way, because there are obvious errors, to the Government, but also to propose alternatives, to improve with proposals. Perhaps not all are exactly government criteria, but some may be able to benefit. That said, of course, I cannot say that the reply of Mrs Vergés satisfied me, because, frankly, Mrs Vergés, I believe that she was poor and, moreover, insidious, and even with a sense of ironic, sincere, sense of humour. First, out of ignorance, then out of need, and then because, well, you, of my family don't know absolutely nothing about the rule, do you? But, go on, very poor arguments. And I would have expected me, as you have done with other parliamentary groups, a criticism a little more... a criticism that I can hear, huh? Maybe, if she didn't agree with some argument, more formed, more realistic, more serious, and more honest, that's what everybody's said before about this Faristol. To advance and try to improve the situation of this struggle against the Covid with honesty and joy. That said, do you think the family members who have lost members and their great minds? Do they lie to residential centers that they haven't had an opportunity to move people who were infected with Covid to hospital centers? I don't think so. Perhaps recognizing that the hospitals were collapsing would be a first step. Try to improve; if there were collapses, alternative measures, which is what we have said since this Faristol. In no case can there be any insidiousness about those people who have lost their family. They've seen each other unsavory. It was a generalised situation. They all share the same vision. It can't be that the government is the only one who can't see this reality that has happened. No one, no parliamentary group is in possession of the truth– said Mr Forné, and I totally agree–, and certainly no one is more in possession of the truth than another, but with the help of everyone I believe can improve the tools, the use of resources and the reaction of a system that has clearly shown its shortcomings, of a government management that has not been good, and therefore is not good in complacency, in self-complacency. That's what Mr. Torra said a few days ago. So, you're squandering on this self-congratulation. We will do what we have always done, with the consistency that I always believe we have demonstrated and with the seriousness that we have shown on this assumption, and that it is better to propose. Perhaps some are already included in the contingency plan that you presented yesterday. Welcome back. It's positive, it's fine, but maybe it can get better. And I ask them to be generous and to think neither of electoral times nor of party issues. They're still following the alarm and the threat well alive. Our opinions, our great people are the most fragile, that they do not return to pay the price of a little generous look at a question they do not understand of ideologies, and it is defending life with all the resources we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.50.0	Thank you, President. I'm starting with the president, because I think when he took care of the personal situation of each of the people in charge, he left one, because he also suffered the coronavirus, and he was at the end of the dog every day and we want to thank him from here. [[Greetings.]] I also want to thank the advisors who are very transparent today. What we've been through has never been seen, and no one was prepared, and we're sure it didn't happen perfectly, maybe it didn't even do so well in the world. And today's bravery and they've had it in time to explain themselves, and I want to thank them too. I'm sure we've all failed somehow, but today what we're proposing, what we're asking is a long look, as Raül Romeva always says. Look forward and build the model together, from consensus and from the board, as far as we can. Today, we have put our proposal on the table: to strengthen the public sector, to promote personal autonomy, the home service, the zero mileage, to ensure social care, but also health care, coordination; it is our proposal, very, very, very summarized, which looks to the north of Europe as a reference, but we pose it on the table of everyone to weave consensus and understanding, because I believe, sincerely, that it is what the people ask of us. This means a change: putting the public sector on the ground, ending privatisations, working together with the third sector. That means no more Eulen, no more Eulen at the top. But to do this, it takes courage and less politics; it's to change what's happened over the last forty years. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Do you? The success that supposes a better of the levels of life fruit of the medical adventures, of healthy habits, of the socio-economic conditions better have allowed people to live more and more and reach more advanced ages. It is a success as a society that is especially evident in our home, where life expectancy is very high. But this now supposes a new health and social front of the first magnitude and the Covid has put the system to the test and has made it clear that it is necessary to rethink it, because despite the fact that everyone has given it everything, there is not enough. The Covid must serve, it must be the best learning of the weak of all folds. We have a contingency plan, but we also have a new longer model: more public sector, faster, more agile, shorter terms, less bureaucratic, without neglecting taxation and permanent control. Therefore, it is now up to us to define the model, to legislate, to build it and to invest it also at the level that it is close to. It's the path we propose. In short, work, work and work to improve. And let me make a quick respite of the different parliamentary groups. Very quick. Citizens, lots of mud, Mrs. Roldán. It's usual, subjecting salvation to trial and cheating, and they don't surprise us anymore. But today, as the Vergés Councillor said, he has remained too strong and too frivolous. They don't have arguments or plans, they've grown small and try to use people's pain to do politics, manipulate, and that's morally low for us. And I still know it's hard for anyone to be so cynical, but now they don't surprise us at all. And he said this – and I suppose he will not surprise people either –, we will never give up our political project, we will never give up making this country's independence, we will not give up putting up with repression, which has not stopped during the Covid. We will not give up until we achieve our goal. And that's not why the Covid is no longer our top priority today. The Socialists, and very briefly. Recentralisation, unwillingness to cooperate have done much wrong – very bad – and coming here to deny it is not worthy of a government party. We're used to it. The centralization of purchases is key to hearing the situation and cannot deny it, as it is the more than 3,500_million that you give the State of the Law of Dependence. Where would we be now with 3,500 more? So, look, no one can know where we would be, but it's obvious that the situation wouldn't be the same. And, in change, go here to talk about the debt with the entities; the mother of God, Mr. Moreno, pay first what they owe. And enough with the UME, less military to the press wheels, less military to the streets, less military spending – 20,050_millions a year 2019 –, more paying the debts. Menys military spending and more social spending. If the money didn't invest it in tanks and on social issues, we wouldn't be talking about the UME. But then the game wouldn't work for him because he would have dropped the argument. And finally, Mr. Moreno, thank you for pointing out your model; you did, and I honestly believe that there are some coincidences, but I'm afraid that at the time of truth it's more dedicated to politics. But anyway, it's a good start to talk about it or try, and we are. And, by the way, two planes: first purchase, arrived on March 29, cost 1,69_million and carried 550,000 protection items. Second purchase, land on April 7, 5_millions, 4.4_millions of individual protection elements. Detailed press release on both things on two days. He hasn't tried very hard to find it. I to the common. Mrs Ribas gave me a little bit of the same thing as the Socialists: you don't really feel like cheating on the competitions, if you don't have them all, it doesn't work. If you don't have them all about salvation, and you don't have them all about buying material, you don't have full skills; you don't have them. And, Mrs Ribas, it's not a matter of sympathy. You can be very nice, but you are the political representative of a lot of people and your obligation is to be there, to work for all of them. Do you want the list of governors, deputies of Esquerra, of Junts per Catalunya, socialists, of their own party who have not stopped shattering their faces? I don't think we need it from each other, but we don't need to go hot to the pit, because I think we're all here – we're all here – for our willingness to serve, because we're all public representatives. And congratulations on the new game too – don't go down, but I think congratulations are always fine. What I think is not so good is getting into this room and, in a situation where so many people have suffered, coming here to talk about the wills. And, look, one came to my head from the will: the Will of Initiative, which I assume the Pension Box keeps at the expense of the party's debt. Yeah? I suppose. And Mr. Vidal Aragonese, we've seen him very slow and we're an aggressed hair, but he's unmarked by a law that allows him not only to extinguish contracts, but he also predicts that businesses can never again present themselves in a public contest. Let us say to him « Eulen another time. So now it's rare that I ask for legislation that in a 90_per_cent collects this contract law, and I know it doesn't like it, but in a 90_per_cent collects the contract law, but they didn't want to work it. They focused on setting up a campaign... and today, at some point, instead of the Aragonese law, I thought we were talking about the Aragonese Vidal law. And I say it in color: I think we had an opportunity there, I think we would have been saved a lot, or we could be removed from there a lot of the situations that have occurred. In any case, I don't know, I went back to hoa rumiar another time, because I think we had an opportunity. I'm done. We still have an opportunity to take advantage of this Ple, to build, to advance for a quick response better and, therefore, for a short response, for a contingency plan, but also for a public model of the future. We've got until we sell. I think it's worth taking advantage of and that they owe it to the citizen of this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Josep Maria Forné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.52.0	Well, thank you, President. I won't use a couple of minutes, and I'll just... point out some ideas. I do not know whether humanistic or scientific, but emotions are important, and therefore putting them together in a political debate seems to me to be important. Therefore, I would like to thank the President's words of thanks, the very Honourable President Torra, and also the words of thanks of the Sabria deputy referring to President Torra who, logically, could not please them, but in this case, to put the emotions also on the table, and not to question, therefore, the good feelings, the personal disposition of each, but to make it appear to me that it is good, and therefore I would like to thank him here. Also thank these weekly meetings, because we have been having meetings with the whole sector, with the whole resident sector, periodically, and they have been very grateful to us. And they told us that there have been very hard meetings, because there have been times of many tensions – there have been times of many tensions – and they thank you very much, that you have been there, at the very least of the dog. Because – I said this – the words cure, the follow-up also cures. Sometimes, when it doesn't get any more, so at least it's a lot. Therefore, thanks to all you have been – counselors, president – and to all..., which, of course, from your groups, from your responsibilities, all the Members have been at the side of the entities, of the residences, of the personal situations that you have accompanied. Politics with residences isn't a bad thing. In fact, Aristotle says that it is the noblest activity we can have, politics; ethics is very noble, but politics is still on top. Because ethics, somehow, would look for one's good, would end up getting into one's good, but it's that politics isn't that good of one, but it's multiplied, for the sake of everyone, and so this is a very noble activity. To do politics with residences is fine; to do partyism, no. What's the difference? Politics, in a way, would seek the common good, and partyism would only seek the interest of the party, of the organization. So, what we do in politics and that we each defend from our party options the visit... and that this results in a common good, I think we don't have to congratulate each other and that here we have to look to get the approval of the motions for resolution. In fact, a parliament like this, in which we have to finish looking for balance..., and the Aragonese deputy said that he was making proposals for a resolution that would aim to get support. Some of us are already anticipating that we will support it: that of looking at the economic and professional conditions, of staff thanks, so we will be in this... No, logically, in those I understand that everything is to be public; we understand that public-private collaboration brings flexibility, brings innovation capacity, brings progress; therefore, in these, no. But that's politics, just getting some majorities or others in order to try a common good. And we'll find each other here. And our proposals for a resolution, modestly, go in this line, to make, say, a political proposal from our option, but trying to seek the common good. To go through with it. "Residences are very important. We have to think about the model to come, but we have to act now, we have to act on the residences, we have said it before, but we have to think about a model that we would like you not to be circumscribed to the residences, but it was a model that makes you think about the attention of the long-term. And the long-lived attention means that we have to get the people we've now expanded, for the sake of our aging, the hope of life and we've managed to get the person who was leading us to death now not, even though it's a chronification..., that has a continuity. And not necessarily this aging and this chronification – not necessarily – has to pass only through the institutional model of residences. Home care is an element that needs to be on the table and we need to use it as an economic growth element. Social attention and technological application, the application of artificial intelligence in this cure will be essential, and this will be economic progress. And here they have to invest. Those who say, "Well, well, that's a long way to go, like the steps we have to take right now are steps to give immediate response, and that it's not going to repeat some of the situations that have been repeated, but that go straight in a line that after that doesn't make it difficult, because at the top and bottom of the current public and private situations that we find ourselves in today's residencies respond to a history that doesn't yet see the case of models, huh? That we've had before. And surely, if this has now expired, then what we have to do is review it to advance to a society with a political activity that seeks the common good. And there we'll find each other. We consider, and we do not want to hurt you any more, that the loss of the opportunity to have a law of contracts as we had worked it is a mistake, but we are already, and we are of... The price cannot take precedence in the attention of people, but the quality. And that, even though we defend public-private collaboration, is clear: quality, people's attention must be at the centre of our work. That is why we believe that the motions for resolutions and those which we approve must be put to the vote. All right, all right, And now we have a political activity to negotiate, and that's what we commend these two coming days. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-07-5701.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and I am sure that, in accordance with the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau on Tuesday, the subsequent motions for resolutions will be dealt with as follows: the deadline for submitting motions for resolutions is until later than two in the afternoon; the qualification and communication of parliamentary groups and sub-groups of proposals admitted to the Bureau will be 30 minutes later; the deadline for submitting compromise proposals will be until two out of four. [[remorse of the voice]] – If you don't listen to me, perhaps later... – and the presentation and voting of the motions for resolutions will be held in the morning. Now, let's suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
