ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.1.0	Good morning to everyone, MPs, MPs. Let us begin this session with a single item on the agenda, which, in accordance with Rule 78.2 and 156.1 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall do in this plenary, which is convened in an extraordinary manner at the request of the President of the Generality. [[Debate on the political situation created by the crisis of the Spanish monarchy]] [[255-00016/12]] The debate we have today will be governed by Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence of the different parliamentary groups. The debate on the political situation created by the crisis of the Spanish monarchy begins with the intervention, first of all, of the President of the Generality. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.2.0	Good morning to everyone, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who also listened to us from home. Let me start with the news, the excellent news, that we have just met the whole country, and it is that Belgium has rejected the extradition of Councillor Puig for lack of Supreme Court competition, that is, that it is neither competent nor able to judge him. And if the Supreme Court is not competent to judge the Puig Councillor, it is not competent to judge the others. [[Greetings.]] We have said since the first moment: this was a farce court, that the Supreme Court was neither competent nor legitimate. And we've also said one thing since the first moment: that the only way we had the independents to find justice was by going to Europe. That is why, as Councillor Puig also asked, we are asking for the nullity of this farce trial, the immediate release of political prisoners and the return of exiles and amnesty for all reprisals and persecutions for this general cause against the independence that Europe has laid to the discovery once more. Congratulations, Counsellor Puig; congratulations. Benvolguts, I have asked to celebrate this specific Ple on the difficult crisis that the Spanish monarchy is going through, and, therefore, the Spanish institutional system, which has culminated, for the time being, with the escape of Juan Carlos de Borbó before the investigations on the difficult cases of corruption starring him and which presumably could have benefited the current monarch Felipe VI. The democratic institution should not look at another band when it produces such a difficult fact, of the dimensions of this level. The Spanish citizenry, and also the Catalan one, is not worthy of this scandal or this ridiculous international scale. There is no higher interest than to justify looking at another gang when a family that has lived and still lives with all the privileges that we can imagine bring the trust of the citizens in this way. Neither the Spanish government nor the Spanish justice system should have allowed what has happened. It's very hard– in fact, it's serious–, and I can't understand that the PSOE government, we can and do agree with the runaway, the bargain, the ease and, finally, the beneixin and the publicly cover-up without a hint of shame. Four days later, we still don't know where Joan Carles is. The ABC today says that the first flight was from Vigo to Abu Dhabi, which fits perfectly, therefore, with the friendship that Juan Carlos had in these countries. But it turns out, according to this information, that the flight plan was altered; it turns out there were escorts. Did the Spanish government know? Who's gonna alter the flight route? Who's paying these expenses? It's true that we've heard some skirmishes on Twitter from political parties that support the Spanish government, I insist, but when it's government and if it's government is responsible for the government's actions and can assume them and give the right answer. I recall that the responsibility of governments is solid, of all its members, and that is why, in my view, the only responsible protest that citizens would understand is that all those members of the Spanish Government who disagree with what they immediately resigned. This is certainly one of the clearest problems we need to address in Catalonia. Because sometimes we talk about friendly governments in Spain when there are governments that self-identify progressives. And it is precisely when there are these governments that intend to justify some of the greatest scandals of Spanish nationalism, with the idea that the PP and the right is always much worse, and in the end, given what we have seen, it is always a question of giving the same answer in which it refers to the right to self-determination of Catalonia or the democratic demand before the monarchy. It begins by preventing commissions of investigation and ending the night flight of a monarch investigated for a case of unusual corruption. As I said, I asked for the call of this specific Ple because we can't keep quiet before a scandal of this size, the Democrats can't shut up. We feel compromised for a civic deure, for a political ethic. Because it's not about an anecdote, an exception, but because it puts the same system in front of the Mirall: the Bourbon rule restored for Franco. And I'm very deeply sorry that this feeling is only expressed in this chamber and reigns the silence of the State. Why is the question we need to ask ourselves is, where are the Spanish Republicans? Why are the independenceists sure we are, but where are the Spanish Republicans? I insist. So precisely one of the reasons why we are here today and can speak freely in this chamber, where we can talk about everything and vote for what this Parliament decides, is that we are fully aware of how the transition from the franchise to the Bourbon monarchy took place. We know the history of our country and we know perfectly well which is the infamous relationship of the Bourbons with Catalonia – in fact, the current monarch bears the name of Philip VI, successor to Philip V, of whom the Catalans keep rather painful records. Some consider that Juan Carlos' paper served to make the transition to democracy possible. I do not think or have ever thought about it: neither transition, nor genuine democracy, and, in change, if impunity for privileges, corruption tolerated by the head of State, the deep state serving the interests of the powerful and the status quo, and completing perfectly what Franco asked before he died: "I only ask him to preserve the unity of Spain." The sentence of the Statute broke that one with little fangs of the constitutional pact. The general cause against independence has crushed it and Juan Carlos's escape simply opens it in the deepest of the very foundation on which it is constituted and recognizes the Spanish State. From this break-up, no village or nation can feel compelled to maintain the status born from General Franco's wishes, and the only commitments recognized for Catalonia are those that are propitious to its configuration as a European nation. Catalonia has the right to respect not only its national identity, but also its territorial integrity between the European Union, and, moreover, to form itself as the independent country in the form of a republic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is hard to understand that some of you are still under the impression of a corrupt monarchy. I do not consider myself, but what should be the object of any democracy is the revocation of this old-fashioned rule that one time and another in the history of Spain has resulted in an authentic catastrophe. That which began for the Catalans with Philip V has to end with Philip VI, because the Catalans do not have king, nor do we want to. What credibility can we have with democrats if we keep this charade? What credibility do our words and actions against corruption have if we allow this Bourbon impunity? What authority will we have now to enforce anti-corruption standards if we accept a royal family that escapes when it is investigated after millions and millions of euros have been spent on trading commissions? There is much more to it than the corruption of a head of state; it is coming to the discovery of the lamppost that managed to move from the Franco state to a state of democratic appearance. The authentic pact that existed was what the Francoist elites did with the state apparatus, a state of democratic appearance to change the impossibility of judging the franchise. In contrast to the end of the Portuguese dictatorship, there was neither a split nor a revolution in Spain with the ancient regime, but a continuation, a continuum that was based on the law of silence. So democracy, between comets, change of silence. And so we find ourselves today, before a clever spectacle that would make the delights another round of Valle-Inclán. And now, please, out of respect for the good people of this country, that no one comes to this Faristol to justify the role of the Spanish royal house with the argument that one thing is people and another is institutions. As recently published by constitutional law professor Javier Pérez Royo, the king's family, with capital, has no private dimension, only political and constitutional dimensions, and exclusively political and constitutional. And yet he adds: "We are not before a family problem of private naturalness, as the communication of the royal house gives us to hear, we are before a problem of constitutional naturalness. And certainly, in my opinion, for Spain there have only been two exits for this very serious crisis of a corrupt and corked institutional system: one, the abdication of Philip VI in favor of a democratic system; one_second, the summoning of a referendum on monarchy or republic to the Spanish State. The government of commons and socialists has the opportunity to demonstrate now its democratic compromise by giving the word to the people, or resigning, if it is continuing to engage in corruption and is not intended to be complicit. And also, let me remind you of what I said on Tuesday on the press wheel ended the Executive Board: that no one has any doubts about it, that they are at the side of the Spanish republics with all the support, but that they also make it clear to everyone, our project is that of an independent Catalan republic. Because we independents don't fight for a Spanish republic, because we already know that it's not a problem of right-wings or left-wings, or of Spanish monarchs or republicans; Spanish nationalism has permeated all the colors and tendencies that have ruled Spain. The independenceists have a very clear objective: to live free – to live free. We want to found and build with democratic purity the independent Catalan republic, and it is from this will that we have no problem extending our hands to the Democrats and Spanish Republicans, no problem; at the same time, we always have mutual respect. We will help the noble object of replacing the Bourbons in Spain always from respect for the freedom of Catalonia, won the U of October and proclaimed on 27. We do not raise or place independence in a _second plan. Moreover, independence is now more urgent than before. We don't have any more reason, we have the full cabas. Now independence for us, for the need to raise this country with all freedom, social justice and the resources that Catalans generate. For Philip Pettit, one of the most modern theorists of republicanism, a republic will have to promote the social forms of life in which each person is able to look directly at the other person's eyes, with a common consciousness, which do not depend on his will or are at the mercy of any other subject group. That is to say, republicanism understood as a society of free and equal citizens, not subordinates, not dominated, empowered, disputing, participating... It is in them, in the citizens, the raison d'être of being the republic; without citizens, there is no republic. Therefore, following Pettit, this freedom and the democracy of which it is endowed implies virtuous citizens, involved in society, who ask, that they censor the ill practices of the Government, that they watch, that the condition, that they have ceased to be sudden seas to become civil motors of change. And also, the company has to keep a constant watch, says Pettit, and this is the price of republican freedom, this watch. In short, and in this case carrying a phrase from Maurizio Viroli, another of the great Republican thinkers: the free republic only sees citizens in free and equal. In fact, in Catalonia republicanism does not see it again; it is a question of linking to the republican tradition of our country, to all that sensational empowerment city that meant the athenaeums, circles, associations, orphanages and entities of a thousand different types already since the half of the 19th century, a thick network of organised civil society, for the impetus of the citizens to want to be something more than a passing spectator of what passes to your house, and who sees his moment flashing on April 14, 1931, when Macià knew how to define the exact moment of the will of the people of Catalonia, correcting Companies when in the Republic proclaimed for this, he, President Macià, proclaimed the Catalan Republic. That's why Republicanism has a great tool for us, as well as alerting us to the perils. I have always liked what Victor Torres said, another eminent republic: "The enemies that we must never lose sight of are the three main massacres of democracy: demagogicism, incompetence and immorality. The three scars, all three at once, are donated in the case of Juan Carlos's escape. Four years ago we celebrated in Barcelona a few days ago on public ethics and republicanism. In a masterly lecture, Professor Xavier Antich came to realize an ethical compass, a republican formula for our time, constituted by three great values: integrity, decency, responsibility. And still add a _quarter to the public server: exemplarity. That is why, to independence, as much as you give to organised civil society, republicanism as it did to the said. And, in addition, it imposes an enormous challenge: the ambition of the full civil virtue of the citizens to live free, to finally live responsible, and to be demanding in the demand of this responsibility. Integrity, decency, exemplary. How can a republic stand with its arms folded before the escandol of King Juan Carlos? But all that we've experienced these past few days, let's sum up what's been going on for the last few weeks in Catalonia, because as a result of the health, economic and social crisis, the repression against independence has remained unchanging, even making things worse. Our companies, which had the third degree consolidated, had to go back to prison for an absolutely arbitrary decision of the Spanish state prosecutor's office. The Spanish Government, failing all the promises, even in cases where the state of alarm has been extended, refuses to hand over to the Generalitat, the Government and the joint venture the money that belongs to them. Nor does he agree to hold a meeting to talk about the 31,000_million of the European foundations, the rule of deficit, the surpluses of the joint ventures, the help of the Mede – nothing, zero, does not answer – as we see our people, workers, autonomists and entrepreneurs despairing before the crisis, our resources do not arrive. Conversely, they're going to Madrid for a few more times, as they've been with the Romanesque assembly. Honestly, that's enough. We've got to say enough. By responsibility, by the way. The options are now clearer and brighter than ever. I insist, the options are today clearer and more diaphanous than ever: the Catalan Republic and independence, the Spanish monarchy and dependence. Now, let's all put the arguments in the table, because all the options have to be explained. Some, how to make this independence effective and what gain and what sacrifice it brings. The others, as Romanesque in Spain, with the current institutional crisis and with the current infra-financing for Catalonia, which stifles any proposal for economic recovery, it is possible to continue moving forward. Let everyone explain themselves and the people decide. It is what the opportunity will be for all the citizens of Catalonia to make their own choices in this Parliament. I ended up addressing the citizen. You need to be proud of the way you've been going so far. Despite the general cause against independence, the prison and the exile, we have resisted these three years of toughness, and the dignity with which Catalan society has faced attacks on the citizens' most fundamental rights has been memorable. As President, I would like to highlight all the social compromise with the most vulnerable, the civic duty to put the common good forward. Yeah, we've sabut acting the Republican way. And I thank everyone, one more time, the solidary struggle against the pandemic, a struggle of all and with all. Thank you very much. The time will come for an immense complexity, for a hard time as we can't imagine before six months ago, but it will again be the people of this country, the people who risk, the people who learn, the people who help, the people who are solidarity, the people who accompany, the people who are revolted, the people who have after the lesson of these months and who yearn for a different future, who want a just, new, vibrant future, because it's the people and always the people, and because it's only working for the people, for all the seven million people of Catalans, is felt to politics. For all we have lived, for all we live, I invite you to embrace the future with hope, for Catalonia and for life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.3.0	Thank you, President. Let us continue with the interventions of the representatives of the parliamentary groups and, first of all, have the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.4.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Last Monday, July 26, after a few weeks without doing anything, you appeared plunged into chaos and discontrol of the rebounds to say that we were facing the ten most important days of summer and you came to hold the citizens responsible for your disastrous management. Well, Mr. Torra, those ten days ended yesterday, August 6th, so today was indeed a good day to appear in Parliament and come and explain to all Catalans how your government is managing the pandemic. But no, you have not convened a plenary to talk about the serious problems of the Catalans arising from the very serious social and economic crisis generated by the Covid-19; you have not convened a plenary to talk about the situation of the Catalan hospitals or the fatigue of the health workers in the face of the terrible autumn that awaits us, or about the areas of Catalonia that are most at risk of resurgence, or to tell us whether your Government has a plan B to tackle them, or to explain why its measures have provoked so much controversy and many of them have been stopped by the courts. Today you have not called us a plenary to talk about the Catalans infected, neither of trackers, nor of the situation of the residences of the elderly, nor of the situation of the self-employed who go with the water to the neck because they cannot face their payments, nor of the data of the Labour Force Survey, which is demolishing and we met last week, nor of the traders who are closing up, nor of the hoteliers who are living a summer of nightmare... Hey, I am from Barcelona, you live here too. When you walk through the streets and see so many shops closed, so many locals closed that you put«For rent, is something not moved, Mr Torra? Don't you feel anything for those families who have lost their livelihood, Mr. Torra? Nor have you convened a full monograph on health, as we proposed to you since my group last week, to address and discuss between the serious setbacks and measures to strengthen our health system. A plenary that, by the way, you – not you, but the groups that support you – have sent to September, because this was more urgent, talking about the king today was super urgent, talking about the health of the pandemic was not so urgent. We'll do that in September. A little more than a month from the start of school, you have also not called a plenary to tell families if you are going to be able to have your children studying, starting a new course, and how you are going to do it when there are rebounds in classes. Or he has not come to explain to us what happened with the currency cards, which were the old dining grants, which has left the Generalitat without money to those who do not have the resources to eat in August. And you have not, in the end, convened this plenary to discuss the corruption that affects your ranks, those general sports secretaries that you support despite being involved in cases of corruption, your deputies from your ranks who are being investigated for corruption and which you support. No, you have not come here to talk about Mrs Borràs, nor about Mr Jordi Pujol. Not from this either. That is, you have come here to speak – rather than speak, to set up a circus or a farce – to ask for the abdication of King Philip VI, for which this Parliament has no competence, and to continue to attack our rule of law, and to continue to attack our nation, the nation of many Catalans, the majority, who feel both Catalans and Spanish. That's all you've done during your short term as president. The Catalans are worried, they're talking about rebounds. Many have absolutely altered their vacation plans because they don't know where to go, and if they can go back, and if they have to be confined. It is not known which area is safe and many people have not moved, which also has its immense impact on the pockets of many people who are living with extreme anguish the economic consequences of this pandemic. [[In short, Mr. Torra, you mentioned Valle-Inclán, and Valle-Inclán defined sperpent as the mixture between the tragic and the grotesque. The pandemic is tragic, this plenum is grotesque, this plenum is a spurt because it is used for something that is absolutely out of place. He's a skunk from Valle-Inclán. (Applause.) You did well to quote him.]] And another thing we have been able to see is that this Parliament opens up and closes itself to the desire of separatism and only for the process. Again, we have returned to the times when we are full in August, not to talk about those things that interest everyone, but to talk about the process and the attacks on the Spanish nation. I already know, and you've said it a thousand times, that you didn't come to manage an autonomy. That's why they don't like social and economic indicators. Look, among the social indicators... I do want to mention those. You have come here to ask for the king's abdication, but I want to talk here today about health, about the thousands of deaths by coronavirus that have occurred during this pandemic in Catalonia, or with symptoms compatible with the coronavirus, and about the deaths that have occurred in the residences and the tens of thousands of infected since the beginning of the pandemic. And also other social issues that we already had pending before the crisis. For example, having outdated, underfunded, the portfolio of social services that has had a special impact on the disaster we have experienced in residences. Or think about childhood, which we have already said today – today has been mentioned in the permanent parliament –: only 0.8_per_cent of GDP is devoted in Catalonia to children's policies, when the average for Spain is 1.4_per_cent and the European one is 2.4. And Save the Children has warned that the rate of child poverty could reach 34.6_percent by the end of 2020 in Catalonia due to the crisis of the Covid-19. Or in dependence, that has increased the waiting list in dependence that we already had in Catalonia; the largest of all Spain, and has increased despite the deaths of many people in public residences. In housing, 15_per_cent of housing has to be of social use, according to Law 18/2007. But in Catalonia we are in 2_per_cent. Successive governments have not created public-use housing despite what the law provided, and we are in a 2-per-cent. And what do you do, your government? For populist laws that do not solve the problem of rents and that yesterday same fell again, because it is the second time, the Consell de Garanties Statutàries. That's about alarming social indicators. But these alarming social indicators are still going to be more red, judging by the most alarming economic indicators. GDP, Catalan GDP, falls by 20.1_percent annually in the second quarter, and the figures for the 2008 crisis worsen, to which we shall refer later. The stop. According to the Labour Force Survey of the second quarter of 2020, in Catalonia we have 61,300 new Catalan unemployed and, in total, there are 472,900 unemployed, which puts the unemployment rate in Catalonia at 12.78_per_cent, when in the first quarter it was 10.66, more than two points of increase in a single quarter. Not to mention the fall of tourism. The drop in tourism has resulted in a lower income at the national, Spanish national level, of course, that they estimate at 83,000_million_of_euros this year, being our autonomous community the most punished of Spain, because we will lose 26,000_million_of_euros, which is 31.3_per_cent of the total of Spain. I would say: How do you feel about all this that I have said to you and that you know perfectly well? Is the social situation in Catalonia not serious enough for you to convene a plenary and talk about it? Is the monarchy more serious? Really, Mr. Torra? Really, independence leaders who live by giving gasoline to the process? Do you really believe that the population shares this urgency in general? Look, we've seen them do unimaginable things – hollering at the CDRs, applauding alleged terrorists, calling for self-determination and more illegal referendums in the midst of the pandemic today – but today, Mr. Torra, I believe that in the legacy that you leave, this today is going to weigh especially. Look, I think the Catalans, and the rest of the Spaniards, know that. You have called this plenary to distract public attention from your harmful management of the pandemic, your null and void economic management and your harmful health management. That's what explains why we're here. A maneuver of very clear political distraction and book. A book of bad politicians, by the way. [[Greetings.]] Look... Mr. Torra, you're making a lot of people. You've got a lot of Catalans going on. And, do you know who represents the Catalan entrepreneurs of now, those self-employed, those gentlemen of the closed blinds, those workers who are not going to reintegrate themselves into their jobs? Well, Ciutadans. Ciutadans represents those mothers, those families who have a mortgage, who have children and who are trembling for one of them to be unemployed or to earn much less money and have problems paying the mortgage, as happened in the 2008 crisis. It's just that this crisis is like that. More. It will have more magnitude, according to what we are told. And those Catalans, how do you think they feel when you take and summon a plenary here to talk about the monarchy, to take down the monarchy, to ask the Spanish Republicans for help to take down the monarchy? I see it as nonsense. Look, you have been absent during these weeks from managing the severe rebounds and health chaos in Catalonia. It was absent on Friday from the Conference of Autonomous Presidents and left empty the chair of all Catalans, where you were to defend our interests. And now he also wants to be absent from explaining himself to the whole opposition of his disastrous management. And that's why he sets up this show to attack Spain and its institutions. The bad news is that the victims of all this are the citizens. You, we're seeing everyone like you have other priorities before you cut the rebounds and that, not even the economic tsunami that is causing the pandemic, with thousands of lives and jobs at stake, it's for you when you park your separatist obsession. Look, I asked him last week by letter to summon the entire opposition to explain to us what his efforts were, what he was doing to fight the pandemic. But you responded by refusing to meet with all the opposition parties so that we could all first-hand know the conclusions of the conference of presidents, which you were not, and how you were managing these serious setbacks. And he did so with the excuses that, unfortunately, you have us used to, proving again that you are not, Mr. Torra – and I'm sorry to tell you – at the height of the circumstances. We're sinking into the recession. And for you the important thing is to plant all the opposition and all the Catalans we represent. Parking differences and betting on unity is what a responsible ruler would do in this situation. But you always go the other way. The situation in Catalonia is very serious and there is no one at the helm. And, look, seeing you as the champion of the fight against corruption when it comes to the Spanish monarchy, at least it laughs, you know? In Catalonia we are all used to the daily news of new cases of corruption in Convergence, in the former Convergence, and in all that has been ruling nationalism in Catalonia. And it affects many of those who are sitting here, no matter how much they have changed the name of their party to avoid responsibilities. At this point, we all know... There hasn't been a long time ago the Palau case, which exposed Convergence's modus operandi to illegally finance itself, which was not the 3_per_cent, but the 4. Mr. Mas came to Parliament – his predecessor as President of the Generalitat, not the immediate predecessor, but his predecessor – to appear for the sentence and what he did was to drain the bundle and here nothing has happened, in the face of the acquiescence, by the way, of all of you from the sovereignist bench. And that was the same day that a judge sent the bench to the Pujol family by criminal organization. You have Laura Borràs, who was a member of the Government of the Generalitat, and who has some e-mails to blush at anyone about how she gave the contracts to her friends. And just last week, Judge De la Mata concluded the investigation into the 3_per_cent commission charge case in Catalonia. He was talking about – I quote textually – « which caused a serious discredit for the Catalan administration the case of 3_per_cent and a damage to the public treasury of millions of euros. Until 2015, the plot of 3_per_cent irregularly awarded from the Generalitat and the municipalities controlled by the party thirty_and_one public works for 227_million. So seeing you here scandalized and tearing your clothes for a supposed corruption of the emeritus king when in your house you have so much, so much, and you have hidden so much with the flag, it is a spurt. It's a spurt. Look, you have – I have told you before – the secretary general d'Esports and a member of his group who is being investigated for making use of the funds for international cooperation, so for his friends in the Convergence Foundations and to bag him other parts. Did you say anything? Did you say no pyo? No, right? Why? Because you cover up with the flag, that modus operandi, atavic in the Catalan administration. And you ask for the king's abdication. He tells his deputies nothing, or half, to them; now, to the king of Spain..., he comes out here« fent escarafalls, as you say, to supposedly hold the present king responsible for what his father emeritus did. Look, I also want to refer to Republican Esquerra, because now it is very funny to see Mr Aragonès at the head of Esquerra, who now turns out to ask the government to people in the case of 3_per_cent. But, Mr. Aragonès, if you have not moved for years to the side of the old Convergence, without protesting, without saying anything – nothing, nothing! – of corruption, and now the elections come and they want to make them pass through the corrupt and you distance yourself. That's it. Take advantage of the timing of the elections. « No, ai, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And, by the way, Mr Torrent, Mr President – I see you are here – what happens to the fulfilment of Parliament's requirement for Jordi Pujol to pay the eight hundred and thousand euros he can and must pay to the Tax Agency and for him to be protected in the statute of limitations? Because here it was approved at the request of Ciutadans to ask you to pay, and it has been two months and these things happen that « oh, now you no longer know, but well, the Parliament for some things is very fast and summons us to the full from one day to another, but, hey, to ask Mr. Pujol to pay what he has defrauded to Hacienda, that already..., enter Esquerra Republicana, enter those of Junts per Catalunya and it is already total immobility, the oil raft, all quiet. Look, you remember... Look, when you went out to talk about Mr. Puig and the Belgian resolution, which does not grant extradition, you reminded me of the episode that you lived with Inés Arrimadas, also saying that Puigdemont had been tried by the Germans and said that you had not committed any crime. And he was told, "Listen, let's see... I tell you, Mr. Torra, don't take the independence world as such a fool. Don't get these sophistications out of here that nobody believes in you. This gentleman has won a battle, he has two more resources left. It's normal, it's what happens, sometimes things get better, others get worse, but, you know what we Democrats do? We abide by judicial decisions, when they are contrary and when they are favourable to us. You, from the independence world, only celebrate when you are right. He's not acquitted. A procedural issue has been denied in a first instance that you are expressing as the juice of a lemon to make you see that that is very big, as you did with Mr Puigdemont, and to me the truth is that you have reminded me a lot. And the same legal solidity shows when they say: « The king has fled, the king has fled. But, from whom has the Emeritus King fled – from whom has he fled – if he is not even investigated, like all these I have quoted to you, is he not yet investigated in court? An investigation into the prosecution is under way. [[Greetings.]] And that doesn't... when a person hasn't even been summoned, don't run away, Mr. Torra. There flees a man who is persecuted for justice in Spain, who gets into a trunk and leaves and says to his companions: "Until Monday, until Monday, that I come and..., I come Monday, I come Monday, I come Monday. [[Greetings.]] That gentleman runs away, that gentleman runs away. Look, there is something else I have said once, and it is: if a person's corruption affected the institution, there would be no more degraded institution than the Generalitat de Catalunya and its presidency, Mr.Totra, there would be no more degraded institution. And I'm going to set an example that sometimes you put it to the independenceists, and as I also see you at times that you have a level of discussion of first independence or first separatism, that you still lack to put on the greatest of greater acuity and greater solidity your arguments... Because you imagine, Mr. Torra, that because of corruption, or the investigation of corruption against presidents of the Generalitat, the Government of Spain would go out to say: "It's okay with this decentralized state, it's okay with the presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia, you have to charge the, this cannot be, the Spanish Democrats would have to charge us with the Generalitat of Catalonia; there are four, four presidents that have been involved in illegal activities, so let's go for them, which is what you are doing now? You're doing that. From the government of an autonomy you are attacking another institution of the State for acts committed by one of the people who represented this institution, as if the State said: "Mr.Jordi Pujol was stealing with two hands, the presidency of the Generalitat is a medieval institution that has nothing to do with democracy today and therefore we are going to carry it. Mr. Jordi Pujol ; Mr. Puigdemont, who is fleeing, that there is indeed an investigation for a complaint by the UPC, in Girona, for corruption, that this is often forgotten to us, but is fled by very serious things, and to attack the Constitution and coexistence, but that is that there is also an investigation for a complaint by the UPC for alleged corruption, and then there is Mr. Mas, who is the king of the 3_per_cent, who is that equestrian who has not yet cleared himself, but who is there, with Councillor Gordó, and with all..., and the treasurers of Convergence, and all that. And Mr. Mas was president of the Generalitat, and he came here and held on to his post as former president of the Generalitat and his office, and no one, none of you said "go, Mr. Mas, none." « Well, King Emeritus, that is. O ‘Come on, we will judge you, yes. But, to Mr. Mas, to the 3_per_cent king, the successor of Pujol, nothing. You are condemned, too, Mr. Torra, for disobedience. Not one of the last four presidents of the Generalitat can throw a stone at the emeritus. There is not one of you; not one, gentlemen, not one. Look, with regard to what..., entering into more serious things than this thick line with which you attack the symbols that represent more than half of the Catalans, you, when you thus attack the monarchy, attack one of the symbols that represent the permanence of the Spanish nation. And it does so very consciously; you are independentist and you want to undermine it, you want to bite its foundations until it falls. It calls for the help of all those, such as those of Podemos, who want to take down what they have given in calling the regime of 78 and have their invaluable collaboration. Which, by the way, gentlemen of Podemos, to see when they say the same thing about the Generalitat of Catalonia. You do not like the monarchy and attack the monarchy through the acts of the Emeritus King; you will not attack the presidency of the Generalitat through the acts of its presidents, will you? That's weird. Why? Because you, because... do you attack the institution of the Generalitat? No, no, And why do they attack the institution of the monarchy? I'll tell him. I will tell you that for many people the monarchy is an institution as firm, as dear or as assumed as the Generalitat of Catalonia in Catalonia can be, and those who defend the Statute and defend the Constitution, we do not attack those institutions that are the result of consensus and that sometimes come from the historical sedimentation that institutions have in the countries. Because so medieval was the Generalitat of Catalonia, which was the general of the Crown of Aragon to collect tributes here in Catalonia, as can be an institution like the monarchy. Therefore, I tell you that to those who feel truly free in Catalonia, to whom we are citizens who assume the reality of a constitutional and decentralized state, we do not fall the rings to be defended, for Philip VI is the current king and must not pay the monarchy for the mistakes that the emeritus king could have made. We have already said it, and if you want to repeat it: if you have committed acts that are persecutable, let it be done according to the law. We don't have the slightest inconvenience. What you do and at the time you do you have no name, Mr. Torra. Because you're taking advantage of it, taking the chance... that they paint it bald and take it by the hairpin in the classic paintings. What you're doing is taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, if you mean so, to charge against the monarchy. And since I have referred to the commons, who are partners in the Government of Spain and who are ruling Spain, and who have lacked the time to go and charge against the monarchy, I would also like to address myself to the Socialist Party, with Mr Iceta sitting here on the bench. Do not have so many complexes, Mr.Iceta, to defend our Constitution and its institutions. Don't have them, please. I've seen tweets from the Socialist Youth of Catalonia that equated the Emeritus King with Puigdemont. Do you think so? Do you really think it remains as further progress as being antimonarchical and joining with those who want to carry the 78th regime? It seems to me that in Catalonia we are lacking – not in Catalonia, in all of Spain we are lacking – to assume that in the rest of the countries of the world, which also have constitutional monarchies and are full democracies; the Social Democrats are also not to be jumped to try to burden their constitutional regime or to look with sympathy at those who question the presence of a monarchy in their country. I would also like you to set a pedagogical example in this for the whole population, for all those who feel Catalan and Spanish and who can be more or less illegitimately skeptical with that system of Head of State, but who, in the current circumstances, with people who are dedicated to demolishing our State, to causing instability in institutions when we need more stability, this is not the time for lukewarmness, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. And look, I'm going to end up saying that, Mr. Torra, you before I told you, that you said you didn't come to manage an autonomy and you already see that neither autonomy nor pandemic. We cannot expect good decisions or effective management from this Government. We're already in the back of your permanent disqualification. I'd almost ask you to leave now, Mr. Torra. Go now and stop eroding the institution you represent, which is the presidency of the Generalitat de Catalunya. As soon as the health alert passes and the situation improves, it is urgent that there be elections in Catalonia. But I, as long as that doesn't happen, ask you to give way to someone else, if there's anyone among your people who wants to work. Look, whatever happens, it'll soon be in the hands of all Catalans to put an end to this situation. I ask all Catalans to support those forces that give us stability and think about people and not nations. So let's hope your government lasts little and what it lasts also tell you that Citizens will be responsible; we will be responsible for helping against the Covid-19 and the economic crisis and stopping them– [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And I finish now, President – your feet in each of your irresponsibilitys, every time you want to destroy coexistence, every time you attack our common symbols appreciated by many Catalans, those who represent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.5.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.6.0	... his Spanishness, his catalanity and that of his ancestors, the Crown and our flags.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.7.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Next, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, has the words of Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.8.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. After the first time that Mr. Carrizosa has left us desiring that there is a new independent president, I am now commenting on what brought us here today. And I have to tell you, President, that we are a little surprised, because you announced on July 27 that you were starting the most critical days of the summer. I thought that past these days we'd make a balance, they'd tell us how we'd go in the next few weeks, but no: he invites us, but to debate something else. We take this opportunity to say that we are watching with concern the uprising, that we have the feeling that the government that you preside over acted late and poorly until the arrival of the new Secretary of Public Health at least, and that we are following with a large number of closed primary care centres and major deficiencies in the early detection and tracing of contacts process. But that doesn't seem like there's any chance of talking about it. Nor does it seem that he wants to go into the roots for which the Catalans and the Catalans did not want to be present at the last conference of presidents, in which the process of descalation and the distribution of the extraordinary foundations of the European Union was precisely addressed. You were the only one to leave the chair empty. The reason is simple: you only want to represent those who think like you, even though this can harm the interests of the country, and this, from our point of view, is all the contrary to the institutional feeling that you should preside over your action as President of the Generality which is and as ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia, which is also. On July 31st, the current session was over and I thought you might be a profiteer to communicate when you intend to call the elections. I thought about it because it was six months ago – specifically the 29th generation – you announced to the public that your majority of government had disowned you, not to defend your status as a Member, and also told us that you had a divided government and that the legislature was exhausted. I thought maybe six months later I could honor his commitment to announce an election date, but no, or at least not yet. You thought it appropriate to prioritise a debate on the political situation created by the crisis of the Spanish monarchy, which seems to interest you more than giving accounts of why in the midst of the health crisis we have been forty-six days without secretary of Public Health – forty-six days in the midst of the health crisis –, or without explaining why the Government has decided to fail to implement a unanimous resolution of the Parliament on the payment of minimum wages in the summer period, or without explaining how it intends to recover Catalonia's leading position in terms of Spanish GDP or in terms of foreign investment, or without explaining why it has not yet called political forces to establish a catalytic pact for economic recovery and social reconstruction. Miri, yesterday they celebrated in Valencia a political pact to the Valencian Courts, which adheres to a social agreement already made and to an institutional alliance already signed on economic revival and social reconstruction. Today, the agreement of Nissan was ratified, a good news for the country that will be able to round up, through a substitute industrial activity that we must find at the end of the seven-month period, and we hope that the Government will continue to act in this direction. We also hope that the Government will mobilise energies and agreements because many Catalan projects will be presented before the European Commission for the necessary funding. Now, I'm saying, we're out of this sort of priority, but we shouldn't be alienating ourselves. You expressed what your priorities were with all clarity when you passed to Prada de Conflent, concretely on August 20. You said that you had not come to preside over an autonomous community and that you clearly chose the way of confrontation in the relations of the Generality with the rest of Spain. Certainly, it is shocking that someone who has chosen to preside over an institution confessed openly that he is not willing to accept the norms that regulate it, nor does he just want to reform them but only thinks of making them ill through systemic confrontation. Competitions and resources can always be claimed, it would only be missing, but before accounting for how the competitions and resources available to it are used: the €46,000_million of the Generality's budget and the 250,000 public workers who fall under it. But this does not seem to interest you very much, and this explains your priorities and the subject of the debate that brings us here today: institutional confrontation by any other consideration. And certainly – and I don't want to avoid the issue – the conduct of the former monarch, who made him leave Spain, is and must be object of criticism and also of judicial investigation as the proceedings opened in Spain and Switzerland. But to deduce from the personal behavior of the former head of the State that changing the rules is a disarray from our point of view. You asked: "What should the Generality do in a situation like this? Our opinion: defending the legal framework or proposing to change it through majorities and established procedures, is to say, do what is done in any democratic state. Now, you agree that Spain is not a democratic state. It is the same, that this does not follow the criteria maintained by the European Union and its member countries. It is just as The Economist places Spain as one of the twenty full democracies of the world, the five best country of the G-20; only Canada, Australia, Germany and the United Kingdom get better qualifications, but how this does not fit its political stance is going to deny it. Our parliamentary group believes – and no one doubts – that no one is above the law and that, therefore, justice must make it clear, and if you come out to punish, any unlawful behaviour, you have to do as you have done. And we also believe that we need to review the criteria of openness and inviolability to make it clear that they only use the institutional task and not the private activities of the head of state. And we believe that I can review the honors attributed to a person if his conduct is not corresponding to which he has made meritorious of such honors. It may be recalled that the ducts in this case pose in doubt are personal ducts, not institutional ducts. We also wanted to have a president of the Generality who had money for foreign affairs and who had it long and long ago, concretely long after a long mandate of twenty-three years, but that's not why they decided to change our institutional system. Even when structural corruption has been discovered, as in the case of the 3_per_cent or Palau, this has not involved the establishment of the Generality, but only the concrete ones responsible for the decisions that have been or are being judged. And certainly – it has also been said – his government late, in the measure that it has not yet acted as a particular accusation in these judicial proceedings, as it still indicates that they have meant an economic injury to the Generality. And I can also remember that this Parliament with a young lady agreed that this is faith. Look, there's been a lot of talk about the 78 rule, and I think it's going to be a lot more. Our institutional system is the result of a political agreement established between various political forces with a commendable effort of consensus. A political agreement that was certainly referred to by the Catalans with a greater turnout and a greater percentage of votes affirmed than in the Spanish conjunction. And it is an agreement, as it is in life, questionable, but it has allowed us a very positive stage: I am going to say – as much as can be discussed – the best forty-two years of the past three centuries of the history of Spain, Catalonia inclusive. And it's obvious that the Constitution can be reformed, and that from our point of view it needs to be reformed, but building large majority, fulfilling much majority agreements by submetering them after reference. To open debates about regime changes without guarantees of being able to secure them well, from our point of view, is a disarray. It is not reasonable to think of making lower consensus than we had in '78. And less so when we should focus our efforts on fighting the pandemic, economic recovery and social reconstruction. Democracy is fundamental and it is also forms; democracy is a system that is sometimes slow, contradictory and felicitous; democracy, among other things, requires convincing those who do not think like you, that it is a job that we should all put ourselves to, trying to convince those who do not think like us, not thinking that, as we are right, they will give it to us, that it is as it seems that many act. And there is no right in this process of building chords and majorities, unless someone wants to fall into arbitrariness or authoritarianism, as it was when the President of the Government appointed said the judgments through the Law of Transition. The confrontation that you advocated to Prada de Conflent and that you practice systematically has much to do with the need to take away the criticisms about an obvious mismanagement and with the intention of taking advantage of it all in the service of the independence project, even though it may harm the country's interest. Now we've seen how late they've come to the descalade. Three months criticizing the Government of Spain, but also three months that should have been used to be better prepared than it later proved. And we trust that now they are preparing better for the later, because today we have all folded the feeling that the deployment of epidemiological surveillance devices has been late. Today– and it has also come out – we are unworthy of the lack of social awareness on the subject of fooder scholarships in the summer; today there are still doubts about the beginning of the school year; today the Catalan GDP falls three points more than the average of the State, and we have lost for the first time the first position as an autonomous community as a percentage of GDP over the state- Madrid has moved forward. There is enough talk of the need for a new covenant for salvation, but the thread is not put to the needle to make it concrete. We all agree that it is necessary to boost reindustrialisation through innovation, digitalisation. Inequalities continue to grow and the fight against the poor and social exclusion does not advance far enough. We need to give a new impetus, and we are very much in agreement with this, to the energy and economic transition, between other things because we are at home producing renewable energy like wind. Maybe we should focus our efforts on that. Maybe it would be nice to stop playing with the election date, because those of us who want a better Catalonia, we want a better government, we don't want it renewed with another president of this government. But we won't be looking for rights. They won't find us, trying to destabilize the institutions; they won't find us tied to confrontation. We believe, and we have practiced, we have said it, and we maintain it, that it is time for cooperation and dialogue, not confrontation or imposition. We need, yes, a facility to give a good management, fleeing from opportunism, that does not favor reform but all the contrary, raises fears and obstacles. We want to build consensus, and that also needs to sort out priorities and leave band to what divides us. Our democracy is perfectable, yes, but we will perfect it with consensus and reform, neither baptism nor occurrence, and always respecting the legality, procedures and majorities needed – there is no right from this point of view, and fortunately, right. President, the Spanish monarchy has problems, sense of doubt. Many of them can be sensibly approached with proper legal reforms, which would avoid any sense of impunity. But, believe me, before any major changes to the rules were put in place, we should try to come to terms with more urgent and necessary things. And if there are enough solid majorities to come up with deeper reforms someday, we'll see that, but it's not now, and I think any objective observer of reality will agree with us. We want a better country, as your government doubts too, but it does not seem that you always put the banya, the emphasis, the priority in this effort. And as you yourself said that you were not calling for autonomy and that what you wanted to prioritize is confrontation, we find that this is the explanation of why today was meant to provoke a debate. There was, on the part of a parliamentary group, an attempt to question the celebration of the debate. We haven't given it any support, because we think this room should be used to debate everything. Another question is to be able to make decisions that escape from their competences or that are manifestly unconstitutional. We also want to warn about this. It is obvious that those who want to confront it often want to get into this type of drift, but it is condemned to the weakness and wear that practices it and suffers it. We believe that Catalans expect a lot of us, probably more than we can guarantee and provide. But what they do have right to expect is that we are still able to add effort to what really matters. With a pandemic still under way, with very serious economic and social problems, with concerns about the school curriculum and the abilities to control the rebounds that have taken place at these times, I think it is difficult to understand why debates about what we do not have real opportunities to influence or make decisions about respect are a priority. We always try to follow the procedures. We always try to respect political opponents and differing opinions. I'd just miss it. It's our conviction, it's our obligation, it's our commitment. But, President, from loyalty to these democratic convictions, we believe that it is also our duty to point out when we believe that we are wandering on priorities, when we believe that decisions are being taken that do not correspond, when we believe that there are paths that do not carry. The pandemic may have had an element of reflection on which we have not had enough and that is that there is not a single city, not a single city, not a single city, not a country, not a state, not a continent. Actually, the pandemic is teaching us that we need cooperation, that we really need joint work, that we need loyalty, which allows us to tell what we think and to disagree with respect, but also above all the effort to put resources in the same way that we suspect are insufficient for the crisis that has taken us into account. For this reason, we have criticized, President, his absence from the conference of Presidents. Cal align the policies of Catalonia, Spain and Europe. And that means many times, yes, many meetings; yes, sometimes to listen to opinions that are not like yours; yes, sometimes to go to a meeting even without any hope of convincing those who are to accompany you. Certainly, but it is that in democracy there is no right, there is no other way than this. We place him on a very different path from the confrontation. We place it to make the effort to weave consensuses Catalonia endins. And a few steps his government has taken, we celebrate them, and we don't want to say it in public: The deal with economic and social agents, this is the way. I already told him that before, in Valencia, economic and social agreement, institutional agreement and political agreement, between political forces. Here we are still very far from reaching this level, but it is not only that we are very far away, it is that you have not yet summoned us to explain the work of the Coreco, nor to try to listen to the contributions that the parliamentary groups can make to us. Indeed, if a person does not work for internal consensus, he will hardly get involved with the reform proposals, which require a great negotiation capacity and not just the firmness of a few words. We're not here for England, this is close to the Floral Games. Here what we are is why people can judge if our words and our actions correspond and if we effectively use the skills and resources we have at our disposal. President, from this point of view, his Government, from our humble opinion, is false, but we do not celebrate it, absolutely, because of the errors and shortcomings of a government at the end the recipient is the joint venture of society. Therefore, we care that you do very well. And to the extent that we can contribute, not least, to this uncertainty, from the proposal, from collaboration, sometimes also from criticism, which we will do, because we consider the country very much. And even though you, at least from some of your words, can learn, don't think we're democrats, we are, and therefore, we respect the institutions very much. That's why we respect, and many, our adversaries. That's why we don't let ourselves be led sometimes by a rhetoric that can hurt us, but in change we don't want to get rid of criticism and stigma at a more positive, firmer and more uncertain action by the Government of Catalonia. I said this on the basis of a monographic debate on the health crisis: all governments have seen themselves in one form or another surprised by this pandemic; all at one time or another have seen themselves overwhelmed by the demands of a disease that we still don't know very well. More reason to try to add, to try to leave the band that divides us, to try to put in common what unites us and above all what unites Catalans and Catalans, which is the attempt to achieve a better life for their families, a better future for their country. And from this point of view, President, the proper political course will probably be very demanding for all of us. It will be not just because we can celebrate, when you say, a few elections, but because actually the problems that we have faced since the month of February-March, are still in force, will continue in time and will have a projection on the economic and social situation, which really makes many families suffer and makes us feel that this country, as I am sure, also suffers from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, it is the turn of the deputy Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. The first one I wanted to do was to congratulate the workers of Nissan, who have reached an agreement, an agreement that has been further revalidated, which has been confirmed unanimously throughout the staff. Moreover, when everyone says that it is not possible, they have shown that it is possible and I believe that this courage, this struggle and this victory is not just of Nissan's workers, but that it is also from all over the country and now only that the Generalitat is on the rise in this need of reindustrialisation and also not to let lose all the jobs, not only direct, but also indirect that fall from Nissan. That said, the president asked where the Republicans of the State were and I was the first one to do so is to send a hug and a very strong greeting to the mayor of Cadis, who has already said that he will remove the name of the street Joan Carles and that now the name of the Public Health will be said. I also want to send a hug and a greeting to the good people of Gijón, who are working to do the same. I also want to do this for all mayors and mayors who every day carry out Republican policies to serve their citizens. I also want to send a strong hug to all the families who have lost their peers, mothers, opinions and lives simply to be republicans and I also want to make this hug and greeting to the ministers of Common May and United May and also to Vice President Pablo Iglesias, who are showing that they are thinking of the city, that they are not quieter and that they are doing more of the republican values. We also listened to the president make a petition about resignations of members of the central government. And what we see, what we can see, is that there are some that with any excuse, this time is the corruption of the monarchy, but we have listened to it on other occasions... Any excuse is good for trying to bring down the central government. We listened today to President Torra, the other day we could listen to Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo, so there are various views that are interested in bringing down the central government and we simply ask ourselves a question and it's always the same: how are we more useful to citizenship? Any more use for the city? And what we are clear about is that in the midst of an economic, health, social crisis, with an inequality that is fractured as a society, with thousands of painted families, with many workers who do not know whether in September or December they will have a place of work and whether this will be in a decent condition, when the right of housing is not guaranteed, when there is uncertainty and anxiety, we consider that we are of the most use in the process of social protection, in the process of ERTOS and in the process of ERTOS and in the process of ERTOS. That's the answer, President. So while you are dedicating yourself to criticizing us and demanding our resignation, we will work from where we can continue to serve the citizenry of Republican values. And he also wanted to answer Mr. Carrizosa, who accused us of attacking the Constitution. And I believe that who is attacking in the first place the Constitution is not us, Mr. Carrizosa. Whoever is attacking the Constitution, who is emerging from the Constitution, is the monarchy, with a king emeritus who has robbed all Spaniards and Spaniards with full hands and also with a king, who is the one we have right now, who is Philip VI, who is looking elsewhere and who instead of asking his father to render accounts, to appear before justice and not to leave, is putting a red carpet on him to flee to a paradise. That is attacking the Constitution and not what we are doing, which is nothing but defending it. And I will tell you: the main difference between the Generalitat and the monarchy is that the monarchy is hereditary and the Generalitat, at least, votes every four years. Sometimes, every two or three, depends on the circumstances. But this is the main difference, there are others. But this is important and here too it goes when you say that you can't confuse person with institution. If one can confuse person with institution when we are talking about an institution that is hereditary. And I've already entered a little bit more on the subject we were dealing with today. I think I'd say we're at 7, 8 or 9 August – we've already lost count – but we're at 7, Mr. Iceta tells me. If this year 2020 the reality we thought was already surpassing the scripts of certain dystopian series like Colapso, like Years and Years, like Black Mirror, with the Covid pandemic, with a virus spread out close together, with the people confined to their homes, with our lives in suspense, with an absolutely surprising economy, so I think that only the monarchy needed to lay down a little more salsa than these various crises, and there is not one, because the monarchy's crisis for me is not just an institutional crisis, but also, and mainly, it is a moral crisis. We have read in some media that Joan Carles I's escape was decided in a meeting between father and son after we met scandals, corruptions, some negotiations that seem opaque and, therefore, in the face of a health and economic crisis without precedent, the writers of the Royal House decided that it was a good idea to protect Felipe VI – or so they thought, that this was the best way to protect the institution and Felipe VI – sending his father out without clarifying the fate of millions of euros and without clarifying the interest on how to drive Joan Carles I, that we've already known as two or three possible rights could be overshadowed. Clearly, we ask ourselves: do you really think it was a good idea to announce your trip to summer, with treason, with agosticity, because people imagine you were in other things? Do they really think that citizenship is stupid and that it has such a short memory? Because acting in this way in a country that has not yet recovered from the crisis of 2008, which is experiencing a pandemic, when we are already beginning to tend to the world and we are beginning to weigh on our own scales an economic crisis, a social crisis, which the monarchy is acting so only we can interpret as that the monarchy is not only an outdated and anachronistic institution, it is also very little empathetic and is absolutely out of reality. Because, besides, we have also listened, we have also read that one of the possible solutions that was discussed in this meeting between Philip VI and the emeritus king is that, well, it could be about the fiscal regularization of his personal assets. But this possibility was quickly discarded. That is to say, it was valued that the king emerged complete with the law and the tax obligations that he bore so many years unfulfilled, but that seemed to be too much; it was too much to return the money to the citizenry; it was too much not to sit over the law; it was too much not to mock the citizenry. So we have that what was the head of the state for four decades, for forty years, has run unworthyly without giving explanations and proving that he was a corrupt for too long, because if not, then neither has this run away, that we believe is that it only finds all the suspects and all the investigations that are on the way. And before that, we find ourselves with Pedro Sánchez who says... we also listened to Mr. Iceta, who says that people are being judged, but not institutions. So I go back to doing the same thinking that I did before Mr. Carrizosa: you can't separate the person from the institution when we talk about an institution that is hereditary. And, moreover, how do we guarantee that Philip VI will not be a new Joan Carles I, if the monarch is inviolable and the monarchy is an institution that is built on opacity, secrecy and dispatch between the king, political elites and also economic elites? Because to have a head of state supposedly corrupt and, moreover, for a few years, not only does he delinquent, he must also have accomplices, but there must also be people who helped him. We have for one side governments that supposed to have helped him and we also have some communication media that, in this case, have not exercised as a real quarter power. And here too, what we see is that this way of doing is not just of a person, but that we are talking about a time, we are talking about a moment when it was a systemic tradition, because here, too, in Catalonia, we have seen as illustrious people, without crown, as Jordi Pujol, therefore, doing similar practices. Some do not share the flag but they do the custom of taking their money to Andorra or Switzerland. So, like I said, it's not about an ailing case. It's not about a person's case. It's not a once in a while. And, besides, in the case of the monarchy, I want to remember, we have the case with Mr Urdangarin, the husband of the infanta Cristina, the son-in-law of the king, who used, no more or less – as a hard face – an NGO for children with disabilities to escape money. We also remember Joan Carles and hunting in Botswana alongside Corinna Larsen, in the midst of the economic crisis of the past decade. We also remember your accounts in Switzerland and your commissions for AVE in Saudi Arabia. Therefore, the overview of the last years and all that remains to unearth us offers an image of an institution indissolubly linked to corruption. To put it another way, King Joan Carles used the prefecture of the State as a limited company to pile up his fortune and charge the account to the citizenry. Some have spoken of exile, of running away. Finally, some have said it was a sacrificial gesture. But I, frankly, what I see is directly an authentic robbery. They've come into our house, they've stolen from us, and on the way out, some of them have put a red captive, they've given a few chips to the skeleton, they've thanked him for leaving, and he's been guaranteed to be in a spot. I think that's what happened and that's not an exile or a runaway. A runaway does, but it's not a sacrificial gesture either. It's an indignity, a shame and a rise in shirts for the citizenry. While the people suffer – while the people suffer – we have this man in a gold-plated retreat with a fortune that, according to the New York Times, exceeds 2,000_million euros, in a luxury resort and with a private service. And it is also interesting to see here how the various political forces have been positioned. We have seen the reaction of the People's Party, of Ciutadans, of Vox, defending the thief and corruption on the part of Joan Carles I and the monarchical institution. I believe that even all his voters, and all his supporters, are engaged in this attitude, because what we have seen is that Joan Carles has had to sort between Spain or money, and has clearly sorted the money. And yet there are some, who are patriots to go home, who stand up to defend him. Clearly, I ask myself: do I really need to defend this humiliation of the citizenry? It is really necessary... – and I ask Mr. Alejandro Fernández –, indeed it is necessary to defend an institution that feels corrupt attack United We can, attack In Comú Can, when we are simply defending the republican values of truth, transparency and exemplarity? Is that the best they have to defend the monarchy? Because, besides, I am convinced of what I said, I am convinced that even the most monarchs do not share this way of acting from the monarchy. And there is also another question: is it not true that, if the monarchy each time represents fewer people, if it only represents you, has it ceased to tend and to fulfill its institutional and constitutional function? In fact, he already did, after that October 3, 2017. In those moments, every time more people have left and gone from the monarchy. At that time he resigned from the media, resigned from posing as a party struggler and resigned from reporting police rape. And, also, you insist, and we have a monarchy that every time proves that it's more corrupt and that it's more on the right. Actually, right now the main valours of this monarchy are Vox's ultrathreat. This is his monarchy. A monarchy that every time is more synonymous with impunity and corruption. And then we have the Socialist Party, which we honestly don't understand – we don't understand, and I mean it very clearly, my companies and Madrid companies have also said this – we don't understand their capture. We believe that they have had an action that is impropia, that is not in line with its principles, its values and its tradition. I think there have been sad and misunderstanding days for many citizens and, in particular, for many color socialists, both from Catalonia and Spain. First he saw how it was announced that Carmen Calvo had been able to participate in this negotiation and in this flight. Then he saw that he had made a mockery of his governing partners, with whom he does something that knows he is ill. And finally, we saw a Pedro Sánchez who made a defense sealed from this escape based on his presidential skills. And I'm asking on behalf of who I was talking about. I'm sure he didn't speak for the thousands of socialists who trusted him in the past. I'm also sure he didn't speak on behalf of millions of flying Republicans, just like his opinions and his avies, so a republic. At that time, she was bloodthirsty, brutally, and so we have to work for a new republic. And I am also sure that he did not speak on behalf of some socialist leaders, such as Sandra Gómez, the Deputy Mayor of Valencia, or the Young Socialists, who are in favour of opening a debate that is simply democratic. A debate for a city that is mature, that is major of age and that simply wants to be able to decide what is its model of state, is to say, if this prefecture of the State is to be monarch or republican. I, from here, also open an agenda of Republican themes. And what we don't know is whether Pedro Sánchez spoke on behalf of Miquel Iceta, too. And here I think we can't even sit on a competitive debate, and neither can we sit on President Torra's and his government's longings for food grants, for the health crisis, and for the health crisis that has arrived late and poorly, which we share, about the concern that we all share about how to be the course leader. I think one debate can't help another. I would say that a crisis cannot overcome other crises. And here you ask a lot of questions that need to be answered. And it is if they believe that the king emeritus has to return the money he has stolen or if they believe that the citizenry has to be able to decide freely whether he wants an unpunished monarch or whether he wants a president of an honest republic. It's just that. I believe that the crisis of the monarchy, moreover, is so profound that it is not enough to remove the title of emeritus to Joan Carles and or to end the actual inviolability. The crisis of the monarchy is a moral crisis, because it has played with its privileged position in favor. He has used his constitutional prerogatives to defraud money to the citizenry. So they're wrong when they say that you can't touch the monarchy now because that would generate instability. The monarchy is synonymous with scandal, corruption and instability. The monarchy has broken the constitutional pact and there is no impunity pact that can reshape it. Some days, huh? Some days we see, especially recently, as the supporters of the monarchy – which before it is called "Juancarlists", which is now called "Philippists" – defend it more by attacking its natural alternative, which is the republic, rather than by proper merit. And I think that, then, is already a symptom of his fever. In the 21st century the monarchy is an anachronistic institution that does not fit the democratic principle. But it's that, besides, it's full of corruption. And, besides, every time it's defended by a few people and it's more on the right. And so, basically, we don't understand why we have to keep putting up with it. Because, in addition, one of the main functions that they have is their representation, is the representation of Spain across the world. And of course, and we're wondering if an institution that's hit by corruption, that's hit by trippies, that's hit by frivolity can represent Spain in the world. Who's the picture he's giving himself from the country? What image projects to the rest of Europe that the head of state for forty years is in an unknown withdrawal removed from the possibilities of Swiss justice? What image projects the rest of Europe that the head of state does not comply with its fiscal obligations, its civic commitments and the most elementary equality before the law. And then we have Philip IV, who seems to want to put him around a species of stature as if he doesn't have any responsibility. Clearly, they mean he didn't know absolutely anything about what was going on at his house. And the truth is, of course, if we ask ourselves the question is in plan: this gentleman who, when I was supposed to be a criminal, was more than forty years old, he didn't know absolutely anything about what was going on at his house? And there's no good answer to that question. Because if he knew, he was an accomplice, and if he didn't, then someone who doesn't know what's going on at his house will tell me what the head of a country of more than 45 million inhabitants can be like. This is his king, the prepared one. "The preparation," they say. I think he was prepared to look at the other side and to hold his responsibility in front of public opinion. And for that reason, we will continue to insist. Citizenship is a major age and has the right to decide about its future. And, besides, the most important thing for us in this debate is not just the debate about whether we have a king or not. We're talking about a possibility for the future. We are talking about a republic, which simply means more democracy, means public exemplarity of all citizens, but mainly of public bodies. It means a republican agenda, it means sharing power and wealth, it means shielding public services, a new product model compatible with nature and with life and, also, a firm, robust system of protection of civil, political and social rights. And that's why this House is important to us. It's important to us, and we think it's important to the country, too. As a leftist, republican defending freedom, equality, fraternity, social cohesion and, above all, democracy, we believe that we can position ourselves before this scandal and that no one can pose as a profile. But we don't just want to talk about this, we also want to talk about the future. We want to talk about the future because in all contexts, but especially now that we are in a context of a deep crisis, we need answers, solutions, horizons. And if we need to offer them to us, they will end up offering them, so the most reactionary sectors, which are always willing to do so. Therefore, with the will to be useful to the citizenry we cannot profile ourselves before this crisis, as institutional, but, above all, moral, because the progress of humanity is not only technological development, it is not only digitization of the economy, that also, it is not only an ecological transition, that also, it is also about the values of the people who live there and, above all, the values of the people who are in a public channel. And, in this sense, honesty, empathy, humility, responsibility and, also, the capacity to sacrifice we consider to be those of the people who are in the vanguard. A capacity of sacrifices that have shown us enough, so far as the workers and the workers who, during the months of the pandemic, during the hardest months of confinement, have been willing to lay down their bodies, to play their life, to play their salvation to protect us, to heal us, to feed us and because we can all be home. Therefore, all these values that we claim to the citizenry, we must be the first to exercise them and the monarchy of exemplaryity has very little. We're in a moment where people are patenting, not up at the end of the month, they don't have the guaranteed habitation, they don't know if they'll lose their job. There are real personal and family dramas. When we were still not recovered from the 2008 crisis and its exit to the right, we were up to this. And, therefore, in the midst of this scene of anguish, inequality, we have a monarchy that is engulfed with corruption, frivolity, commissions and dark passages. That is why we cannot, I insist, share the words that say that this now does not touch, that this is not the time, that we cannot talk about the prefecture of the Government because we have a health, economic and social crisis with the excuse of instability. Clearly, the country needs to be stabilized. Clearly, the country needs to be stabilized, but it is that, as I said before, the monarchy is synonymous with instability. Because if a country is to be rehabilitated, what we need are institutions that are legitimized for the citizenry, they are structures that are recognized for the citizenry, solid, robust. We need a good foundation on which to build democracy. And if what we're doing is storing the misery under the captivator, the only thing the structures do is go running and democracy is getting stale. Therefore, let us not confront one crisis with another. We need to give a way out and a response to all the crises we have in the table. And that's done with more democracy. Democracy, democracy and democracy. This means a social state that shields public services and therefore guarantees social rights and decent living conditions: the right to housing, the right to decent work. It also means power-sharing, transparency, fighting corruption, and citizens can decide their future. And so does the citizenry say whether it wants a republic or a monarchy. And also, that all citizens are free in equal terms – they are free in equal terms. Therefore, it is not just a matter of whether we have a king or not; it is a question of what is the model of country we want. And there's no such thing as blackstone or multi-owners who speculate with a first-rate asset as housing. Nor is there a law that shields the interests of the great owners and does not protect the veins and the veins. A democratic republic does not have a political class with privileges and impunity. A democratic republic does not have a system of degraded public services. A democratic republic does not have externalisations, privatizations or retailings in essential services, such as health or residences. A democratic republic does not have a tax system that is full of tax evaders and tax fraudsters. Nor is it a tax reform that does not remain brave and that therefore does not redistribute wealth. To a democratic republic there is no violation of the fundamental rights, such as the rights to protest, to express, to vote, to freedom of association. That's why, too, what we're proposing – then she'll explain it to my partner Susanna Segovia – is ending up among other things with the offenses of injury to the crown. And a democratic republic does not have a product model that remains obsolete, that serves the interests of large multinationals and that is destroying the planet and the Earth more than exploiting the workers. This is not the case in our democratic republic. We know that there is nothing perfect, but we do believe that it is a good opportunity to move forward in rights, to move forward in democracy, to move forward in freedom, equality and fraternity. And what we're clear about is he won't store the red ones with the pa. And last but not least, he wanted to make some comments that President Tora had expressed during his speech. Today, unfortunately, we have returned to listen to the president, therefore, in an attitude of confrontation. In fact, it is not clear to us whether you want to end the monarchy or the central government. It is not clear to us whether you want to end the monarchy or simply want to discredit In Comú Puede. And I think it's sad, because any citizen of this country sees how you deal with each day of drowning, so, the incompetence of the Government of the Generality, the delay in managing the health crisis, with confrontation with some opposition forces, among which there is what I represent. And, besides, you, too, fill your mouth talking about the republic, but the republic, more than saying it, more than saying it, is to be practiced. And I think that you fill your mouth with the word "Republic" but then you pose at the side of the owners, immigrating from a housing crisis like which we suffer, adopting a decree that turns Catalonia into a great Airbnb. You fill the mouth of the word "Republic and externalize the tracing of cases of coronavirus to a branch of Ferrovial for 18_million euros, instead of reinforcing primary care and public health. You fill the mouth of the word "Republic, but after we pay, of the money of all and everyone, the highest private sanitation of the entire State per patient derived from the ICU to the hospitals. You fill the mouth of the word "Republic" and trepitate the republic value of the truth by saying one thing and making the counter, tell us Catalans and Catalans that we don't go out, but also inviting tourists to camp free for our streets. But they were against our tax reform and did not want to lower university taxes. Therefore, more than talking about "Republic, President, we consider that we should practice it, so we ask that lessons, few, that in fact lessons are very few republicans. Republicanism did not "better, better, republicanism went to cooperation and fraternity. Unfortunately, today we have lost a new opportunity to find this fraternity among the various forces of Parliament, mainly in the speech made by the President. I have to say that we also found him missing in the intervention of some members who have preceded me, but we will not give up; we will not give up because we consider that the outcome of this health, economic, social, but also institutional and moral crisis, must be done from fraternity, must be done from equality, must be done from freedom, and must also be done from humility. And, therefore, I encourage all of us here, all of us who have some kind of responsibility, to assume our responsibilities, to remain humble, to do everything we can and to cooperate with each other, because that was not just electoral results. We will leave a lot of people on the road, a lot of people who need us to cooperate, a lot of people who need us to reach great agreements. Therefore, call the elections when you have to call them. I already know that we would be in favour of calling them as soon as possible, but while – while – instead of looking at the moon, we do not look at the word, because we have a lot of people who are patenting, who need us and who ask us to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We now suspend the Ple until three-quarters of the late four. Thank you. [[The session is taken three quarters of four minutes late and two minutes later. He chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the First Vice-President, the Second Secretary and the Third Secretary. Attend the table the major and the Antoni Bayona.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.12.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Debate on the political situation created by the crisis of the Spanish monarchy (continuation)]] [[255-00016/12]] There is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.13.0	Good afternoon, Members, Members, President, Workers and Workers of Parliament, which makes it easier for us to hold this debate on the political situation created by the crisis of the Spanish monarchy today in an exceptional way. A debate that has enjoyed a classic previa, that are the blowbacks of some parliamentary group. And today we have seen as Ciutadans has manifested to avoid this debate that "the Head of State does not enter into the political game and is not the subject of debate. This is the undemocratic level that we have reached with regard to the monarchy and many other issues. We thought that the Lords of Citizens were the ones who said they would not allow first-class citizens and second-class citizens. But when it comes to defending class interests and country interests, you are very clear, and what they say is: "The Head of State does not enter into the political game and is not the subject of debate. We also want to tell you a couple of things, Mr. Carrizosa. You were talking about 3 per cent. Do you know who actually presented himself as the popular accusation during the entire 3_per_cent education phase? Actually, the CUP. And now he will also do the Sant Cugat Assembly, because we brought him to the CUP to our political program of the last municipal elections. And the second thing, Mr Carrizosa: the European monarchies of which you mentioned that you opposed or at least did not cooperate with Nazism... yes, they did Greek and Italian, and that is precisely why they are two republics. The Spanish monarchy is the exception. He's kept a restored king for a fascist dictator. So don't tell us it can be left and accept this. And third: the barroera comparison that has made between the Generality and the monarchy, well, it's that he speaks for himself, he hardly needs to comment. I don't agree with Mr. Torra's government and Mr. Aragonese, but at least it's a government chosen at the polls, which no Bourbon monarch will ever be. I was also wondering why we're attacking the monarch institution. We'll try to explain. The escape of King Emeritus Joan Carles from Borbó is one more element of the deep crisis that spills over the 78's rule. One more element, but one important element, cabdal. We are ahead of the crisis of the foundational and foundational pillar of the 78th Regime. That Joan Carles beat her hero like Felipe gives us the measure of how long our historical memory is and hers. Felipe was the name of the first Borbo who imposed blood and fire on the Catalan Countries, entering for Almansa, cremating Xàtiva and many other resistant populations, and finally occupying Barcelona, imposing the New Plant and deploying a ruthless repression. The Bourbons who came later were prone to corruption and politically they were always on the side of the reaction. Generations and generations of Republicans, Federals, anarchists, Reds and Independentists we have faced the monarchy, overthrowing them on two occasions. The last, on April 14, 31, when Francesc Macià proclaimed the Republic "interpreting the sentiment and the longings of the people who have just given us the vote. Franco restored this infamous dynasty in the person of Joan Carles I. He swore the principles of the Movement, all recognize – as he said – the political legitimacy that arose on July 18, 1936, and referred to the Civil War as a series of « sacrifices» – and I quote textually – « sad, but necessary for our country, because our country renewed its destiny. « Refresh your destiny again. Forty years of Faixista dictatorship summarizes in: « a series of sad sacrifices, but necessary for our homeland to re-establish its destiny. The bulk of the opposition ended up accepting him, and the Royal House was one of the pillars that endured the continuous passageways with the franchise. Pass them through where torture police, authoritarian courts, and entrepreneurs who were rich in receiving from the regime passed with impunity. Joan Carles was to complete what Franco, already dying, had noted as the main task: the indissolub unit of Spain. This would be one of the motivators that he was also brought to pick up the 23rd of February. Such a key role for the Gatopardian transition was to be protected by the regime. And that's like all the corruption scandals surrounding the monarch, just like the ones that ended up in the last few months, were silenced, if they tied through the same secret servants. The freedom of expression also remained unanswered when humorists were persecuted who joked, for example, about the hunting of the Mitrofan Os, up to Valtònyc, passing through the magazine El Thursday and the case of the king's photo cream. In cases where, by the way, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Spain for imposing a prison sentence on two independenceists who cremated the photo of the king – of the kings – in Girona in 2007, showing with this feeling the clear authoritative drift of the Spanish State. And in order to protect those who protect the unit of Spain, the return clause of the 78's rule, the Spanish State has acted and acts with criminal legal measures, such as the Law of Citizen Security or the law bites, with difficult consequences on the abscess of freedom of expression and political action when it comes to social movements, independence, republican or social political dissent. Special mention in this enumeration about the monarchy and its role in the Spanish State, which is worth doing to the fourth power, that they also look to protect the monarchic image through communication media. It means that the newspapers outside the Spanish State are the ones that have unravelled the Bourbon plots. Says a lot about the supposed independence of the state journalism. And remember today journalist Rebeca Quintáns, author of the biography A hit-and-run king, who if they didn't read it I recommend it, a biography that must be signed with pseudonym. Today they were interviewing the VilaWeb newspaper, and the question "Can we talk about the crisis of the regime? she answered that obviously, and made reference to the continuity of the structures of power and oligarchic classes. I said: "The crisis is very deep and it is possible that it will not end if there is an opposition force that wants to change things as powerful and determined as possible. From our point of view, this opposition force that wants to change things powerful and determined has a name, and it's independence. And it is that the monarchy is a central element of the persecution of the rights of the Catalan people and against the construction of the Catalan Republic. And this became very clear to us after Philip VI's October 3rd speech, legitimizing police rape. A « for them royal, the crowning of the son as worthy heir of the father, as worthy Philip of Borbo, worthy guardian of the unit of Spain. In short, let's go to the fore: the Bourbon monarchy is a decadent, deeply anti-democratic, corrupt and heritage institution of the Franco dictatorship and representing the economic and political interests of the ruling elites and oligarchies of the Spanish State. And that's the 78th rule. And that's what we're fighting on the left. The corruption corruption scandal accompanied by more than forty years of state cover, decades of tax and illegitimate wealth using public institutions as much as the state, like the Armed Forces, exclusively for personal gain and personal wealth, ends today with the self-proclaimed "more progressive government of history" – today it has also been mentioned – a government, Mr. Iceta, headed by the PSOE, a PSOE that participates in the state ommerty, and a Podemos and some commons that either want to pass by demonstrating their irrelevance in the Spanish execution or consent willingly. This morning Mrs. Albiach said: "Philip VI looks at another side. So I thought, "The common people look at the other side. He also spoke: "Spain or the money. We ask them: Spanish or a Catalan republic? A Catalan republic that adds majorities and supports, in this country, very large and majorities, a possible Catalan republic. Therefore, lords of the commons and lords of Podemos, Spain or a Catalan republic. Because the idea of Spain is intrinsically linked to the monarchical institution, and that United We can, as much as We can as United Left as the commons, renounce the construction of a republican subjectivity that allows us to articulate a social majority that impugns the regime until and as soon as the monarchy is in total surrender, it is very worrying, and we are concerned, because we think that with its attitude what they also do is support the regime, because what unites them, the constitutionalists, by all means, is Spain. On the other hand, whether it is here or there, what it is to advance towards a republicanism that does not want to give continuity to this idea of Spain that has its foundation in the privileges of the ruling classes, that go from the aristocracies of the landowners, the greats of Spain, to the board of directors of the IBEX 35, but as a key element it has the freedom of the different integrated peoples of the State to choose their future. And we take advantage of this House, we'll call them back directly. We feel decedent with the company of the commons when from home or from out of the country they make bats and make videos. Mrs. Albiach also said: "I do not treat the city as stupid. Apply the board, because you are not on the sofa at home, you are in the Government of the Spanish State together with the PSOE, PSOE which also forms part of this classroom and rule. In the purest style of A el Capone, the bill for the Borbo dry cleaners will be the Saudi commission, but it is obvious that we are ahead of a criminal structure. "The Bourbons are thieves," said the singer, thieves and warlords, "we don't forget: the Spanish State is the seven-year power in arms sales and, if we take into account that its economy is not in place, we deduce that the economic weight of the arms trade is proportionally greater than that of the other states. And it's that the relationship between the Bourbons and the Saüd Dynasty has been going on for four decades. Year 77 the Saudi prince made a loan worth $100 million to King Joan Carles, a loan that was never returned. Mr. Juan Carlos I, who today provokes this debate, we are very clear and believe that he is public and notorious, and there are some large majority in this country that say so, he did not come to install democracy but to install a program, the 78-rule program, with an operating system to benefit the usual ones. And it seems to me that King Philip VI is quite different from his father: the texts come together in the eyes; the son gathers himself to his father, as the inviolability gathers himself to impunity and the millions of donations gather together to corrupt them, as the « after them gathers itself to the « everyone on the ground. Texts come together in pots, as the silences seem silent and Juan Carlos gathers in Franco. The texts are assembled in the pots and Felipe is assembled in Juan Carlos. Looks like the son. Do you know that it doesn't fit into a Spanish monarchy? A republic, a Catalan republic. In the debate monarchy versus republic there are only two options: those who have historically endorsed a regime of privileges, capitalism of friends, corruption, humiliation and authoritarianism, and those who have fought for a just society, fraternal, equality, free people; those who, by active and passive today, allow the continuity of this regime of anti-democratic privileges and deny us this equality society for which so many fought. If you, some of you, want it from today, delenda is monarchy, to build this republic, the Catalan republic that will always fraternize with the republicans of the state, and that in respect of them and the values that they incarnate, will self-determine. If you stop it, delinquent is democracy, in Spain. And it will then be, with greater force, in memory of the Republican fighters and fighters, that we will advance from the popular unit to the Catalan Republic of men and women free. The republic, however, is not just a form of state, Mr. Torra, republicanism is a way of hearing power and society. We want the republic and we want the republican freedom, to have the material conditions of life assured so that we do not have to depend on any oligarchic or arbitrary power. Republic is redistribution of wealth. Republic is that there are no cases without people and people without cases. Republic is pa, ground and work. And, Mr. Torra, of course there is no king in a republic, but neither is there speculation, nor is there anyone who speculates about housing, there are no Pharaohic projects, such as the Barcelona World, that pre-characterize workers, or ant monsters like the C-32, or an economic model that favors them forever. Or a model centered on the tourist monoculture. Mr. Torra and Mr. Aragones, his country model, or, like the one they've applied so far, makes Republican independence lose credibility and support. I've told them more than once: they're more Republicans than ever. The enemy of the Catalan Republic is not only a king, but any kind of oligarchy that condemns workers to precarious lives and misery. It'll take longer or less. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I ended up, President, if I may – they could still support it, but the monarchy will end, and with it a whole rule that many of you have built up as guarantors. We are not guarantors of anything else, but depositaries of the yearning for freedom, equality and justice that our republic will embody.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.14.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.15.0	Now I'm done. For Abdó Terrades ; for the U d'Octubre ; passing through the Pact of Tortosa, which unites federals of Catalonia ; for the Country Valencià, the Isles and Aragó ; the Isabel Vila, Empordanese trade unionist ; Aurora Picornell, Mallorcan communist ; Federica Montseny, anarchist and prime minister during the Republic, the Catalan republic will be possible and we will fall the monarchy. Look at the republic! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.16.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the parable of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.17.0	Thank you very much, President. Just over a year ago, we were already holding a debate on the monarchy here. That day I recalled that in the list of the best democracies in the world that elaborates every year The Economist there were republics, right, but it was especially noteworthy that the first posts occupied him parliamentary monarchies: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Great Britain and Spain. Yes, I know it's not funny, but Spain is on that list. This may surprise some, but not those we already know for a very long time, that the parliamentary monarchy perfectly connects the historical continuity of these nations, their political and cultural upsurge, with democratic modernity. And that ends up setting up solid, powerful, healthy democracies. Today, that debate returns to this chamber with particularly delicate and complex circumstances. I'm not going down, I warn you, to the mud and mud they want to lead us to. I am therefore going to focus my intervention on another aspect that stands out especially in our parliamentary monarchy, which is its spirit, its vocation of coexistence and agreement among all Spaniards, all of them, think what they think. Because the main threat to our country, even greater than the economic crisis that is going to be terrible, is the possibility of resurrecting the old ghosts of the Cainism of the two Spains. You have to avoid whatever it is. As difficult as it is, today more than ever we have to claim harmony and coexistence among all Spaniards. You do not make it easy for us: you bring this debate here today from opportunism and remarkable pettyness, constantly repeating terms such as « to overthrow, « to fall, « to break, « to destroy, « when today we should all be talking about « to unite, « to reactivate, « to sew, « to share. They don't make it easy for us, and I don't find it easy to talk about concord and coexistence in front of Quim Torra, his writings still seem deceivable to me, his way of ruling, sectarian. But we will have to continue living together as Spaniards within this parliamentary monarchy, that yes, always under the rule of law, that I know is the part that does not make you grace, or your comrades of Republican Left. We will have to continue to live together also with the representatives of the commons and Podemos, who today shake the extremities, finally, compulsively and slightly overworked, perhaps because they do not have the courage to carry out the exercise of intellectual honesty that involves recognizing the titanic effort of coexistence that their ideological predecessors of the Communist Party made, some ideological predecessors that today appear before our eyes as authentic giants if we compare them with the gallinaceous flight of their heirs. How much you should learn from them. We're also going to have to live with the people of the Socialist Party, even if we don't like Pedro Sánchez at all, a president who refers to himself as ‘my person, maybe that's why he's so easy to lie. Don't lie to him, he must lie to his person. Well, we do not like the Sánchez government, nor Pedro Sánchez himself, but we will live with the socialists, but rather with them or with the acronyms of his party, which is the least, we will live with the hundreds of thousands, millions of honest socialists who, feeling legitimately republicans – have all the right of the world to feel that way – they are not willing to throw away what we have been able to build the Spaniards in the last forty years. Because that is the key, that is the fundamental issue: what we Spaniards have built over the past forty years is very, very good, however much they try to discredit it here today. Together we have achieved the best levels of well-being in our entire history, together we have been able to lead in two different stages the levels of employment and growth throughout Europe, together we have celebrated the cultural, sporting, scientific, world-class events, unprecedented until then in the history of Spain. And together, so it was, we were elected to hold the most important international peace summits in the world, which is the way in which the international community recognized in Spain not only its democratic quality, but one very important thing, the embrace we were able to give us all Spaniards in the transition to overcome old grudges. That's Spain, ladies and gentlemen. That's Spain. And we are not going to spoil it, we are not going to allow it, so today we want to appeal, once again, to harmony and coexistence among all, and to do so here precisely, in Catalonia, in your Parliament, where our party is small, indeed, but it has never lost its vocation to address all Catalans and all Spaniards, think what they think, vote what they vote. All of them are told that we will be able to live up to the very difficult challenge ahead. Visca Catalunya, live Spain and live the king. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.18.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.19.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors. The Emeritus king has gone, and not by surprise, he has gone warning, he has gone with absolute impunity. He made the fact that some media had already published in mid-June, like Diario 16, and he did not go with the connivance of the stages of the State, which would have been a scandal, he did not go with the State, which is not only worse than it is directly a scam; a more scam. He went on vacation to spend everything he stole from us. And there is no presumption of innocence because the evidence overflows and why he has given up giving his face or defending himself. He ran away because everything we all knew was true. For the most part, we have to read the international media, because the Spanish media have either not dared or are part of the same conxorx that endures the State from the pacts of 78. And meanwhile, the Supreme Court – yes, the Supreme Court – has targeted another band. Where is the zeal with which the independenceists pursue? Persecutions, independenceists, by the only fact of being. Spain's justice should establish a general cause, yes, a general cause against fraud and corruption. But no, they don't care about this. The only general cause they're interested in is against ideas and a political proposal: independence; against that, however. One more indecency, the referee wears the wrong team's samarreta and when he changes his rules. The guarantors of the Constitution must explain to us where the equality is now before the law. They are courts of the Inquisition, and punish if you are an independentist and put on a red captive if you are caste or monarchy, which would come to be the same. The Supreme Court is today the most lethal weapon against the phonenal rights, a court to which the European courts address daily, and today another time, with a new great legal victory today of Councillor Lluís Puig. A Supreme Court always complacent with the status quo, and tough, come with those who want to change the truth. Corrosion until the spring of the bone and partner of the deep state, apply the raons of state instead of the raons of the right. Spanish, a social and democratic state of law? If anyone still asks themselves, we haven't done it for many years, but if someone still asks themselves, you've got another answer. Pere Aragones said a week ago: "I am a criminal organization, and against this mafia, against this stage that is corrupt by definition, we can only have a duere: to bring down the rule and advance towards the Catalan Republic. And we have to do it because there are others looking at another gang. Political progressism in Spain is no longer expected: if it has not reacted now it will never do so. Today I come to the top of the statements of socialist leaders vindicating the republic, but only when they do not have responsibilities or when they militate to young people, or in the photos of the PSC of my people, from Palafrugell, to the square, always with the tricolor: where are they today? Very easy, blowjob, and very false at the time of truth; the tricolor, in the calaix, and the crown, in the head. And no less guilty is United We can, not because its lack is more difficult, but because more people had placed hopes on it, and neither, nor have they done anything. The Emeritus king has gone to save the monarchy and to save his son. But, obviously, the effect was the opposite. Today the monarchy dances, trembling by the end, and the state is weaker than ever, and it's not for the PSC, it's not for the PSOE, it's not for Podemos. The CEO gives us many leads, and points out clearly: he tells us about the people who are not able to say the parties of the State. And to take advantage of it, to take advantage of it to bring down a 78-year-old rule; to take advantage of it to make good our rights many times strewn; to take advantage of it to deepen democracy, democracy indeed, because more democracy also includes the right to self-determination. Against the monarchy, ballots and votes; against the monarchy, self-determination and freedom; against the monarchy mafia, Catalan republic; like the model of governance, republic; like values, republican values. And today no one – no one, no one – has the right to pose a surprise face. Some of us, from the Republican Left of Catalonia, have almost a century ago proposed by the republic as the model, and we have spent many years, many, nedantly countercurrent, denouncing the evils of this Bourbon dynasty. Also when it was a taboo, when we didn't have the support of another political formation, I can't stand it, when the media didn't get to focus on it, because to store it was one more of the pacts of the Transition. We have fought many years ago demanding transparency, working at the Congress to find out everything, and with opacity always, always as the answer; they want to put the monarchy's fevers on the table; they want to prove how the structure of the State stands, very alone, but it is not a complaint, years against it. Today we are pleased that the Republic and the end of the monarchy are already a majority idea in Catalonia, that it is one of the great social consensus of this country and that it has a broad support in this Parliament. We're stronger to take care of them, and we need to take advantage of it. The same Oriol Junqueras all just dimarts denounced him from the Lledoners prison. We suffer a corrupt monarchy to the insides, at levels that can only be heard because this corruption is structural. A scandal of unusual proportions, silenced thanks to the connivance of the main Spanish political parties and of some state apparatuses that have experienced this ethical and political corruption. We could go back now, and see how dark it is the Bourbon step from its beginnings, but maybe not the one that upsets you. If they haven't done it yet, you can read the magazine Sàpiens, which collected it very well to the June number: they will have fun, or they will throw up a stone, that I don't know anymore. In fact, there was not much to see what the role of the monarch was in the year 81, with the coup d'état, and how no one wanted to know the true role of the monarch; how it was to impose a report to avoid the search for the fund, at the risk of breaking a wire that came from the Francoism and allowed to perpetuate all an apparatus that came from the regime and that controlled, and poorly controlled, all the springs of the State. It's also illustrated how they tried to make someone believe, when it was already impossible and unstoppable that you first came to judge a family case, the Noos case; they also wanted someone to believe that no one knew anything, that Urdangarin acted alone and stole without help. And it didn't stick, for a large majority of people it didn't stick, and now they're going to try it again. Journalistic investigations point to bank accounts with around 100 million dollars coming from commissions for public works or from the sale of weapons. And it also seems credited a fortune of up to 2,000 million euros. I accepted the same Philip VI, making the most of the pandemic, when he spoke of possible irregularities in the King Emeritus' accounts. Res again. One more scandal in a line that's historical. And they'll tell us again that he was acting alone. So no. I wasn't acting the sun. You're obvious. And, with him, we have to get everyone down. It's a democratic hygiene duty and Esquerra will invest every effort he makes. There's plenty of smoke curtains. We have enough information to make it clear that it is not a side event, but a structural problem. We have enough information to be able to state without any doubt that the impunity of action is agreed with the Government of the State and with the judicial system. The State has protected the crown and the emeritus from its designation and has made one of the balls of balls so that nothing ever changed. The monarchy as one of the great guarantors of the 78th Regime. The escape kept the same parameters as usual, complicity of the State to avoid judicial and democratic control. A fact they have historically repeated. A fugitive who directly recognizes an irregular behavior, with so much bar – so much bar – that they are able to make an unaudited statement to any democracy – unaudited. And we can't pass people through this state complicity. « The most progressive government in history. They told us. But in eight months he hasn't changed the king. The repression against independence continues and under the pillars of the 78's regime has dared to take it on board. The continuing impunity of the judiciary, the abuse of the prison law is obvious and, above all, it is shown that they are spying on us. Against independence, everything, everything, everything goes. Convicted, investigated, engaged, threatened and spyed on a band. All against a democratic proposal. Prison, exile and constant repression, only to want to build a net Catalan republic, free and solidary, a country more just for everyone. And while they don't even have the shame to hide. They deal with the emerit king's escape, and the president does it directly. It's no longer worth talking about deep state. It is the government chosen for suffering who escape democracy and who does the big eyes before the constant fraud and the thief, absolutely alien to the democratic principles, without the will to break with the rule's heritage. Today we have to condemn everything: commissions, pre-bends, tax offences... and a long, long... that we would never end. Today it's time to denounce and reprimand those who steal, but also those who let them do it, institutions and parties, with PSOE and Podemos in the front, those who veto the investigation commissions or park the complaints because it's disgust. And we must highlight the contrast again: the independence of rights and freedoms, constantly persecuted; the feudal monarchy, which kept its historical behavior, always unpunished. Before that, the complaint is imposed. But more than the denunciation, which is to show the strength of democracy and republicanism today. What we have to do, what we do is even stronger with our proposal: amnesty and self-determination as the only way to resolve the conflict; democracy and human rights before the 78th and immobility rules. As you can see, our proposal will continue to be more democratic. The more impunity, the more firm in self-determination. And, today, this Parliament, before the democratic scandal of the past few days, has the obligation and the duty to show the strength of the Catalan people; to put on the table one of the great consensus of the country, republicanism, by fraternity with the Spanish people, which is not worth living, but also, and above all, as the formula, as the only formula to resolve the political conflict that our companies and companies have in prison and exile. Against his barbarism, against the mafia, against the regime of 78, amnesty, self-determination and republic, Catalan republic; versus the corrupt monarchy, Catalan republic. Visit the Republic and Visca Catalunya free. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.20.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.21.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. Councillors, Vice-Presidents, Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, today is a day when it is again clear that no one can be trusted in the Spanish State. You can't trust the king, you can't trust the government, you can't trust justice. I see it all over the world, everybody knows it, everybody says it. And especially today also with the feeling that has come out of the legitimate councillor, the Councillor of Culture, in Lluís Puig, who puts in full that the Supreme Court is neither the organ nor the legitimate nor competent to demand an extradition nor to judge it. I said the UN, I said the UN Arbitrary Detention Working Group, I said European justice, I said Belgian justice. It is fixed that even so it is not possible to trust the Spanish justice, that, thanks to the doctrine of exile, the Spanish State has folded again. If the Supreme is not competent, this is a criteria that applies to everyone. Three years of exile, with victorious victory, if the Supreme is not the competent organ, the trial is nil, as Belgian justice says, and political prisoners must be immediately released. And we have to start this plenary this way, with a fact that happened today, August 7. President, advisors and advisors, the Spanish State is failing. I have demonstrated Lluís Puig's feeling and I have demonstrated the severe corruption crisis with the escape of the king, the head of state, the head of state of the Spanish State. The masters who hold this state have begun to give in and are so ill that they cannot support themselves despite the efforts that some make, that they want to perpetuate this marred democracy that is Spanish democracy. It's been a long time since the 78's rule made water, because the foundations that were laid in the wrong name"transition were not well settled. And some of them don't want to talk about it, these fears. There are those who annoy them, talking about the King of Spain – and today, here at the plenary, we have seen it – like Ciutadans, the PSC, the PP... Unionist parties have a basis. Esconti'm, the Government of the Generalitat, since March 10, before the country is confined, President Torra already spoke with all the presidents of the parliamentary groups to face a difficult situation. There have been appearances in the Parliament of Catalonia, appearances asked for by President Torra who did not want to substantiate because they had to be made telematically, telematical appearances of advisors, full on residences, on economic measures, on health crises. And now, as close to a fact as difficult as the flight of a head of state, the Parliament of Catalonia is the only institution in the whole of Spain that can make a pronouncement today. The Government of Catalonia has always given its face, not as the Spanish monarchy does these days, which for the moment today we see that they are at the Palau de Marivent, they have gone on holiday with total tranquility. And the problem is that we can talk about everything here, but we can't talk about independence, we can't talk about self-determination, we can't talk about the monarchy, we can't talk about the king or anything else. And we see with surprise, so some are very nervous when this comes up. Because it became manifest that it was not a transition, but a covert continuation of the principles of that dictatorial rule. He agreed to a non-shock-shaped transition with the Franco dictatorship and, with this, he allowed it to be perpetuated until the present day of institutional, political, judicial, heretical stages of the Franco regime. An example is not the Bourbon monarchy and especially the escaped Emeritus monarch. That the monarch is converted to head of state was one of the last wishes of dictator Francisco Franco, that he appointed him on the basis of a law of succession approved for the Franco regime and that he swore loyalty to the principles of the Movement. For this reason some may call the king alive. This makes him, the monarch emeritus, as well as King Philip VI, so it is because he decided a law approved for a dictatorial rule built on death and destruction and a long repression of the Spanish Civil War. There is also no doubt that the artifexes of the 78th Regime performed a makeup, whitening operation because it is tolerated that a monarch posed to say for the dictator hold this role preponderant in a supposed democracy and entangled the crown as a foundational institution of the Transition with the will to simulate the model process and exaggerate what Spain had to place on the central lane of democracy, modernity and freedom. But the only balance we can make and the authentic full service of the Spanish monarchy has been to ensure the survival of the Francoist status of preserving the unity of Spain and enriching itself with individual title. The current situation of the monarchy is a further example of what is described as all this State, like all the apparatuses of the Spanish State, of a judicial, political and economic system that drifts. The monarchy is drifting. The Spanish State is failing and the 78th rule, this son of this Transition, is sinking. The current structures of the State are acute and do not have possible lifeguards. Joan Carles I, who was the head of state for forty years, played the two to try to avoid passing accounts before Swiss and Spanish justice. This is serious. There are no precedents throughout Europe in the 20th and 21st century. You're serious. The list is long, at least from which it has been published, especially in journalistic foreigner information. We've already seen that many Spanish middlemen have kept for a few years a congenial paper, flattering and covering up the monarchy. Botswana's hunt, the Noos case – which led the royal son-in-law to arrest for fraud –, the fiscal paradise accounts, the monarchy's dubious gifts, the charge of 100-million-dollar commissions for Spanish-owned contracts to build the AVE in Mecca and between Medina and Mecca, in Saudi Arabia – which is certainly seen as saying that Joan Carles is now on her run – or possible commissions through oil. It is worth saying, however, that the crown enjoyed a huge reputation and popularity and acceptance among the citizens of the State. At the middle of the 1990s – it seems to me that Mr.Iceta –, according to the CIS, the confidence in the monarchy was 7.5_per_cent on a scale of 0 to 10, a popularity that followed the stellar of immature campaigns that were gleaned for the supposed decision paper that was attributed to Joan Carles I in the fraction of the coup d'état of 81, of the Civil Guard and of the army. But the first clues of these corrupt Joan Carles and began to make the eyes open to the citizenry. And so much so that the CIS, miraculously, stopped asking about the monarchy, we didn't know the opinion of the Spaniards. The Spanish government, of all colors, preferred to obviate the question from abroad and only the Government of the Generality, through the CEO, asked this question to the whole Spanish State and Catalonia, about the perception of the monarchy of the State, in a recent one, it seems to me that of the past year or of these past months, of what was the result. And the result, the reality, is that the support of the monarchy is very small, that in Catalonia this support is still lower, that the barometer of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio du mos de març is that a 71,2_per_cent Catalan and Catalans want a Catalan republic and that only a 14_per_cent wants the monarchy. Catalonia is a republican. And on the basis of that, Mr.Iceta made us one... "Ecculti'm, President of the Generality, Mr.Totra, you have to defend what most Catalans and Catalans want. The majority of Catalans and Catalans, a 71,2_per_cent, the month of March, before a runaway from the head of state was known, said that it wanted a Catalan republic and a 14_per_cent Spanish monarchy. I understand that the President of the Generality is acting in defence of these values for the majority of Catalans and Catalans. Now, he said: "No, it's that on the basis of this... – Mr.Iceta – "it's that consensus is to be built on these realities. So, we have a majority and we have a broad consensus, and what do we do? What do we do? What is the role of reform on which consensus is based? Because, of course, this consensus has to go according to the interests at the right time. Why was there consent to Catalan citizenship to apply 155, yes or no? No, and they're going to apply it. To now apply a 155 sanitarium and remove the competitions in the sense of the coronavirus, was there consent to Catalan citizenship? No – voted for the Parliament of Catalonia – and well they applied it. When was LOAPA agreed? Neither did they, and well they applied it. Or, for example, now, to steal the three-time novelists from the Junctions of Catalonia to devote them to no-know-what, is there consensus or is there no consensus? Neither do I, and I'm fine with it. According to what, we have to find great consensus, and according to what we don't, because the BOE and the Council of Ministers already fix it. And, well, I understand that a 71,2_per_cent of Catalonia's citizenship that the republic wants must be a good basis for building a broad consensus, and only a 14_per_cent..., which certainly does not agree with those who today have defended the Spanish monarchy here in the Parliament of Catalonia. The monarchy has found the necessary support among all the powers of the State to be able to protect itself and continue forward, as today we have been able to see with the different Unionist forces, Ciutadans, PSC and PP, to cover up their shames and prevent citizens from expressing themselves critically. An attempt has been made to silence and intimidate any initiative and any question of the monarchy, at whatever price; here in Parliament we have seen a clear example, that there was only one wish that this House should be celebrated because this is not important, this is not important. This also forms part of this strategy to silence this bust of the Spanish monarchy that took place all the time. Because it can be done at the same time, because it can be critical with the corrupt monarchy, with a rising head of state, and a government can continue to manage the crisis of the coronavirus, as Dr. Argimon himself said today, who announced massive population cracks, massive tests of citizenship, and continue to give response and solvency, as President Torra very well explained during all these months, week after week, here in the Parliament of Catalonia to deal with a delicate situation. It can do anything else. There's no excuse to love us, there's the coronavirus, so we're not talking about the state crisis in the Spanish State; no, that's not right. It can do anything else. And so much so that today's Parliament of Catalonia, and for a long time, this will to silence it was patent: not letting a commission of inquiry of the monarchy run away; putting forward proposals for resolution, the same common ones, the same government, suspicions for the Constitutional Court. We have also seen how this will of question and silence has gone to the city: people tried and exiled to sing, to make songs, to write... Yes, yes, you may laugh, but there are people who are in exile to say that King Borbo is a thief and it turns out that it is a truth. [[Some applause.]] And that's not thanks because it affects people's lives. Or people who write and perform puppets with monarchy content have also had reprisals. The freedom of expression has been undermined in a state, in this state, precisely so as not to be able to speak of the monarchy. It's a repair of all these victims of the repressive machinery against dissent and criticism. After the monarch and at the side of the monarch, therefore, there is an oligarchy of state powers that have long been making and disbanding with a single objective: its benefit for the unity of Spain. Because in this unit, which is this excuse for perpetuating a weak, not exemplary democracy, not homologable to a Europe of freedom, of respect for the fundamental rights... The independenceists have long since shown it, they have long since seen it; we have seen this lack of democratic culture in the State. We've been reporting it to Europe for a long time. The prosecution, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme are always ready to pursue any dissident and who questions the democracy of this Spanish State, because if you are looking for the monarchy, you are looking for the whole system. Because the monarchy is a face of the same coin as the entire Spanish state. And Joan Carles I 'nva, but the corruption of the monarchy is left; the corruption of the head of state is left; the repression of the head of state is left. It is not the great problem that Spain has only the monarchy, it is a clear symptom of this democratic deterioration of the state structures. And the monarchy sinks, but it doesn't sink alone. Because Spanish republicanism is neither expected nor expected, and even less so the Spanish republican political parties, which supposedly are very progressive in the Spanish State, but which are well installed in power, well installed in the chair, never better, and help to maintain the 78th rule of the monarchy, and to store its corruption, until they are necessary accomplices to the escape of Joan Carles I. And of all these powers, the Spanish government has stood up, which was, as the defender of this systemic corruption that represented the Spanish monarchy, first silenced any criticism, withdrawing the questions of the CIS and engaging in the persecution of any critical element. And with the current government, see how he worked to protect the king, to help him leave the State of Hope, the whole government, the ministers, with Vice President Calvo as head of the orchestra of this operation to save the King Emeritus. In the moment of major crisis of the Spanish monarchy, we have seen as Spanish Republicanism and especially the Spanish Republican parties have not given signs of life to defend a Spanish republic. If they wanted a moment, if they wanted a moment, now was the time, now is the time, but we see them silently we see them. We see them very obedient, schoolgirls of the monarchy. And, well, listen, I'm asking myself..., now it's not Congresswoman Albiach, but I'm asking me gentlemen of commons, gentlemen of Podemos, why do they want power, why do they want to rule, why do they want to be ministers, why do they want to be mayors? Why? If they then act in a form as conservative or more conservative than Spanish dreets. If when they are to change from the government, from the power that the citizens have theoretically given them, from their ministries and from their mayors, what they do is help to escape the king. And you, listen to me, can't get past this. You're flying up the king's plane. I don't know if in Arabia... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.22.0	Congressman, that's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.23.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.24.0	Go on, Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.25.0	I already know he doesn't like to feel this, but it's reality, ladies and gentlemen of the commons – it's reality. You go up the plane to the king's side, leaving or to Saudi Arabia or the Dominican Republic [[remorse of the voice]] because they're doing nothing to stop it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.26.0	One moment, Mr. Batet. One moment – one moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.27.0	They're not doing anything to stop it. Why do we want power if after they have what they do is act in a totally conservative way? It's more – it's more – we can do what we've seen is tweet. Shut up! What a tweet they've done, huh? They tweeted in which they said..., the vice president Pablo Iglesias said that to make public the king's escape, so, well, like the vice president..., that they find it a very unworthy question and that it left the monarchy in a very compromised situation. That's all they've done. Listen to me, and more, listen to me, which initiates have you got? If you don't have any initiative! Captain. Miri, from our motions for resolutions we will pass a few initiatives because they can do from the government to Madrid. They already know that our will is not the reform of the State, but we will make them a series of proposals so that they can be pulled forward. Because Congresswoman Albiach was saying that the monarchy is just as unstable. It was about 2,000_million euros going to the head of State, which is a dark retreat, that in the current context of poverty, this... And what do they do? They haven't made a king! – they didn't do it. And, at times, they say... listen to me, an idea: remove the biting law, that people may have freedom of expression. Simple, huh? It's just, uh... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... That's to say... and we could tell him all the benefits the king, the Royal House, etc. has. That the PSC was part of the system we already knew. They don't fool us. I mean, this... listen to me, more monarchic than the PSC there are few people in Catalonia. I mean, no, we already know, it doesn't make any sense... No news on the front. Now, that we can and the common SCP schoolgirls act on this subject and the way they did, man, with a little embarrassing it is. Because theoretically you come from a tradition of a Catalanism of the left, of the PSU, of the Initiative, etcetera, that, well..., that you did not have these vestiges of so much monarchic submissiveness. And in this sense, of course, this is very devastating from a democratic point of view. Because this link between Philip VI and corruption and authoritarianism does not only see him for a lineage of genetic, genealogical descent and that links him to all the historical whites of the Bourbons, which we could certainly make here, some historian, a longer list, but also because he certainly knew information, as the press says, and just as it appeared. And what does the government of Pedro Sánchez do? Absolutely respect, confidentiality, because there are things you can't explain, the secrets of state, huh? It must be like this spying, that Mr. Knows now, right? I, moreover, organizes a great encounter of autonomous presidents in La Rioja presided over by Philip VI. And we, the president, want to congratulate him because the president of the Generality responded to the feeling of majority of the Catalan society, of this 71,2_percent Catalans who want a republic, and did not participate in this elevation to the monarchy that we saw last week, did not go to the meeting to form part of this side, this conxorx of a monarchy that has deprived the citizens, that has persecuted critics, and with the connivance of other powers of the State, and that has blocked any parliamentary initiative of this chamber, was whatever it was and demanded to hold any monarchy accountable. And as this happens, in Spain, silence reigns, and today, all of us on vacation, in August, it's not like I'm taking this job, is it? All on vacation, I don't know if Doñana, I don't know where they are, but everyone, all on vacation and all quiet, when it's a very serious matter. And this situation evidence..., this connivance of the supposedly progressive Spanish parties, of the Spanish State, tells us that Spain is irreformable. Because they don't want to. Because they can and won't. Because you can, but they don't fly. And that our path is the right path, that is to build an independent Catalonia in the form of a republic. And for these reasons we have made a great deal of effort during all these last times. I want to recall the state violence endorsed by King Philip VI in his speech from '' to them on the 3rd of October, in which he threw his institutional and neutral role into the rubble and became a militant of unionism. Also, his paper stands out at the time of trying to convince companies to march in Catalonia, with his 155 businesses. Certainly, Lords of Podemos, this can also be repealed, if they want, that they have not yet repealed it. They can also repeal it, this decree of the law, for the flight from Catalonia. And to save the monarchy and the status that has remained for these forty years. The crown has lost all credibility and empathy. History is witness, therefore, to the majority of Catalans and Catalans' willingness to decide their future. And once again, Mr President, regrettably, we find that there is no desire for dialogue, that there is no chance of dialogue, and there will be no dialogue, because there is no incentive. Why, if at these times they don't want to face it, how do they want to face other issues? The Spanish State has a lack of democracy, transparency, freedom and civic empowerment, and the monarchy has ensured its continuity thanks to the Spanish Constitution, the sacred Spanish Constitution, as it says. What should Spanish Republican parties theoretically do to get a Spanish republic? What should they do? Home, a path that the Catalan independenceists already know. You should go to a few elections with a Republican program. A majority of Members of Parliament should be elected at the Congress of Deputies. You should propose a reform of the Constitution. You should propose a reference. The result of the reference should be signed by the king. The king would have to authorize it, which applied to the BOE, and then he would have to call another election to choose another Congress to revalidate what was voted on in reference. The reform of the State is therefore impossible. And the more we know how it ends, because it's the same as the Catalan Independenceists did, and the same legitimacy that the Spanish Republicans can have, we have the Catalan Independenceists, and we have the U of October, and we know how it ends because the crime is the same, that it's the rebellion and the siege, and we know how the Spanish State acts despite European justice and despite justice... the United Nations and etc. He ends up in prison, exile, repression, and fuck-up. This is the way they have to act. We know that, because the crime... was acting the same way. And well, before this State in permanent crisis, which endorses this corrupt monarchy, which has a government that works with the former king's escape and is forged with a party structure, communication media, you will function, an economic system that gives coverage to them and pours the evils of the Franco regime, there are only two realistic and possible options: the Spanish monarchy or the Catalan Republic. And our way is the way we took a long time ago and today is a good opportunity to reaffirm it, the way of the U of October and the way of the 27th of October, the correct way that must lead us to build the Catalan Republic, because Catalonia is republican, it has shown me of envelopes and our reference is on the right of self-determination. We are closer to the independence of Catalonia than to any possibility of dialogue and reform and will to reform the Spanish State. Because we're already seeing it at these times, even supposing the most progressive government in history. And we know that the only way is to build a Catalan republic, which is to bring us to the freedom of our prisoners and the return of exiles, which is why many of us continue to be political. President, all our support. We believe that his attitude of firmness is totally compatible, giving his face constantly in health management, very serious and economic, urgent and emerging and social of the coronavirus, but at the same time posing a huge look to the Spanish State, which is here today, thanks to his petition in his parliamentary office, the only institution of the Spanish State that shows that there is a difficult crisis of the State, that is to address it urgently and that does not go through magical solutions but goes through political making, acting with responsibility, with the will of dialogue but with an objective, that is to say freedom and that is to say the Catalan Republic. Thank you all very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.28.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and to respond to the group and sub-groups, the President of the Generality has a reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.29.0	Well, good thing it's late again. I will respond to each of the groups, in the first place in Ciutadans, the Mr. Carrizosa who, going, for what I seem to hear, I would say that in sum seems very good to him everything that is going on, in short, no? Looking at him as a more spectator. In fact, I don't miss out on the fact that for you, the unity of the country, the flag and the king... you were born because of this and so much that can alter some of these three assumptions, so, the blurring out, and so much so that you, what costs, pass what you pass, will be here, and this involves a lot of imprisonment, exile... but for you it involves being complicit in corruption. I would preach to you to reflect on this unquestionable support to the monarchy in view of the monumental escandol that has passed. And you said, "This is a matter of grief today. So miri, I hope so. I hope so; I have to say that I have often felt more proud to be a member of this chamber... Well, let's say yes, to be a member of this chamber, therefore, precisely because before the conxorx of silence that has happened in the Spanish State this chamber today rises up like a bulwark of democracy and republicanism. And that seems to me to be particularly relevant. I hope, therefore, that I do weigh and hope that I do serve as a reflection, therefore, of many people who may be following this debate and who see that little reduction, right? A little like the gals, that little gals village, we're still here to defend the Republican values and break this conxorx of silence. You referred to a whole series of other issues that I am at your disposal for twenty-four hours a day to answer them, because I dedicate twenty-four hours a day to fighting the coronavirus, to fighting this pandemic. I'm not doing anything else, for the sake of the salvation and welfare of all the citizens, so I have to tell you that I'm very much sorry that you say that I'm doing nothing or that I'm just like the indicators of death. Every hospital and every person hospitalized, every death, you think I feel it, I think like the most in this country, so it seems to me that you are very unpleasant comments that I would preach to you that withdrawn. And actually, there's a health struggle and we're here, but there's an economic and social struggle. And this government in these last few weeks, so it has arranged with employers and trade unions the very basis of the agreement on economic recovery and social protection. The government itself, with all the economic team and led by the vice-president, we have drawn up a plan of economic recovery and social protection that we have presented to the citizenry, in which we have quantified the money that comes close to the European funds, 31,000_millions; we have signed with the most representative entities of the third sector, representing 4,200 entities of the third sector, the agreement for social Catalonia; we have drawn up a committee of health experts that precisely wants to reform the whole health system, together with an interdepartmental committee that is believed and that has to end this September the studies through a report; we have led a group of experts, Catalonia 22, that has to send also what can be, therefore, the lines of the future of our country; You have every right to criticize whether this government does it better or worse, but this government does not stop ruling, does not stop deciding, every day. What do we need? You want me to tell him what's missing in this government? Resources, without any doubt, and I would like to say that some day – some day – you are on the side of the Government in what are legitimate claims of the resources that this country needs to pull forward, that some day Ciutadans are on the side of the Government to claim the European funds, to claim the rule of expenditure, to claim the surpluses in favor of the assemblies, to denounce the fiscal deficit that we suffer. I'm done. The spurious quote of the Valle-Inclán was only because he knew that it was made famous l'any 31 a phrase that said Valle-Inclán, says: « The Spaniards have cast the last Bourbon, not as king but as thief. And I thought, therefore, it was enough adient, in today's session. To Mr. Iceta, the truth is that I was thinking of making her a long replica, but in front of the republic torrent that brought me out of Mrs. Albiach, she almost made it, the replica. I know that you are a very institutional person and a defender of the institutions and of the king and of such, so I imagine you must have been glamorous after a speech that has overflowed us all, about the republicanism of Mrs. Albiach. Now, I don't seem to be worried either, because it makes me feel more like this is some kind of fireworks going on here, right? Some Catalan groups were criticized for making one speech here and another in Madrid, huh? , and today gives me the feeling that this has been a little bit around here. Miri, do you know what happened on May 20, 2008, Mr. Iceta? That President Montilla ruled out a negotiation with the rest of the autonomous presidents, and he bet on a bilateral negotiation with the government. And you know who's going to come out, on behalf of the PSC, to explain it? You. I mean, what Catalonia wants to negotiate finance with the state is not something that comes out of this, no, no, it's President Montilla's, it's yours. You literally asked for this bilateral negotiation with the State on finance. Why does it seem to you that we won't want the same now, if you yourself defended it? And, therefore, I am not greatly satisfied, that I did not go to the meeting of La Rioja, because it was part of the entremat, of this entremat that was already related to the flight of the king. That picture was part of the king's escape report. I don't have a problem, and I've shown it, I've been to all the president meetings, everyone, because I know what we're playing. And I want us all out. Look, right now Catalonia has a situation where we seem to have managed to put a stop to the expansive raven of infection, and we're going downhill. And in change Madrid is on the rise. We're focusing on Aragó, so it's really hard. The Basque Country is spoken of as an on-going second. The situation is complicated, huh? I've given him examples of very different color governments. You know that some of them are yours. So, I want everyone to get dressed. And I'll do everything in my power to make sure we all get together. He won't find me, so he's trying to get four votes for running the pandemic, because I know everyone's leaving their hair, all the governments. And, look, do you know what I'm telling you today? So yes, let me... talk about rights and democracy in Spain... so let me ask you a few questions, today, when the sentence came out to Councilman Puig. It is that I question it, yes, because there are already too many feelings that European justice is putting on the wall of the table that question democracy and Spanish justice, and that they will come. And this can't be over by now? Can't you put up with this shame? How much does it cost to approve and propose an amnesty law? But why does it have to cost them so much? And I address you, Mrs. Albiach, I mean, they voted for you because you did this, because you proposed an amnesty law. But why don't they propose it? Do it. I mean, I don't know, that's exactly what we asked. And other questions faster, Mr. Iceta. Be in 3_per_cent? So much, so much as we're in character. And so, because this is absolutely against what this government has defended since the first moment, which is zero corruption. I, for one, for one. What Madrid is going on in front of us, did you say? Is it how they can avoid it, with this underfunding that we have? How can they avoid it? We're not fighting on equal terms. How can we avoid it, without the Mediterranean corridor, that Madrid does not pass us to the front? I'm telling you the same as Mr. Carrizosa: one day she'll be standing next to the government of Catalonia to claim the funding she's around us? And, finally, you have all the legitimacy to say that we're doing a bad job, but maybe it's not the same perception that the Catalan citizens have, that this is about giving confidence to the Government of Catalonia versus the Spanish Government. And I'd also like to reschedule it. Look, I already know that I'm a traditional little girl, a little old and all, insulting me as a nouncentrist, imagine's. So it's hard for me to know that the republicanism of the tradition of which you come, of the Campalans, of the Serra and Moret, has evaporated everything, and that nothing remains, and that you today are part of the great supporter of the regime. This really, I don't know, because of the tradition that there was of Catalan socialism, so to me, frankly, it makes me a little too high. Mrs. Albiach, I must congratulate you on the juggling exercise you did here today. It is very difficult to go out in this rostrum, to do this exercise of republicanism and to take over the government of Madrid and continue to take the king's escape. It's very difficult. You've been trying to make us think they're saying one thing, trying to do another... no, look, it's that the scandal is capital, it's enormous, it's monumental, it's colossal. It's the head of state; the head of state of Spain has run away. And you have a huge responsibility. If this didn't happen to you when you were in the government, then you could make this speech, but it's that you're in the government of Spain. That's why I said it: I think that if really, and I believe it, you in this speech were sincere, and you expressed the opinion of Podemos, you have a very worthy exit, which is resigning. Or have I said another thing to him, I say: "Secute, therefore, forge, I do not know, a reference about the monarchy in Spain." But it's that you're part of this government, and so, frankly, I don't think that you can make this speech here and continue to rule as if it were in Madrid with the argument of utility. It looks like... And you yourself said, "The governments that had helped Juan Carlos, etc. So I hope your government isn't... we can't say it was a government that tolerated this runaway from the king. And he was talking about Republican Left force. Miri, do you know what I mean by Republican Left? So, advance Andalusia, which today spoke and made an article that said: "It is the time of the Andalusian republic. For me, this is a left and republican force. Therefore, I, if you believe the speech you have made here, encourage you to be coherent. And he was talking about the democratic confrontation, that I just have to confront, etcetera. I don't know, but how can we face a state that targets a corrupt king? How can they confront us with a Spanish justice that they know is impossible for us to find justice, when we have to find Europe? How do you think our relationship with the State has to be, if it's not manifesting these massacres that the Spanish State has? At the CUP, I practically coincide with your entire speech. I also believe that the only possible republic in the State is Catalan. That's why it seems to me that it's important that we all have – and today I think it's clear to the three independent groups –... that our goal is the Catalan Republic and, therefore, I agree very much. With regard to "you are still more Republicans than ever, I look, so I have tried, since the first day I was President of the Generality. You may feel like you don't, but I've been trying to get this one to be my catch. Well, my causes for disobedience are mine. The PP. Mr. Fernández, I think the best of your speech has been your tie, honestly. I wouldn't want you to miss out, the green tie you gave us today. That you take over the corrupt monarchy seems perfectly understandable and normal to me. I mean, you... it's just like, do what the king does, they'll defend him. Moreover, the "living the king, which I have now thought, "I don't know whether it's the first time he's felt or not, has cried here today. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you, Mr. Rodriguez, were the first. All right, well, congratulations. Jo... it seems like this acrylic speech, doesn't it? , before such immoral behavior they place them to you, too, in a difficult situation, because we are talking about an unusual immorality. And so there's a theme here a lot... you can't look at the other band as if nothing. Really, huh? I think you need to look at it. And respect this plural monarchy and that unites us all, etc. So, look, it's that the October 3 speech to many of us placed us outside, directly, because King Philip VI took the violence against the Catalans and we would never forget that. And, therefore, you may feel represented by King Philip. Allow me to tell you that we don't. And you said: "We are a small group, etcetera. So, look, maybe this "live the Acrytic King" makes you a small group. Maybe rethinking some attitudes would make you grow up, because that's what the republican groups in the chamber have explained: this country has an 80- or 90-per-cent consensus that no longer considers the monarchy as its own institution. That's it, that's it. All these questions give this result. That's it. So, well, I think this is the consensus and this is the majority. And to Esquerra and Junts for Catalunya, I'd like to thank you for your support. I think it was very important that today the Catalan Parliament held this debate, certainly, as we have had so many. I think I've been the president that I've been in more debates and I have no problem in participating in all the debates that I don't care when I don't. I'm not the one who puts the orders of the day or when they put the debates. No problem in having all the debates that come up. I am at your disposal 24 hours a day to know what is going on in this country over the pandemic; I would just miss it. And, therefore, any time is good, so, because I can answer them but today, as Albert Batet said, the only democratic institution that is asking what has happened is the Parliament of Catalonia. And this has a value, it has a magnificent value, it has a democracy value, it has an exemplary value, it has a decency value and it has a value – I think, too – of freedom. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.30.0	Taking into account the time spent by the President of the Generality in his reply, I now respond to a counter-replication of three minutes for parliamentary groups, one minute and a half for sub-groups. Therefore, when you say, Mr Carrizosa, in the first term and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.31.0	Thank you, Mr. President. What a plenum you have marked, Mr Torra, what a plenum you have marked. I do not know how the citizens who are concerned about the health crisis and the economic crisis that is coming upon us will feel. They will surely wonder what we have solved in this plenary session, what we have solved from the very serious health situation, what we have solved from the very serious economic situation, in which families find themselves and how we assist those who feel most helpless in the face of the crisis. Surely, the answer is that none of that has been done, that what has been done in this House is again what you know how to do, that it is crisparing, that it is dividing and that it is not managing and not working. You guys have this excuse that you didn't go to the presidents' conference because the king was going, listen, it's the last; it's the last thing you have to put these excuses for something that you have absolutely predetermined, which is to attack where it hurts the most to get independence, according to you. Then they don't get independence, do they? You will get both independence and if Ciutadans promises it, only that you lie and we tell the truth. « There will be no independence and you say to him: « Yes, yes. And the result is the same: no. I sincerely regret this spectacle for small and medium-sized enterprises, for families, for traders, for the tourism sector, for citizens, who do not deserve these politicians who, in the most serious period of uncertainty, only want to cause more instability. And besides, Mr. Torra, you lack two essential legitimacys to ask today to abdicate Philip VI. First, moral legitimacy, because they do it based on corruption. You want me to resign a king emeritus when you are 3_per_cent kings, kings of corruption – it is almost a dynastic dispute. And they lack democratic legitimacy. Look, I'm going to explain it to you easily so that you all understand, because I see that you in your things don't understand these things well. Look, that the Parliament of Catalonia votes for the abdication of the king for alleged corruptions in the crown is as if the Parliament of La Rioja or Congress itself voted for the abolition of the Generalitat for the corruption of its successive presidents. And you end up saying that we all know each other here. This plenary session has no other objective than to attack a symbol of Spain to charge itself to Spain. That's why you charge against our institutions. And the brave thing, the revolutionary thing in Catalonia is to ask today to work to solve the pandemic, to defend our institutions, to defend the king as a symbol and to oppose this disloyal autonomous government. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] formed by room revolutionaries who only think to bind it on a Friday of August, when they hold a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.32.0	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.33.0	... budget – and I finish now – of 33,000_million, which often invest in everything that does not interest citizens: in propaganda, in dividing and in crisparing. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.34.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.35.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly, because the time for the reply gives for the one he gives. But it has made me singularly understand that a spokesman of the majority groups has presented himself as practically, finally, a minority expelled into a raccoon... In concrete terms, remember that of the forty years of recovery of the Generality, the party of Mr. Batet did not govern thirty-three. Thirty-three during which, certainly, there was a good relationship between the Government of Catalonia and this monarchy that today we discovered is the worst that could pass it to Catalonia from yesterday. You are framed to defend – and you have the right, of course, everyone can defend what they have for the best –: "No, it's that Spain is not a democracy. Listen to me, tell me an example of a democracy that accepts the jurisdiction of an international tribunal. Today you are holding a decision by a Belgian court on an extradition procedure. Therefore, the culmination of Spain's justice is precisely resided in the European justice, by its own decision, of Spain. We could set many, many examples. Certainly, there has been a controversy around the granting of the third degree to certain political prisoners, with all reason. Now, during the time granted, you could, among other things, interview public television. Tell me which democracy doesn't happen like this. I'm saying that because we can all put a little perspective on the things we say. And that's what someone tells you who has strictly said that it can improve the quality of our democracy, and so much. You've been acting like President Montilla's authoritative argument, and I want to congratulate him because I think he really was the last great president we've had. Now, when President Montilla was there, we never missed the conference of presidents or the Council for Fiscal and Financial Policy. Therefore, they do not want to counter multilateral and bilateral negotiations. No, no, they don't have to fight back, and each one has its own paper. Now, who is alienated from multilateral relations will probably be more likely to take part in or earn a return from bilateral negotiation. You said: "How can we avoid the economy? Miri, I'll give you an example: I'm not going back to promoting your four-thousand-a-million-entrepreneur social march. Let's get better. On the subject of republicanism, Miri, the year 78 was a great pact, in which there was, indeed, the parliamentary monarchy. A pact that we arrived at very different political forces: you think you can break it, I don't think so; you think you can break the relationship between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, and I don't think so. This is the difference that separates us. Does this prevent us from working together to improve the quality of life of Catalans? I don't think so. And as far as we're concerned, this will never fail.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.36.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.37.0	Thank you, President. President, you said that this morning, and now we're back listening to him trying to discredit us, trying to overthrow the central government. Therefore, you can continue to use any excuse to overthrow the central government; you can continue to use any situation to try to discredit us or wear us out as political force, you can continue to deny the existence of republicans and republicans in Catalonia outside independence, but we are very clear who we are, where we come from and why we are here. We, the people of En Comú Podemos, are Republicans, we are Catalans, we are left-handed, we are the nets and girls of whom they have always worked for a republican alternative, who know and know the fraternity of the common people, who have planted them in front of the Faixist dictatorship, who have broken the skeleton to the barrel, to the squares and to the streets of our country to try to pull it forward. So, quite simply, we come from places, from the streets of our barrels, from accumulating densities, from struggles to protect our planet, from struggles to keep a decent job, and now, yes, for some time now, we've been in institutions, even though there are people who bother them because they think we don't have a right. So we, from the smallest assembling to the central government, don't forget why we're here. And we're here because we can't repeat the 2008 stage, because we're convinced that fraternity among the people is the only way to have a better world, because we have the right to choose our future. And also because we won't rest until everyone, until everyone, has some decent living conditions. And, finally, there have also been some who have proposed that the own Catalan elections – you have also done so, President–..., you have proposed the own Catalan elections as if they were a plebiscite between the Spanish monarchy or the Catalan republic. So I'm saying that we, like In Comú We can, go as a republican force and, therefore, go with a paper that will be that of the plurinational and social republic, because it's what we've always done and it's also what we're here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.38.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.39.0	Nice late again, President. Very briefly, you said that you tried, that you tried to be republican. We, you know, think they didn't get out. And they didn't get out, why? Because today, today, this country is a country absolutely cut off by the poor, 25_percent of the Catalan population is at risk of social exclusion. They didn't get out because today, in the fight to rule or not to rule the judges of the loguer, is winning Mr. Damia Calvet and the Democratic Party of Catalonia's most conservative and straight party that doesn't want to regulate the loguer's prices, despite the fact that you have shown their predisposition. You didn't get away with this republicanism, and before we said so: the republic is not just a territory that has no king; the republic is a place where there is father, rest and work for everyone, where wealth is redistributed. And I could hear Mr. Batet talking, and anyone would say that the commons and Mr. Batet have approved the accounts that govern the public policies of this country. Whatever I may say, there have actually been allies in this legislature and there have been allies who have marked very concrete public policies. It didn't go away, Mr. Torra, despite the fact that you tried, because today, when the monarch goes to Poblet, or half a mile to Poblet, you're the one who's trying to send the Squads to suppress the independence movement, which is this force that has the ability to fall the 78th rule and the ability to fall the monarchy. He didn't leave because, today, there are still six movements of squadrons who have committed racist attacks that are still unsuspected of being and working. They didn't get away with political republicans. Therefore, to be republic, it is not only to be said, but to be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.40.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of the deputy Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.41.0	Thank you very much, President. In a very short way, look, Mr. Torra, even when they pretend to be moderate and relatively cordial they end up with the essence that leads to the inside. There is a certain tendency to refer to minors with a minority, with a minority. I accept that here in this room I am a minority, but if you think I'll stop thinking what I think because we're not in fashion right now, so it's obvious you don't know me. They have to spend many years, an eternity because that's what happens. But it's just that she said something harder than referring to my party. Posem by chance, I will accept – I will not pose myself to argue, because according to what the question is, if it is done in one way, if it is done in another – that now only 30_percent of Catalans feel emotionally proper to the monarchy. I won't discuss the jifra. And what's going on? You spend the day asking for a plural Spanish and you are not able to accept a plural Catalonia? What do we have to give up our ideas because we have to add to your majority movement and, therefore, totalitarian because you do not accept the discrepancy? Neither that we follow 30, nor that we were 1_per_cent, would we stop thinking and defending our ideas. I don't know if you're clear about this. Fortunately, therefore, I can assure you that your vision of politics will have much less recourse than the parliamentary monarchy in Spain. You'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.42.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.43.0	All right, so, three quick references in three minutes. From Ciutadans, summarizing, of this topic they do not want to talk about. The Plenary goes from monarchy, from a king who runs away with the dough and who bargains with the Government, but when you plant them to Mr. Carrizosa, he says: "Yea, but it is the process.... So, miri, who diverts the attention taking advantage of the Covid is not precisely this Government, it is Felipe renouncing the legacy of the iniciator of the confinement or Juan Carlos fleeing the first week of August. And who uses the Covid to cover up the runaway of the corrupt king, failing to respect the Catalan societies, are you, who are the establishment, who are the 1978 rule, who are the party of the IBEX and who did not expect anything other than a closed defense of the monarchy. And I don't think I can forget that we've already done two fulls in this Parliament about the Covid. To the PSC: We wanted to know if they had anything left of Republicans or not; we can also say that there was a surprise, but the current rule already worked them well, a monarchic rule already worked them well, a state colluded where the king makes a press release explaining that his father goes away with the silences. So, miri, it's reprobable: 2,000_million stolen personally, says, not like the monarch, 2,000_million stolen personally. I don't think it's gonna work out, we'd say, and it makes more crying than not laughing. They have arranged for the escape of the corrupt, the thief, and with this they still make greater the hole that has opened between the people and the system of government. And, look, we're mostly Republicans here and we're sure we're some more than we were before. And the dichotomy in Catalonia is very clear. Spanish monarchy versus the Catalan republic, because there are no alternatives. And with Podemos, the speech well: secrecy, opacity, elites, IBEX, corruption, indignity, shame. Collonut. But, gee, it's that they're in charge of it, it's that they rule together today, it's that you're the State that let him escape. And being Republicans isn't that. That's not it. I say again: against this monarchy, amnesty and the Catalan republic, net, socially just, of republican values. And to all those undecided, all those who today have disenchanted themselves again with this conservative Iceta, as much status as, both IBEX 35, with all those who today have disenchanted themselves from seeing that there is nothing that we can promise, changes that today have made a false speech to us, that he sees gestures and that they face neither republic nor amnesty nor self-determination, that We can be responsible for the king's escape, to all of these, those who today have died for the first time, you will be welcome to the project republic, to the project that wants to build a different state, a Catalan republic independent and for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.44.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Lord Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.45.0	Are you all right? Yeah? Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra, deputies, deputies. Lords of Ciutadans, Lord Carrizosa says: "The Parliament of Catalonia is not competent to speak of the monarchy. But now, in Andalusia, the Autonomous Government of Andalusia is competent to spend millions and millions of euros to make a campaign to destroy linguistic immersion in Catalonia. In this they do have competence and in this they do show their level of incompetence or their willingness to always go against the català. (Founding voice) The People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.46.0	Quiet, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.47.0	Says: "No, it is that if there is a 14_per_cent.... No, no, no, it is that the CEO of the month of March, before this scandal the capital of the escape of the Spanish head of state for corruption, said that in Catalonia there was only a 14_per_cent of Catalans who wanted monarchy. And I am convinced that today is still inferior. I said because it speaks of 30_per_cent and no, no: the CEO's question speaks of a 14_per_cent. Mr Iceta, it is clear that there is no intention of reform, on the part of the State, that the only solution is the Catalan Republic. We don't get self-criticism about things that haven't been done right, and we've shown it here in your parliamentary office. And that is why we would vote that yes, as President Torra announced, to the fact that the Government of Catalonia is a person in cases of corruption. But you are brave, investigating the corruption of the monarchy, investigating the corruption of the state that you are seeing and we see that the prosecution is not doing this and that its government and its president are not bravely facing this issue. The same courage that the Government of the Generality claims to Catalonia and President Torra exercise, you too have with your attitude. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the commons, you speak of a plurinational and social republic. Listen, they're doing something. That they are ministers, that they have mayors, that they have power, that the government relies on you. What is not valid is to say: "You can then say that you do not want to. This doesn't work, because when you're in the chair and when you have power and when you're in the government, it's not to be more conservative than Ciutadans or the Socialist Party, but to be progressive. And you have the ability, the only one who doesn't want to lose the chair, that's why you've been so many years to get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.48.0	Thank you. Let's finish the debate here. I recall that the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions is at six o'clock and that the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be thirty minutes later. The improbable deadline for making compromise proposals will be set and the submission and voting of the motions for resolutions will be at eight. Therefore, we suspend the session until the eight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.49.0	Well, Members, Members, let us resume the sitting with the debate on the motions for resolutions tabled. [[Debate on the political situation created by the crisis of the Spanish monarchy (continuation)]] [[255-00016/12]] And let us begin, first of all, with the motions for resolutions tabled for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar. To defend them, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.50.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable President, Vice-President, Councillors, Members and Members, an explanation of the policy, of the two motions that we have tabled. After listening to the arguments of the President of the Generality, to listen also to the arguments of the different parliamentary groups, especially of those who support him in his Government, each time we are more convinced that this debate has been a debate that has been a diversionary maneuver, of a Government that up to the end, of which it seems that it is the end of the legislature, exhausted and – making use of the words of the very honorable President – fractured, between the two partners that conform the Government. We believe that it is a government that is not in these moments at the height of the country's problems if we stick to what the citizens explain in the various studies that the CEO and CIS do about the concerns they have, basically focused on the health problems we have, the problems to education and above all very concerned about the economic situation. We know the data for this second quarter: the gross domestic product in Catalonia has fallen three points above the average of the rest of the state. For the first time, the Catalan GDP is either below or behind the Madrid GDP. Now we believe – and this is one of the proposals for a resolution that we have tabled – that we should align, from cooperation, the policies of the Government of the Government of Catalonia and of the Government of Spain and of the European institutions, for positive policies to guide these European foundations that will arrive to reindustrialize the country from innovation, from digitisation. And President Tora is winging himself, from our point of view, from this debate. We must also address, from the political debate, from the political ones, in the face of the growing inequalities, which are also obviously produced in Catalonia; as we are dealing with debates, such as that which Miquel Iceta raised this morning, of the energy and economic transition. In short, how we program the premise and how we also decide how we invest or redistribute resources that have already come or come from the Government of Spain. We're sending the government to come to the very Ple with dues, if this young man is approved. I'm going back to insist, it's time to weave accomplices. And you have pushed a debate to cover up these inefficiencies, this government failure, from our point of view. But we also believe – and this is the explanation of the second motion we have put forward – that the commitment against corruption must guide the conduct of institutions to the head of public administration. And what is the role that any person has had or who has been or is their status, all of us are the same before the law, which is what corresponds to a state of right and social like ours. And, therefore, we also propose them in this motion for a resolution that, considering the alleged fiscal or criminal irregularities of the emeritus king, as it cannot be in any other way – I repeat, in a state of law like ours – these conducts must be investigated for the prosecution and the Tax Agency and assign and sanction the responsibilities that remain upon the case. But speaking of corruption, we cannot allow this debate to take place. We also propose them..., we consider the government late, but we also propose that the government of the Generalitat is personified as a particular accusation in cases that affect..., cases suspected of corruption in Catalonia. I am referring in a very concrete way to those that affect the Pujol Ferrusola family and what we know as the case of 3_per_cent. In order to ensure, in the event that you do, that the judgment is finally defined as such, that public resources are badly disposed of, that it is possible to bail out in favour of the Government of Catalonia these resources, not as happened in the Palau case, that with the Government of the Government in its moment decided to withdraw, it turns out that the compensation fixed in its case by the Supreme Court will end up going to the arks of the tributary of the State. Finally, today the President of the Generalitat said to us: "The proper elections that we have were made by monarchy or by the Catalan Republic. No, Mr. President, the proper elections, when you summoned them, went out of democracy. Catalans and Catalans will elect a parliament, some deputies and some deputies who at the same time will elect a president of the Catalan Government and a government that we hope will be a more effective and effective government than we have had in the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.52.0	Thank you very much, President. Good night to everyone. In the midst of a social, economic and health crisis, at one of the hardest times for the population, most uncertain, most unequal and most unjust, the emerit king fled the country. Words are missing to describe the underprivileged citizenship, social insensitivity and ignorance of the same country as the King Emeritus and the Royal House. How they mocked and mocked the people. He's indignant and undemocratic. It is a new and profound question of the democratic salvation of the Spanish State. A former head of state, an emeritus king, who marches on you do not know how, you don't know how, you don't know with five dollars, without having to answer, without explaining, assuming, that if Lisbon, that if Costa Rica, that if Abu Dhabi, with the Fanjul, with the regalesa. Which vodka, but no, it's not a vodka, it's a failed monarchy. And yes, we are talking about the monarchy. It is the monarchy – the institution – which is failing. Why? So because in this case, the person is the institution and the institution is the person. We are talking about an institution that inherits, an archaic institution based on privileges and pre-blessings, a person and his family. And if there is one thing that is out of the basic principles of equality, freedom and fraternity is meaning doubt a outdated, opaque and corrupt monarchy; out of any democratic sense to defend the king's inviolability for whatever reason, to defend the inviolability to commit a crime, for corruption. No, it has to be fair and it has to be responsible for it. Inviolability has become a privilege that allows impunity and gives white card to act outside the law. This Parliament has all the right and all the Members and Members that we are in this Parliament have all the right to talk about the political crisis caused by the monarchy crisis, because it is a moral crisis, it affects us and it affects the citizenry of Catalonia, and because the same Constitution so much as defends some recognizes, in Articles 87 and 166, that this Parliament has initiative for constitutional reform. Therefore, I can discuss everything that affects the constitutional regime. This Ple is necessary and relevant, it is important. Frankly, we must move them that we do not understand the insistence of the PSC to stick behind a supposed competition conflict in order to escape from the study of the issue that is now on us. His motion for a resolution on anything but the specific theme of this House is basically this, a smokescreen, a non-wanting to talk about what we're talking about. But it's that, besides, in which democratic system you can't talk, you can't debate, you can't criticize and you can't reject the performance of a head of state. It's that it's a basic democratic principle, just like it's a disgrace and a democratic tempt that still holds the crime of injury to the crown, punished with prison sentences. Pursuing and condemning people to exercise the right to freedom of expression is a democratic time and in the proposals that we present to them we have deleted this issue from the Criminal Code. We believe that it is time that the taboo of the untouchable monarchy, of the monarchy as the guarantor of this fragile democracy that began and that for so long they have made us believe that without the monarchy there was no democracy and there was no democracy. So no. Forty years have passed, forty years have passed, and even though much remains to be done in repair, in historical memory, in democratic consolidation, we do not need a monarchy to have democratic stability in this country. What we need is equality, is social justice, is that there is a democracy that defends freedom, the rights, a life worthy, plurality and social justice for everyone, that supposes the filth of privileges and pre-bends of the elites, of the friendships of Cayetana and Santiago. We will not have a democratic future without social justice. And this is the republic, the fief of these privileges, the defense of justice and equality, the guarantee of a life worthy for everyone, the defense of Article 14 of the Constitution, which establishes the equality of all citizens before the law, we believe in, or is it just dumb paper? In the face of the emerit king's escape, we, with our proposals for a resolution, are putting forward concrete measures to address the democratic legitimacy crisis that we are experiencing. Our path is not immobility, it is not to see that there has been no king, that we can follow as if king, because it is a matter of a person, not of an institution. We believe that it is not possible to minimize what has happened and, in this sense, we also want to urge the PSC that, if they say that they are Republicans, that they come out of the closet and that they say it clearly and that they understand that the one who has gone through the current state model is leaking. Nor do we obviously share the closed defense of the monarchy by the courtiers of the right, Ciutadans, who were the defenders of democratic regeneration; they are only concerned about the corruption of Convergence, not that of the royal family apparently. We can say the same as the People's Party, which is already so used to corruption that what they're seeing sees on the part of the royal family doesn't seem to worry about it the same way. But neither is the electoral opportunism of President Torra, Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. Let's be clear, President. This Ple is not a republic or a monarchy. This Ple went from a new stage of confrontation, with the Government of the State and with us, now with In Comú Pode. He has decided that, instead of building alliances, you will again tend towards confrontation and denial of the possibilities of change and transformation. You're still in the "worst, better, and from here you don't want to get out, because that's where you feel comfortable. Perhaps he would still feel more comfortable with a government of the People's Party, with VOX and Ciutadans. Perhaps that would be more convenient for him to keep up with his story of the confrontation, but unfortunately we are not in this episode. What would be his alternative? You say you're not interested in the Spanish Republic. She doesn't care that Espanya is better. So, President Torra, the President Companies said that Spain does not advance without Catalonia and Catalonia does not advance without Spain. But maybe you're not very good at quoting President Companies, exactly. For you and for Junts for Catalonia, the outrage at corruption is also a matter of borders, of the borders of Catalonia there. When we are talking about corruption and the condemnation of Democratic Convergence, they see that it is not with you and they have nothing to do with you. So here there are hereus of the political culture of the Pujol family. In fact, we see photos of many of the deputies who are here taking pictures, with the Pujol family. This is the heritage we also have here, it's the heritage of Juntes for Catalonia as well. Therefore, we can talk about all the corruption that is prevalent in the monarchy. Actually, there's a lot to talk about, but it's also about looking at the ball on the outside which is, in this case, a pretty big ball and not seeing the big one in its own. We talk about corruption when we speak about corruption, but we talk about all corruption. We are still hoping that there will be a General Councillor who resigns on the grounds of corruption or incoherence between government policy, which, as we know, is not that there is much agreement on things as a fan. Now, we ask ourselves to resign; tell us that we should resign because, if not, we are responsible for what has happened and, if we do not resign, we cannot say anything; we have remained silent, because they are responsible for what has happened. So no, I'll say no. We are in the government, yes, but we are not in charge of what has happened. We are not co-responsible, men or women, for the escape of the Emeritus king. No, no, We don't know. And we're going to the government to make transformation policies and for a lot of you repeating it one time and another, because it's easier for them to report, that's not going to be that way. Neither do we resign, nor do we resign, because you know who would like the ministers of Commune to resign? Yes, to the People's Party, to Ciutadans, to Vox, to IBEX 35 and now to the President of the Government of Catalonia. That we follow the government of the state doesn't get the right to say that this is a democratic disgrace and that it needs to clean up responsibilities and that it needs to pursue and that it needs to be a republic. And what bothers you is to find yourself a vice president of the Spanish government who says: « visca la República. You don't like this to happen, because the size of the confrontation report, the size of the "worst, better" report. And that's what makes you angry. And once again, instead of looking for these alliances, what you are looking for is confrontation. So no. We will not tire of saying what we do, doing what we do and being where we are, because we have come to do this, because we are here to make social justice and the republic possible, from Barcelona, from Catalonia, from the Congress and from the Government of the State. And that's not enough to keep working for a fairer republic, for Republican values. While we are making transformation policies demanding the republic and denouncing the corrupt monarchy, it is perfectly compatible and worthy of being in the state government and defending republican values. And that is why the motions for resolutions that we have put forward in this line, short-term proposals, which some more have seen than in other motions for resolutions – barriers with other issues that make it very difficult to give support to it – coincide, for example, with the laws governing the functioning of the head of the State, limiting the inviolability of their actions, ending opacy, ensuring full transparency in accounts and assets, taking down the category of King Emeritus, eliminating the crime of injury, as we have said. But we tell them from now on: we will continue to work to defend and build alliances that advance towards a new democratic horizon and we defend and what we propose is that this horizon must be the plurinational republic. That's what we believe in. This does not go from the Catalan Republic to the Spanish monarchy. No, no, This is for us, for many people in Catalonia and the rest of the State, from a plurinational republic to the Spanish State. And that's why we defend, a republic in honor of all those people who put their body, who are in the wedges, in the walls, in exile. For all these people who are still screaming from balconies, streets and places. And for all this and being from the Government of the State, from the Common We can, we call it tall and strong: visca la republica!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.53.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.54.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies. We felt as justified as the reason for the celebration of this monographic plethora on the monarchy at the time of the inquiry, at the time of the CEO and given data from the March CEO. So the data for the month of July of the CEO tells us that what concerns Catalans is salvation, it's the economy, it's the economy, it's social policies, it's education and the monarchy doesn't appear. The monarchy doesn't appear. We were of the opinion that a plethora of these characteristics had felt if it were to talk about the problems that afflict the citizens more intensely and obviously the health crisis and the social crisis and the economic crisis were a reason more than enough to make a plethora of these characteristics. Not the monarchy, no. We didn't see him, celebrating a plethora of these characteristics. But look, as long as we're here, we've come to this point, so we believe that, as a minimum, this House will have two virtues, two. Look, the first is that the president tells us that he spends the twenty-i-four hours of the day trying to fix the coronavirus problem and the rebound problem. So look, at least, seeing the results we've seen of your exclusive dedication to this problem, at least during these hours you won't have dedicated yourself to it, to see if we're lucky enough that buds and buds get better a little bit. And the second question is that this debate I think puts them to you in front of a lookout. There are many qualifications and disqualifications that have dedicated to the monarchy, but that have an extraordinary appearance with things that have happened and are happening in Catalonia. The same president accused the opposition parties of accomplices of corruption and the monarchy of corruption. However, it is not here in Parliament that we doubt whether the government should present itself as a particular accusation in the case of 3_per_cent. This isn't where we doubt it. Here we have already voted and we have said: "Yes, the government must be in character. We doubt it's in the government. It is you who in doubt, yes, because they do not make this decision, just as they did in the case, in its moment, in the case of the Palau de la Música, who decided not to characterise themselves. So now they have the opportunity to do so and we will ask again in the motions for resolutions. They refer to the king's march without transparency and little democracy. Finally, someone said: "They're going to the king's plane, aren't they? We already understand that its parameters of transparency and democracy must pass through the dark of the suitcases and leaving the companies waiting for them to wait in a table that arrives at a meeting of President Puigdemont. They have treated the monarchy of "criminal organization". Even someone called it "mafia." And, man, so look, "criminal organization is the Palau case, sentenced, not with journalistic information, no, sentenced. "Criminal organization is the interlocutor of the court of the National Audience that thus heads the Pujol family, president of the Generality and all its children. President of the Generality for twenty-three years and all his children. The king emeritus confon – you have said it, eh? – the king emeritus confounds inviolable with impunity. Man, what's that sound like? If you have repeatedly done so a few years ago, exactly that, confuse inviolability with impunity. You have extensive experience in both concepts. What lessons have they come to give, when the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia – it is said as it is said, PDeCAT, Junts for the Yes or part of Junts for the Yes, Junts for Cat, now Junts – have a president accused of criminal organization, President Pujol ; they have another condemnation, President Mas ; another escape and escape from justice. And it's not a qualification, it's literal. And you, Mr. Torra, also sentenced. It's just that there's not one that's been saved, not one, not one. All of it. And they didn't have any more, because if they didn't, something else would have to have. With a difference, you've all come to explain here today... you've come to talk to us about journalistic information and we're talking about feelings and judicial investigations. That is why we have presented the two motions for resolutions to which we were entitled, with two very clear objectives. The first is to highlight the role that Parliament's monarchy has played and has played in the framework of the 78th Constitution, concordia and coexistence, and has made progress and modernised the entire Spanish society, and so has Catalan society. And second of all – and I finish – we lose our doubts about the corruption that is closest to us and about which we are competent, which is its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Caula has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.56.0	Thank you, President. We don't have more evidence, more evidence, the list is long. That the Royal House considers that the best option, the best, is to run through the back door and at night, makes all the appearance of doing good the chorus « thinks badly that you will start. We can do all the stuff you want when you skip new news. Fem them, I'd just miss them. They can do so many PRs with us. I'm sorry, well, this sometimes has some kind of filter. But for those of us who have always defended and fought for a form of republican government, those who have even forbidden us to stand for election, the first of their esteemed and peaceful transition, with our name, because the error of republic, for which they have always denounced corruption and the lack of democratic character of a monarchical system, for us these debates are sometimes too obvious. We participate, if they leave us and do not send us their men of grey or green to denounce us or to engage us, depending on how it went; we participate, as I said, but really that everything would have to do us, to do them, to fall the face of shame. Don't they know that the monarchy is not just an anachronistic, but deeply anti-democratic system, despite the fact that all the adjectives are behind them? And we'll re-explain it as many times as anyone else, that being head of the State through blood is no longer a waste. And who can't criminally prosecute or prosecute a person just to be a member of a particular family is completely incompatible with justice and democracy. And when you add all this to the way you amuse yourself to killing elephants, like untimely corrupt hobby, but systemic and systematic millions and millions of euros from the city you would or would have to represent, and more often than not, there are many moral discourses explaining to everyone where the outburst of honor is, but then it seems that it is more difficult to exercise it... And we are also very clear and make it very clear that always, always precedes the speech of the Spanish unit above all else. When this is all: sum up, this is not democracy. Look, they can already serve all the springs of the State. They can already forbid us to speak, criticize, abjure or question the monarchy, the Bourbon and whatever it is. But nothing will prevent them from seeing each day as this 78th rule that they defend so much, it is mesmerized between the sayings. As an example, the CT sees incitement to hatred and violence in the fact of cremating pictures of the king and which does not stand in the right of freedom of expression. European Court of Human Rights: judgment that the State has violated the right to freedom of expression. The European courts state that the judgement of the Spanish judiciary was pursuing an objective against the freedom of political expression, at a time when the figure of the king was being criticized as representing the Spanish nation and not as the person. A sum and continues to coerce of the great Spanish injustice. That is why, once again, our parliamentary group calls for the law to be repealed and urges the Spanish Government to repeal the crime of injury to the crown. Just as we also ask the Interior Council to avoid any active collaboration with the repression of protesters and protests with the excuse of a supposed protection of the royal family, so as to review the performance we saw just now at the entrances of Poblet's monastery. We understand that implosion of this political system hurts them, but they look at their eyes, look at how society is changing and listen to their demands. And without going further, as we face, in this hemisphere, dealing with childhood and putting emphasis on the right of the infant to be a child and then observing how many of these groups understand how normal it is that a girl of thirteen years old already has an institutional and boti agenda with speeches in the name of the kingdom. The society is moving forward and growing more and more feudal models. We have a corrupt and rotten political rule, and it's normal that it's that way. You are the heirs, in the end, of a dictatorship. May I remind you once more that he named King Joan Carles I an heir? May I remind you in what conditions did that poorly-named democratic transition produce? You don't want to recognize him. If they deny it, they deny it, but today it's such a palm tree evidence that it hurts them to defend it. Let us speak clearly: the consensus of 78 was produced under military threat and it was not such, the consensus. But today there is a new generation or generations that have already lost sight of and the foundational pillars of this regime are collapsing. Questioning this rule in all its aspects should be a top priority of all democracy. It's clear. Everyone knows, the cry is already unanimous, it resonates with the country and, despite the desperate political and media attempts to minimize it, the sound that produces the collapse of the Spanish monarchy is already unstoppable and growing all over the world. Let's be clear, the State is going naked. In fact, the State cleared itself with the direct and intense help of the same monarchy. In Catalonia we have seen it, we have understood it and we have experienced it many years ago. Public opinion data confirm once and for all the vast majority of the need for the Catalan citizenry to be extended to the monarchical institution and to the people who encapsulate it. The Spanish State is denying itself the knowledge of this date; it prefers not to ask, not to know, not to know the reality. How many times have we felt these days that the monarchy is the central pillar of the constitutional framework. Of course, as they say, the more they call it, and the more they use this argument to silence critical views, the more obvious is the fever of this supposed building. The reaction is natural. If the central pillar is so rotten and self-destructed, the entire building is at risk of immediate demolition. And it also begins to become clear that there is still a segment, perhaps not very numerous, but very powerful, which defends with nails and teeth its status quo. The monarchy tried, in the first period of the Transition, to be identified by two concepts that respond to massive social demand: freedom and democracy. Forty years later, the monarchy was finally linked to two concepts in the antipodes of these: repression and corruption. I can only hear the king's speech on October 3rd to know how a general case against Catalonia can be justified. Three years later, we find ourselves with the escape of the emeritus king, who confirms the most intimate connection between the monarchical institution and the widespread corruption of his personal and affectional environment. Now we have a case before Swiss justice, and we'll see what happens, so don't wish anything good. Oh, when it comes out of the emperor of Spain's justice: it's all trembling and it's all grin. That corruption and repression follow the words that best define today the State is the same time that confirms the direction and purpose of our project of freedom and independence. And we're going because today we're proclaiming the urgency of breaking up with a state that doesn't embarrass itself but protects monarchic corruption. With sadness, we look back, we look back at Madrid and we think: "There is still a government presided over by Rajoy. But it's not like that. Under the title "the most progressive government of history you find the government Sánchez-Iglesias, de facto accomplice with the escape of the emeritus. Those who today have been more demanding here with the Catalan government are those who have their own hands in governing and acting. And where are they? That's where we were a while ago – re-change. So, are we sorry for the real power? We have a message addressed to the State: we ask that everyone be equal before the law. In summary, today, two messages. The escape of Joan Carles confirms, illustrates and expands the indestriable relationship between the Spanish State and the corrupt monarchy and parties of the 78th establishment, and, at the same time, we work with greater confidence than ever to advance in the path of freedom and independence. You socialists, Ciutadans, PP – help us, fill us with reason and reason to build the country worthy and just that we pursue; you are the best contrast denied, the full expression of that which still democratic city rejects. All these ways and our ways we go there: accompany us, let's do it together, let's give it all the meaning and real content of the concept of republic. More so than I really believe, and more so than I do. A new way of hearing society, but defuguent, lords of commons, only from the bel·ligrància to the Catalan Faristol, in contrast to the servility that they have so far demonstrated as part of the Spanish Government. We won't talk about armchairs; we don't want to be in front of institutions like a armchair, just like the possibility of being, of doing it in a different way, with a public service vocation. We're here, and we've seen how high you look lately they tell us [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] From the Spanish State: "We are this, we are corruption, we are abusing power, we are power, we are money. The king is central to our state and our business, and finally, the king depends on our silence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.57.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.58.0	I'm done, President. That's all they're telling us. We, quite simply, have enough. We say to them: « Thank you, take note, and goodbye. Because Catalonia is breath republic; Catalonia is vol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.59.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.60.0	...and she's a Republican.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.61.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.62.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.63.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Martín has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.64.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, indeed, and good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President of the Generalitat, Mr Torra, I sincerely believe, as a citizen of Catalonia and as a Member of this House, as a representative of the citizens of Catalonia, that I can say to you without offense that this plenary is a real shame, an immorality, a real plot of immorality to cover up your calamitous management of the pandemic. That's exactly what you guys did here today. Instead of coming to talk about the dramatic situation that the citizens of Catalonia are experiencing; instead of coming to talk about the amount of people infected by the Covid; instead of coming to talk about the situation of health care workers, doctors, nurses; instead of coming to talk about the stark fall of our community's gross domestic product, above the national average, you come here today to talk about a Byzantine debate, a sterile debate, an unproductive debate, an absolutely useless debate, which does not lead anywhere. We are not at the moment to do shows, shows in a serious parliament, in a parliament that has immense competences, very important competences in the field of health, in the field of education, in the field of social services, all of which are extremely affected precisely by the difficult situation that the Catalans are experiencing. Really, Mr Torra, does it not embarrass you, with the situation we live in Catalonia, to set up such an absolutely unproductive, absolutely useless plenary for your parish alone – and I do not think that for all of it, but only for those who are more radicalised, for those who feel that the institutions can be emptied of content – and to hold a debate that has, at all, no legal protection in the competences of this Parliament? Because he doesn't have it. In fact, may you come, the 3_per_cent, to give moral and integrity lessons seems to me at least curious, not to say delusional. By the way, in this plenary session a comparison has always been made between the figure of Mr Pujol, the former President of the Generalitat, and the Emeritus King; comparisons have been made with both Mr Pujol and Mr Puigdemont. I go first to those you do with Mr. Pujol. I want to remind you – I say this so that we are aware of what we do in parliaments, in this, autonomous, in the General Courts or in any other chamber of representation – that Mr Pujol and his whole family, as Mr Rodríguez, of the People's Party, are all accused by criminal organization, and that I know, in this Parliament there has never been a specific full monograph to talk about the corruption of the Pujol family. You have not rushed, Mr. Torra, to mount a full in forty_y_eight_hours to speak of corruption, yes, judged and, at least..., not judged yet but imputed, is the whole family imputed for corruption. One of the differences between Mr. Pujol and the Emeritus king is that the Emeritus king is not investigated by justice either Spanish or Swiss – do not surprise me, Mr. Torra, because it is so. I think we should tell the citizens the truth. The king emeritus..., a series of worrying information has appeared in the international press, and also in the Spanish press, which I am absolutely convinced that the Spanish justice, when the case arises, will study. Right now, the Emeritus King is not subject to any judicial requirement, and therefore, setting up a full in this circumstance, at this pre-trial stage of journalistic investigations and the prosecutorial ministry about the Emeritus King seems to me to be an absolutely worthy frivolity of better cause. Mr. Pujol, as I tell you... he and his whole family are immersed in a lawsuit and charged by criminal organization, and therefore when you speak of the flight... By the way, I am very pleased that the Lords of Podemos, of En Comú Podemos, and especially the Vice-President of the Government, refer to the Emeritus as a « flight from justice. Mr Carrizosa, our chairman of the group, told them earlier that he was fleeing who has a court order, who weighs on him a judicial case and is going to get away from the action of the justice system. The Emeritus King, your defense has said at all times..., and I, the truth, do not believe that any of you dare to think that the Emeritus King, if the time has come, if justice is required, I do not believe that anyone believes that he can do the same as Mr Puigdemont, who has been renouncing his obligation to justice and removing himself from his obligations to Spanish justice. I think the situation is radically different. It therefore draws my attention to the fact that the Group of Podemos speaks in those terms of the Emeritus King when, for example, Mr Paul Iglesias of Mr Puigdemont speaks as..., calls him "president and says he is a valid interlocutor, of course. And, in fact, in his memoirs, which I have not had the patience to read, but in any case I have seen some excerpt that publishes the press and quotes literally, where Mr. Iglesias tells Mr. Puigdemont that within fifteen years Spanish society, which will already be more traveled and more open-minded, will accept a referendum of secession in Catalonia. This is the image of the Spanish Vice-President of the Government of Spain. It is calling them little less than people with little intellectual evolution, and that the day will come when they are so democratic, so modern, so open-minded that they will accept that democracy is what you say. What Mr. Torra said before, who says that Avancee Andalucia, the brand of Podemos in Andalucia, is a truly democratic left because it is in favour of a referendum of secession for Andalucia. Hey, is that the democratic thing for you? Is that what solidarity is for you? Is that for you the left that must ensure equality, solidarity? Where is the solidarity between the workers of the whole of Spain? That proposal for the advance of Andalusia is the most anti-solidary, reactionary and less respectful thing with the equality between citizens that I have seen in years – after, of course, all that I have seen you have done these years here in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] And, Mr. Torra, anyway, I have been interested in some things about your intervention, because you usually sneeze your interventions from some historical appeals. And you say that Catalans have no king, and you are sheltered in history to say that. Well, I think anyone who's read a couple of books knows perfectly well that throughout history Catalans have had republican sails, like the rest of the Spaniards, and monarchic sails. But I want to remind you, so that you also know the kind of monarchism that has also occurred in Catalonia, the War of the Malcontents – the War of the Aggrieved, which in the rest of Spain is practically unknown – a war of the year 1827, which occurred mainly in Catalonia and to a lesser extent in what is today the Valencian Community, in Aragon and in the Basque Country, that is, the territories that subsequently gave rise to Carlist wars. The War of the Malcontents, the War of the Aggrieved, was a war that started from very reactionary sectors of the monarchy that considered that Fernando VII was making too many concessions to the liberals and wanted – let's say, they were the foreground of what was later Carlism – a much more reactionary monarchy, much more ultramontane, much more conservative. Well, those, the discontents, which are the anteala of Carlism, is a movement clearly rooted in Catalonia and not in other parts of Spain. We have to explain the history of Catalonia well. You can't talk about the Inquisition, as Mr. Batet used to say, and it seems to be something outside of Catalonia. The discontents, the aggrieved, were precisely asking King Fernando VII to reimplement the Inquisition, which had been abolished in Spain. That was the nature of the Catalan monarchical ultra-reactionaries. Yes, you have to know the history of our community, Mr. Torra, I think it's important. Just like when you speak of Primo de Rivera's dictatorship as if it were an absolutely foreign thing to Catalonia, when if you read a historian, I think that of recognized international prestige, like Shlomo Ben-Ami, explains to you that the hysterical climate that generated the Catalan bourgeoisie was what led Primo de Rivera to carry out a coup d'état. In the same way that there were Catalans who supported the Franco dictatorship and promoted the Franco dictatorship. The reality of Catalonia is very plural and very diverse, and you pose the reality of Catalonia as a constant struggle between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, which you say « Catalonia against Spain. That's not the case. It is an invention that is only part of your imagination, and that is clear with this Plenary. In this plenary we tell you, we remind you that when you reprimand the monarchy as something anachronistic, listen, "anachronistic tell it to the Swedish, the Danish, the British, the Canadians, the New Zealanders, the Australians, tell it to the vast majority of countries that top the top rankings of democratic quality and good governance, tell them that monarchies are anachronistic. By the way, in those rankings – I remind you for the umpteenth time – Spain always remains in a magnificent position. I say this because when we talk..., you want to make a Byzantine debate, you want to make a debate about things that are not useful, that are not productive, that are not really important for the whole citizenry. We resisted that. We wanted you, Mr. Torra, to appear here to account for your disastrous pandemic management – you did not want to. They force us to talk about this; let's talk about it. I believe that it is truly a hairpin for the citizens of Catalonia; it seems immoral to us to talk about this. And I honestly believe that there are other things that are much more important. That is why we ask you, among other things, to personify yourselves as government in the cause of 3_per_cent and of the Pujol family. I wanted to make one last comment, because the number of lies and nonsense that have been said in this plenary by the separatist parties and Podemos are crying out to heaven. Mr Batet, the rapper you say is in jail or what you call "exile, who is fleeing justice by singing," sang such things as "your Spanish flag is more beautiful in flames, just like a fucking Civil Guard Patrol when it bursts, or "who blows up a PP bus with loaded nitroglycerin, who are afraid like a civilian guard in Euskadi." If that's singing to you, I don't know what concept you have of what it is to sing, but to me, frankly, that seems to me to exalt terrorism, it seems to me a hate crime, and, in any case, it seems to me that this should be pursued by justice, of course. So stop fooling people: Mr Valtònyc is not what you say‘exiled, but escaped from justice, and he is for very serious crimes that condemn our Criminal Code. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I would be grateful if you would put this Parliament, this House, and stop using it as a resonant chamber, as a resonant box of your delusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.65.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.66.0	...secessionists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.67.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.68.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.69.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya has the words of Mr Josep Costa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.70.0	Thank you, President. President, I want to begin by thanking you for proposing this Plea, for asking that this Plea be celebrated because I think it is an important debate that we should have. We are here discussing the corruption of the Spanish monarchy, of the Bourbon monarchy, and the news should be that we are the only parliament that is making it, of the Spanish State; the news should surely be that there are no more people in the streets asking for responsibilities and asking that this outdated and coerced rule is changed that is the president of the Bourbon monarchy. Now it was up to us to be on parliamentary holidays, but the monarchy thought that taking advantage of our holidays we could sell their escape, this huge corruption scandal, and that we wouldn't do anything because we'd rather be on vacation. Therefore, it is necessary to do this Ple, we want to do it, despite the difficulties, despite the threats, despite the attempts of censorship. Today we started the day with a group trying to prevent you from continuing or celebrating this plenary, and now we have to start an hour late because we are discussing whether or not we can proceed, whether or not we can discuss the motions for resolutions we have put forward. There has also been a counterposition between talking about salvation and talking about corruption, talking about salvation and talking about the decay of the Bourbon monarchy, because it is said that we are in a situation of health emergency or of social and economic crisis that should make us more concerned about this circumstance, about this situation. Well, in this sense, I would like to comment that in our motion for a resolution, in the motion for a resolution by Junts for Catalonia, the last point calls on the Government to put an end to all the actions in the competent areas that are at its fingertips to recover all the money that has been defrauded and stolen by the Spanish monarchy and to devote them to fighting the Covid and to dedicating them to the social crisis caused by the pandemic. So this is talking about what's going on, this is talking about this crisis, this situation so hard that we're in. Why, how many hospital beds could you afford with everything the monarch stole? How many hospital beds could the monarchy have to pay with all its assets? Well, the answer is we don't know, because we don't know what assets they have: he's got a stake. There is no minimum transparency and there is no minimum willingness to hold back your assets and your activities and your business. Therefore, it is clear that this debate is necessary and very necessary and is useful and productive, as has been said, or denied, is it not? I think it's useful and it's produced. There has also been much talk of the Pujol family and its comparison with the Spanish royal family. I love this comparison, the truth, I love it, and I want to make them a proposition, huh? I want to make a proposal to all the groups that have made this comparison: it is that I give the same treatment to the Spanish royal family that this Parliament or Catalan institutions have donated to the Pujol family: a commission of inquiry. Who said 3_per_cent or corruption wasn't investigated? In this Parliament there was a commission of inquiry into the corruption of the Pujol family; in this Parliament there was a commission of inquiry, which is not in the Congress of Deputies and which is not allowed here nor does it place a commission of inquiry into the monarchy. [[Greetings.]] This Parliament has investigated the corruption in Catalonia and what has been done. President Pujol has been stripped of all the honours and all the recognitions of the Catalan institutions: he does not have the office of President or the head of the honours. Why don't they do it, this, with the king of Spain, with the king emeritus? [[Greetings.]] Why don't they take away all his honors? Why don't they take away all the public media? Are you going to say that he has now escaped without the help of public media, public officials and public resources? Can the PSC explain? Can the common people explain it, with what resources has escaped justice and with what resources has it sustained itself now? And another one – this is what I like most, it's my favorite one –: the son, the hero of Jordi Pujol, of President Pujol, because of the corruption of the family has turned away from politics and ended up in prison. This is my proposal for Philip VI: that he withdraws from politics and invades prison. [[Rialles.]] Or aren't you the ones who compared the situation? So I, if you compare them, tell them: compare them, I love the comparison. But, if it's a comparison, let the same receipt apply. But we are not here to fix Spain's problems, we are not here to solve the decisions that the Spanish State must take about its form of state or about its institutional crisis, which is galloping. We are here because we suffer a situation of repression, we are here because in its moment we will decide mostly in reference to choosing to make a Catalan republic. And today it is important to remember it because it is more clear than ever that there are only two options: either the Bourbon monarchy or the Catalan republic – or the Bourbon monarchy or the Catalan republic. The plurinational republic... only knows that of Bolivia. And here they'll still report us, threaten us, tell us we've approved resolutions that they've already told us that we can't even publish them because we're already doing something that can't be done, and that's a shame that's also going to be reported. It cannot be that the king is inviolable to steal and this Parliament is not inviolable to denounce him. [[Some applause.]] In any case, that weak people who are in need of censorship and criminal prosecution of dissidents to endure a regime lapsed and coerced. For this reason, the groups of the independence majority have granted a resolution that speaks of the history of the monarchy, claims the republican rallies of Catalonia and claims the will of the majority of the citizens of Catalonia to constitute us as a Catalan republic. And it's not just rhetorical, it's time to make commitments, to make commitments and move forward. Only with independence will we allow repression to stand in the way. And we will continue to report it day by day, continue to report the repression, continue to report that Philip VI wanted to drop us with his October 3 speech. And we today and every day we have to say that we persist, and we have to say that we are here, that we are depressed and that he will fall before us. And they don't make us because of the threats and they don't make us because of the announcements of the complaint because now, in these uprisings, we have already found European justice – and today is a good day to remember it. And now Mr. Martín Blanco is referring to Valtònyc. I mean, I respect everything because the Spanish justice system or Mr Martín Blanco consider that Mr Valtònyc is a delinquent, but like the Belgian courts and the Court of Justice of the European Union have already given him the right, it's just as much as you say. And Mr. Lluís Puig today has also made it clear that he is not a person who has fled justice, he is a person who has found justice, he has found justice in Europe, which is where there is. Let me finish by saying that in the second motion for a resolution we are also talking about the while, what is to be done or what could be done, if they want to. We've done our dues and we've put in a catalogue of measures that could be done tomorrow, and we invite them to process them to put an end to the monarchy's impunity and to all the abuses that are being committed. We obviously end up with the figure of the king's inviolability. The king's inviolability means that if he kills someone he can't judge himself? The interpretation that is being made is this, but the normal, logical interpretation of the Constitution, of any jurist who is serious and democrat, is the one who gives the constituents when drafting the Constitution, which is that the king was not responsible for his acts when someone else is held responsible. This is the king's inviolability, or it was, or it should be. Who is responsible for the king's escape? Who is responsible for the king's corruption? Who was the day-to-day minister who went to Saudi Arabia to look for the suitcases full of millions? That's what we need to know. And if the Constitutional Court thinks the king is inviolable, what they have to say is who is responsible, who is responsible for all this. And that's why it's so important that we put the light and focus on the Spanish government, that according to the Constitution it has the responsibility for the acts of the King of Spain, the acts of the head of state. And ask too [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] or invite us, to put light and tachygraphs on all the heritage of the monarchy, as I said before, because, to know what they are defrauding us, to know how many hospital beds we could make with the money they have stolen from us, I might know how many they have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.71.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.72.0	...to start. So, as I said, before the impossibility of reforming this delinquent monarchy, the Catalan republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.73.0	It has the word ara, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Lord Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.74.0	Before we can explain our proposals for a resolution, let us reflect, which is that today will surely be the end of a motion for a resolution that will include the Catalan Government in the cause of the 3_per_cent actions, but all these years, we, the CUP, have been the only political party that has been as popularly accused in these actions, and we have not seen the rest of the Roman political groups in the actions, in fact, not so much as appearing, and we find ourselves only pursuing corruption in many judicial proceedings. Motions for resolutions that we make. The first, the first, is to reprimand the Bourbon monarchy, to reprimand Philip VI and to reprimand the Spanish Government, and especially Minister Carmen Calvo, who explained to us without a hint of blush as she facilitated the escape of the ancient Spanish king. Also, the second motion for a resolution: to express our solidarity with those and those reprisals to simply criticize the Spanish monarchy. Ask once you make a monarchy report and freedom of expression, that in the local area we can agree to do so – and we expressed it like this – those monarchy institutions or representatives of the monarchy that still participate in the local area in institutions or foundations. And last but not least, let's go over the denominator because we don't have anything left that can be an elevating a figure as undemocratic as the monarchy. These are our proposals. They will now allow us to value some historical and cultural reflections – historical and cultural – that took place at the late evening of today. President Quim Torra told us that we insulted him as a "nouncentrist". Let's think about what that means, or it can mean. But we also reflect on what it means that the spokesman of the People's Party, Mr. Fernández, has put in value the carrillism, the maximum representation of the direction of the Spanish Communist Party as a key piece in the 78's rule. And, therefore, the Spanish lefts have to reflect on what this means: a party founded by seven French ministers putting in value a representative of the Spanish left – do not do so at that time, for sure, they are doing it now, too. We want, yes, to share another historical story and talk about the history that we had with the CUP's companies today, saying. We remembered what was happening here a hundred and three years ago – now, when we say « here, I want to refer to the Ciutadella Park – and we remembered that the summer of 1917 there was an assembly of parliamentarians here behind, at the Palau del Governador, now the IES Verdaguer. And in that assembly of parliamentarians there were Catalan republicans, Catalan regionalists, but there were also Spanish republicans and Mr. Pablo Iglesias, as the most representative of the PSOE, participating in an assembly proposal constitute the Courts and break with the rule. We've moved from this to being the key to the rule. But we also want to do another thought. Look, if that didn't triumph, that summer, it's because certain political forces didn't want to coincide tactically with the general vagaries of the CNT and the UGT of that very summer. And now we give them: let's learn from history. When, about popular claims and needs, in terms of looking for the tactical coincidence that is fan are arguments, we do not have a process of construction of the rupture, we do not have a process of construction of the republic, we have another thing. And, therefore, that historical lesson, which we must go to coincide tactically with popular complaints, with the needs of our people, in the end and in the end. And we also wanted to explain why we would not vote in favour of some of the common resolution proposals. Look, with all due respect, you are placebo republicanism: in the form you seem republican, even in the colors, with a tricolor flag, but do not express the essence of republicanism, no tactical or strategic proposal that you made in the past years, neither now nor with a prospect of the future, to build a republic, nor Spanish or Catalan. And, therefore, in the end, what is left is a reality in which you raise a republican flag– certainly, not the Catalan one but the Spanish one–, but when you do not make a tactical or strategic proposal, there is nothing left of the republican, the only one left is a Spanish emblem, a Spanish sign. And it seems that the only one they're defending, therefore, would be the unit of Spain and not the republic. This is what we tell them because we... our aspiration, as before, is the effectiveness of the Catalan Republic and the construction of the Catalan Republic, which must not only be a popular national claim, which, of course, is democratic, but will also lead us to social progress. And with what we say to them is: our project has not been, is not and will not be the Spanish Republic, it will be the reality, as before better, of the Catalan Republic. That's right, we say that with the success of the Catalan Republic we break the chain of the 78th Regime and we have an exercise of internationalism and class solidarity with those people of the Spanish State who are seeking liberation. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Tell me, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.76.0	Yes, Mr. President. I believe that in the debates on whether or not to accept the reviews we have put forward, it has been stated by the senior lawyer that some of the points in the motions for resolutions were not going to be published. So far we have not seen the final text being put to the vote. I would ask that we be specified by the senior lawyer what we are going to vote on, and if what we are going to vote is going to be what is going to be published in the parliament's diary or not, let them tell us specifically. Because we have the right, I believe, all of us, to know what we will vote on and what effect it will have on what we vote on; whether everything we vote on is going to be published as approved in this Parliament or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.77.0	He knows perfectly well how the debate went, not just at the Bureau but at the subsequent review. We shall vote on what is foreseen in the plenary file, which is what all the Members and Members have, with the motions for resolutions that have been put to the vote, and which have therefore been dealt with in a timely manner. Sens perjudice, of course – you were also commenting, and you know all the members of the Bureau, but you have also extended yourself to the Board of Spokesmen – meaning perjury, said, that the Secretary-General has pointed out by the mouth of the major electorate to the Bureau which were the considerations respecting material development and how, in this case, Parliament's readers, therefore, have transferred to the parliamentary groups these limitations of material character, for these warnings of the Constitutional Court, which have also been transferred to the Bureau of the Parliament. Therefore, in any case, I answer the question that you asked, to the file of the plenary it is clear who are the motions for resolutions and at the same time it is also clear which is the view that the speakers have made to the Bureau. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Batet asks for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.78.0	Thank you, President. To make some considerations of respect, too. We wait and ask that everything that is voted here in the Parliament of Catalonia be published. And if there is any official of the Parliament of Catalonia who does not publish what is voted sovereignly here in the Parliament of Catalonia we ask the Bureau of the Parliament to take the appropriate measures and open the appropriate expedients, because you will have the duty to complete the one leading the sovereign, which is the one leading to the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.79.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.80.0	First of all, to contradict what the President has said. The motions for resolutions are not included in the plenary file – they are not. And secondly, to say that I understand that Mr Batet is threatening his lawyers that if they comply with the law and not what Mr Batet thinks they must comply, then they are being threatened with reprisals. What I want to say is that Mr. Major has stated that they were not going to be published. And I'm going to say the points so that it's on the record and I'm going to be told if this is what I'm saying or not. See paragraphs 4 and 5 of the joint motion for a resolution by Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya and the CUP, paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution by Esquerra Republicana, and paragraphs 2 and 7 of the CUP. We want to be confirmed whether the vote we are going to take here covers these points or not, and whether, if they are approved, they will be published in Parliament's diary or not, as the senior lawyer has said. And finally, I ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.81.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.82.0	... that what they do in private is explained to the public, that we all know what this Parliament is doing. That is the least we can ask of Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.83.0	Member, I would like to reiterate that it is in the Chamber's file. If you don't have tea, you'll get it. But in any case, I believe that it has been distributed to all parliamentary groups and to all Members with the motions for resolutions that have been put to the vote and that they are the ones who will continue to vote. As far as the publication is concerned, I have already commented before who have followed the considerations that the speakers have made to the Bureau, and I understand that they would act with order, so to speak, and depending on their considerations, that they have also been transferred to the Bureau. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Batet, that's it, because we're not going into a... [[For technical reasons, the last words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.84.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... in record the disagreement of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia that it does not approve, that it does not publish the things that are approved in the Parliament of Catalonia. I think it's a serious fact that it's not part of a normalized democracy. The Parliament of Catalonia must be able to talk about everything, it must be able to vote everything, and you will have the obligation to publish it. And we are against this decision, which tells me that no comment has been made on the Board of Spokesmen, and that, therefore, we do not agree that unilaterally the agreements that have been drawn up here in a sovereign way to the Parliament of Catalonia are not published.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-08-07-5901.85.0	All right. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. As I said, the first motion for a resolution is the one tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar. We vote for resolution number 1, with the built-in error correction affecting your apartment number 3. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 130 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 57 votes to 33, with 44 abstentions. And we are voting now on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let's vote number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 8 votes to 57, with 69 abstentions. And we vote on number two. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 8 votes to 126, with no abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's vote number one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 77, with no abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 57 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's vote number one. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's vote number one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. Let's vote number two. The vote begins. It was adopted by 101 votes to 33, with no abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions submitted jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Crida Constituent. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And we are voting now for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Crida Constituent. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 65, with no abstentions. And we are now voting on motion for resolution No. 2. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. There are no more motions for resolutions to vote. Let's get the session up, thank you.
