ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies... Let's resume the session – thank you. [[Ask the Government about the educational model]] [[310-00295/12]] The fourth point of the order of the day are the oral questions to the Government. And the first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Daniel Serrano, and it's about the educational model. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.2.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, how do you assess the impact of the Decree on the programming of the educational offer and the procedure for admission to educational institutions in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.3.0	To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló ; when he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.4.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, this draft decree is in debate, consensus and negotiation. Precisely pending from the first report of the School Council of Catalonia, which will be issued in a plethora of this week. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.5.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word – excuses.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.6.0	Thank you, President. Mr Bargalló, you know perfectly well that in the concerted school, and especially in the differentiated school, there is a deep concern with this decree: concern of the parents who opt for this educational model and who see how they want to limit their ability to choose; concern in the concerted educational centres, from the teachers to the managers of the centres themselves, because their autonomy of self-management is eliminated, and concern of employers and associations in the sector, because they see how they want to impose a model in which they do not believe, and also without sufficient funding. As you see, Mr Bargalló, the concern in the concerted school is high, and there are reasons for it. You intend to impose this decree without the consensus of the affected educational community and with an articulated one that clearly violates the Constitution. And everything to rinse their poor management at the head of the Catalan education system. Mr Bargalló, the problems of public education will not be solved at the expense of trampling on the rights of concerted education. With this decree you sign a declaration of war to the concerted school, and this is credited by the more than 120,000 signatures submitted against this decree. We do not understand why the current model of the Catalan educational network, formed by public concerted and private institutions, is being questioned, which guarantees not only education for everyone, but also preserves maximum educational pluralism. Mr Bargalló, this decree puts an end to this model, does not respect the right of parents to choose the education of their children and breaks the autonomy of the concerted centres for self-management. With this decree what you intend to be, areas of decision that belong to the parents and the concerted centers, replace those by their exclusive decision. That is why, Mr. Counsellor, do not move forward, and you better withdraw this decree. It makes no sense that a government that has already written the epitaph of the legislature intends to condition the next school year by adopting a decree that the only thing it seeks is to end the model of concerted school, violating the right of parents to choose the education of their children. That is why, Mr Bargalló, withdraw this disproportion of decree and do not overstep the rights of tens of thousands of parents who, I insist, only pretend to choose the education of their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.7.0	To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.8.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, first you read the decree, because what you said is only a consequence of not having read it. If you read it, I'd see that what he said is not true. This decree and the decree of educational concerts, which we have been negotiating since July with the various employers of the school, and today there is a meeting to continue negotiating, both decrees come from the Covenant against Segregation, both decrees come from the Law of Education of Catalonia and both decrees come from the National Pact for Education. Therefore, they come from marked lines for a broad consensus. You said and talked about the differentiated school, which seems to me to be what really hurts you, the decrees. The decrees are going to defend the rights, the rights of the families of the school. What they're not going to do is defend privileges. We're for rights and we're for privileges. And we're against the segregation of students by gender. And the decrees make clear what the LEC already makes clear: there will be no educational concerts for those schools that secrete by genera. There will be no polite concerts for those schools that secrete by genera. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about policies to avoid the suffering of victims of male violence and encourage emotional recovery]] [[310-00299/12]] The next question is about policies to avoid the suffering of victims of male violence and to encourage emotional recovery. And the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Najat Driuech. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The Republic Group is very clear that one of the main challenges we need to address as a society is to ensure effective equality between men and women. And that's why from our government action we've been compromised on this goal, from the visualization of women pages to women's ills, to changing paradigms and establishing us referring to our childhood. As a result, it is important that we also strengthen assigned dates such as yesterday, the International Day of the Lady and the Girl in Science. From our public responsibility, we always work in consequence with this objective, and a good example is the Equality Platform of this Parliament or the Monograph Ple on the Rights of Women. In fact, we should keep the debate on the day to day of the women, because we have not finished the work. We have to make a big social impact, because society, in a cross-cutting way, puts us all at the centre once and for all. And we can't forget that in this front one of the most brutal factors is male violence, which can fight with the compromise of the whole city. All the changes sum up: from the best of the illumination of our streets, with a gender perspective, to the denunciation of any type of masculinism or micromasclinism. And, therefore, it also affects the jutjats. Before the announcement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to reorder the jutjats of violence against women, which involves an extension of the victims of these jutjats, it is important for the municipalities to be confabulated to plant it. And so do we. That's why we want to know, Counselor: what actions in this sense are there within your department? How do you think, from the Department of Justice, working to face a sacra that only we carry of year has already murdered five women to Catalonia? How do they intend to improve their attention to these victims of male violence?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.12.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MPs, thanks for the question. Miri, every year we have around 23,000 reports of male rape. Last year, new women died and you also pointed out what we're already wearing just to start the year. We must avoid the double victimization of women, of women who suffer male violence, and therefore, also, the anguish and patience that entails, therefore, facing a procedure and complaint. And what does that mean? That we must be much faster, faster in identifying the sequels, the physical, the psychic, the women and the girls and the children. And we also need to be much more effective and effective at identifying disorders, aggressiveness, consumption, addictions of people who are also aggressors. And now, at this point, we're cheating a half a year ago. Obviously, it's too much time, and we need to put the emphasis on less time, and that means that, in the new system we're setting up, the maximum time for reporting will be six months. That's it... and in this sense we're going to deploy a new system of functioning to male-violation jutjats, which will mean teams working in a coordinated and joint manner, forensics, psychologists, social workers, under the baton of a coordinator who will make there a single report, and therefore this will shorten the time of instruction, and so also the way that victims can recover emotionally more quickly. You already know that Catalonia is at the top of the entire state in protection orders, as are the orders to extend to victims of male violence. So, we're putting in one more element because that's not the way it is. And, as you asked me directly, we do not share the proposal to modify the judicial demarcation made for the High Court of Justice of Catalonia. The Administration of Justice must be in the service of the city, must be close to the city, not extend it further. And it's obvious that justice also needs a feminist look, a benevolent look and the look of the woman in which is the development of the Administration of Justice. This is why we bet for the Observers of Masclist Violence in the field of justice; for the Self-Managed Unit of Brians Donations 1; for courses on prison masculinism, masculinism and micromascinism; for the recognition of transgender people in prison centres; for the suppression of genera and male expressions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.13.0	Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.14.0	...also in texts of the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.15.0	Thank you. [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the government about the railway services to the lands of the Ebre and the Camp of Tarragona]] [[310-00300/12]] The next question is about the railway services to the Lands of Ebro and the Camp of Tarragona, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Alfons Montserrat. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.16.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, good morning. Well, together, regional councils, entities and social movements of the Ebre Lands have demonstrated their disgust and rebuff for the new planning of railway services announced for the Spanish government. In fact, twenty years of hope and 700_million euros of inversion later, the general feeling in our territory is that we feel deceived and with a worse service. The entry into operation of the Vandellòs-Tarragona variant, along with the improvement of the service map, years on, supposes an unacceptable setback respect to what we had until now. And it's not a waste that, in this supposed improvement, the regional trains still haven't recovered the duration of the trajectories they had before the modification that was made in 2016. Nor do their paces increase, the regional services of the lines R-15– Reus, Mora, Flix – and R-16– that set Tortosa, Aldea, Ametlla, until Tarragona – are scarcely reliable and the duration of the journey until Barcelona triga more today than not now for years. And our connection to the north of Castelló continues to feel limited mass, huh? We consider it unacceptable that the Ebre should be removed from the Euromed era and replaced by a single high-speed service every day in Barcelona, the same way that it would again be a hardship for Tarragona to become the only provincial capital without Euromed. Changes in regional train timetables also mean that there is a strain on Tarragona's veins and veins, which have lost frequencies in peak hours. That's why we need more high-speed service to the territories, shuttle train connections to the Tarragona Camp station and, if you're looking, the adequacy of train rates like the Talgos. And it is for this reason that this diumenge, on the 16th, the people of the Jew, as we have so many times done, we will again manifest ourselves, this time in the Village, against the degradation of the railway service and on worthy trains. And that's why, counselor, huh? That we ask you if you can explain to us the best that you are working on the new railway map of the Lands of the Ebro and Camp of Tarragona...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.17.0	Congressman, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.18.0	...as well as the possibility of following... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.19.0	Thank you. To answer the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisers, deputies and deputies..., deputy, the bet of the Government of the Generality, and concretely also of the Department of Territories, for the Mediterranean Corridor has been firm and historically, therefore, contrasted. We as the government bet because it's made this difference between Vandellòs and the Nus de Vila-seca, because it had to effectively mean a substantial better amount of rail services to Camp Tarragona and the Lands of the Jews, and also in our relationship with the Valencia Country. What's going on, what's been a verinadous work, very verinadous; it's done a lot, and when it's finally put itself in service, it doesn't complete the expectations that we've set ourselves as either government or obviously from the territories. We had predicted that something would happen. And, in fact, in the middle of last year we already presented an offer of railway services to Renfe that it was not to lower either the service or the quality of the service. But I have to tell him they didn't listen to us. I must say that, finally, after having advanced us with this proposal of railway services, in the middle of disembarkation of the past year – therefore, much after the inn date in service of the variant –, the new offer of railway services is presented in which we see clearly how priority was given to the commercial possibility between Barcelona and València to the detriment of the services with Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre, both the interiors and in their relationship with Barcelona. We did what we could. We offered to maintain the Euromed contract and it was not accepted. Just offering a slot – which is called a "banda", which we have covered with this Avant, which you make reference to, which is insufficient. But it is also true that we have high speed between Tortosa and Barcelona, with a competitive time, with prices similar to what we have with the rest of the demarcation capitals, but they are still lacking. We continue to struggle because the railway services recover that speed of the regionals that promised when he pulled the works of the variant. And obviously all this we need to complement; we also need to complement it with better bus services. You already know that we have one-euro subsidies for all intercity services in the Jewish Lands; we also have the Camp de Tarragona system, so integrated, with subsidized titles that allow intermodality. In short, what we will do from the Government of the Generality is continue to work because the railway services of Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre complete the expectations of the territory [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Also with this magical work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.21.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.22.0	...of the Vandellòs variant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.23.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the "Do not change language" program]] [[310-00301/12]] The next question is about the program« Don't change my language. I put the question, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Erra. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.24.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguda consellera, in Catalonia, historically land of emigration and accollida, the Catalan language has always incorporated us talking. They are aware of the migratory flows from the world we have in Catalonia, the Catalan language is an important value of integration and to guarantee its access to its learning, its use as the element of social cohesion and as the generator of opportunities. Now, what's wrong with us? So one of the costumes and a great defect of many Catalan speakers is to change the language. That is to say, pass directly to the castle when the interlocutor they have in front of them seems to be alienating or simply does not speak Catalan. There is a confusion, which exists among Catalan speakers, which seriously harms our language. Think that addressing someone in the castle is an act of respect. And it's not like that. In other words, when we change our language, they avoid that those who want to learn it can't do it. The català is a lenght of accompaniment, that germana, that offers opportunities to the country where you live. Now, if this one can't seduce us talking and make it usual between them, every time it's harder for the català to grow up. We need to raise awareness of the native Catalans who have hidden people outside who want to learn the Catalan [[remorse of the voice]] , and put away the custom very present in certain areas of the country to always speak in castle with any person who by his physical appearance or by his name does not seem Catalan. September past [[the remorse of the voice persists]] It presented the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.25.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.26.0	... "Do not change my language, a campaign precisely driven, for new people who defend the language that unites us, that equals us, that German, the Catalan language. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.27.0	Quiet, everybody...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.28.0	More than that. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] to ask for favorable conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.29.0	Quiet, everybody!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.30.0	... to facilitate access to the Catalan language, the initiative aims to raise awareness among Catalan speakers so that they do not change the language when they believe, by the accent or by the physical trets, that their interlocutor is not born in Catalonia. For all this, the question I am asking you, counsel, is: what is the Government's appreciation of the program?« Don't change my language?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.31.0	To answer the question you have the word Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Mariângela Vilallonga. They're gonna silence all the deputies and deputies. Go ahead, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.32.0	Thank you very much, President. President – I'm glad you're here again – advisors, advisors, MPs, MPs... As with you, Mrs Anna Erra, the Government is concerned about the social use of Catalan language and we applaud all the initiatives that make it easier for you to access the language so that everyone can do their own. For this reason, we value very positively and positively actions like this campaign, which appeared in September 2019, with this slogan: "Don't change my language. The objective is just this: that Catalan speakers keep the català when they talk to people who don't know if they speak. I want to fill in the importance of the campaign for the compromise that assumes that people new to the country are joining and will abandon the defense of the català. Thank you, Mrs. Rosario Palomino, and to all the people who are with you, and I greet you with affection, thank you for being here today, and thank you also for believing that the català is a lengua d'accollida, a germana, to help us not to lose the lengua. According to the latest Inquire of the linguistic uses of the population, of 2018, almost 900,000 people hidden in the foreigner have shown interest in learning Catalan in Catalonia. For this reason, from the Department of Culture we support this campaign; we do not accompany the diffusion and promote it among the most eighty-thousand students and the twenty-two Consortium centres for Linguistic Normalization. Since the creation of the consortium, the year 1989, they have enrolled in the Catalan course almost 2_million people, and, since 2008, the online course Parla. Cat has collected more than 240,000 inscriptions to learn català. Now the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization includes more measures of economic type so that everyone can learn Catalan. We were already free of the initial level courses and with the new assumptions of 2020 we extend the gratuity to other...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.33.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.34.0	... basic level courses. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.35.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the post-merge agreement]] [[310-00302/12]] The next question is about the post-merge agreement. I ask the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Marta Madrenas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.36.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, welcome president, counselors, counselors, company and company, deputies. It's been a few weeks since the temporary Gloria hit Catalonia. Councillor Budo, in the first place, I think we have a record for all victims. And in this sense, we send a warm embrace to all your family members and all your friends for the painful situation they are going to have to face, so all these days. But the storm also left scenes of desolation, especially the Ebre Delta, the Lower Ter and the Tordera hordes. In just five days, as a result of the extreme violence of the storm, it was necessary to activate the three plans of emergence at the same time – the Neucat, the Ventcat, the Inuncat – a truly exceptional circumstance. If it is true that the Mediterranean climate is accustomed to episodes of torrential and virulent plugs, it cannot be obviated, however, that we also find ourselves in front of a palpable climate crisis that will place us each time more often in situations of emergence as viscudes recently. For five days it seemed that they would never end, the mayors, governors and governors of this country, worked colza with the government, with President Torra in the lead, to articulate a management that was certainly very complex. The local world and the government were always at the edge of the canon, and the emergency teams, all the police, firemen, health workers, civil protection workers, rural agents, civil protection volunteers, wine associations, school addresses and so many others, showed themselves with an intense vocation of public service and extraordinarily prepared and professional. All this gear at the people's service was done, and that's why it was also so well valued for citizenship. But now you can manage the post-merger, Counselor. How can the government help deal with the damage caused by the ducks? What proposals does the government have to face even better future emergencies as we have experienced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.38.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I am certain that you, as the mayor of your city, and other mayors in other cities of this country, have experienced this emergence that has occurred these past days and are also good connoisseurs of the needs that are generated at this new stage, which is that of post-merge management. And, indeed, a few weeks ago our country was hit by temporary Gloria. But sadly, this wasn't the only natural disaster we've suffered this past year. We're talking about the helpers in the Third, we're talking about the helpers in Tarragona, the fire in the Ribera, the helpers in the Conca and the Garrigues, and, recently, as we say, the temporary Gloria. And all these cases of natural disasters, just these, are the ones we've been through this past year. Therefore, as the government certainly comes to the conclusion that this is no longer an extraordinary fact. As the studies tell us, the climate change has certainly caused the problems that were previously punctual to become structural problems, and therefore the answer that we must give from the government must also be a structural answer. And before that we have approved the Programme for the Coordination of Post-merge Measures for Natural Disasters and Other Emergencies, because we need a clear protocol in the institutional response and because we need to create coordination mechanisms between the different departments of the Generality and between the different administrations. As I said to the beginning, you, as the mayor, know well the needs of the post-merger, and the functions that this program will have, precisely, we believe they will give you an answer. We are talking, for example, about the collection and analysis of damage and damage; we are talking about the coordination of the different measures of the different departments or administrations; about the drafting of a recovery plan that reverses all the measures taken by all the administrations, or about the follow-up of the implementation of these measures taken and the assessment of their impact and also the implementation of better proposals. And that, in addition, we will do, every time this program is to be developed, it will be done with a coordination cabinet and also counting on the territorial commissions, so that the government and all the agents of the territory will work in coordination. That's phoney. We are ahead of a new reality that transforms the answer that until now was extraordinary into an ordinary answer, because events like temporary Gloria at our house are no longer exceptional and may be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.39.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.40.0	...ready. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.41.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the Hospital Sant Bernabé, Berga]] [[310-00293/12]] The next question is about the Hospital de Sant Bernabé, de Berga, and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Marta Moreta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The departure of the Hospital Sant Bernabé, from Berga, to the CatSalut is a topic that has long been at the table of the Generalitat de Catalunya. The objective of this management change would be to keep healthcare and social-health devices functioning within the public system, ensuring their viability, increasing their capacity for resolution and quality, obviously benefiting the population. In fact, this idea was announced by its predecessor in 2017. Then he explained that it would be a new public company of the Servei Català de la Salut to manage the hospital of regional character, and that it would name Salut Catalunya Central, which would enter into operation, presumably, on July 1, 2018. This meant a change of ownership of the sanitary equipment, which ceased to depend administratively on the vigourous consistor to move to the hands of the Generality. In 2018 the Board of Directors of the CatSalut approved the proposal of states of the new public company Salut Catalunya Central and the appropriate regulator to subscribe between the Government of Catalonia and the Assembly of Berga with the aim of managing the Hospital of Sant Bernabé. Could you tell me how the creation of this public enterprise is at this time?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.43.0	To answer the question you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.44.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Congresswoman, so, well, you've already made an exposition of the entire history, haven't you? , of this decision to strengthen the health system of Catalonia, precisely with entities that are managed from the Català Health Service and that until now are managed from the same joints. Why is that? So why so that we can face these challenges of the future that our health system has, precisely, to give tools; which, at these times, are very complicated together. And, therefore, in an assembly like Berga's, that the hospital's premise exceeds the premise of the same together, this is essential. This has been done by the Department of Health; obviously, by the Assembly of Berga, and by the Department of Vice-Presidents, Economy and History of the Generality of Catalonia. You know that in the administration they are... and, especially if we want to do things right, that we have all the reports, that we pass all the proper procedures so that these decisions are robust and are kept, obviously, and not cause, above all, no problem at source, and therefore, that's what we're doing. That's what we're doing to work on it and to be able to have it in the next few weeks as well... so let's do this: the public enterprise – public enterprise – of Salut Catalunya Central, essential to be able to have this regulatory agreement that will regulate the activity of our hospital, of the Catalonia health system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.45.0	To answer the question, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.46.0	Well, she advises, it would be good that this "a couple of weeks is already directly concrete, because since 2018, so, already..., and 17, which did its predecessor, has already done enough. It is obvious that it is a problem for the Berga Assembly, an assembly of seven thousand inhabitants, because it mortgages, as I said, all the assembly to dedicate its daily task, that it is to increase resources and be able to do debt to do works. Do you know, will you advise – and, of course, will you know – that the Berga Assembly had to make a credit policy to deal with the hospital staff's payments? Even though the assumptions that were expected to be approved in the near future provide for an investment of EUR 600,000, which must now be appreciated, now its advice – now, at this time – is based on the idea that a plan of viability should be drawn up, when it seemed that it was all set up for its implementation. What's the argument now about this petition? And, above all, she would advise, because if the people knew, we would want to know – and that you were concrete to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.47.0	Congresswoman, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.48.0	Yeah, why... when's the manager's move?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word again you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.50.0	Thank you, President. Well, if I want to explain what made it rain and dropped the 155 that you picked up. [[Widow's remorse.]] This is one, this is one, and we've explained it many times, which is what's been going on in all these months that left 155 of us without government in the Generality of Catalonia. That said, we have been working very hard to strengthen the Catalonian health system, the same as we did to Móra d'Ebre, the same as we did to the Hospital of Reus, the same as we would to the Hospital of Berga, because there is a clear priority, which is assistance and which is to seek and seek this equity in healthcare care. And this means that we have a very special focus in this context, a context of the Bergedah, a context with little population, a context with an enveloped population, which will – it will be necessary – have tools to be able to work better in the network and better connected in our health system in Catalonia. So, we're asking for everything, we're not hanging out with anything that's not looking for people's assistance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.51.0	Counselor, thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the situation of farmers]] [[310-00294/12]] The next question is about the situation of farmers and the formula, in the name of Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Óscar Ordeig. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.52.0	Good morning, President. In the first place, warn of the dangerousness of valuing people for their image, eh? , and its appearance. We're all Catalans and we have to be recognizable with that. [[Greetings.]] Second place... [[applause persists]] – that spends time, companies–, a recognition and recovery from Parliament to farmers and farmers and support for demands and mobilizations for the crisis of price and for the crisis of the rural world. It's a reptile of a country that asks us all and everyone. It will advise, we are a European agri-food referent, we are references in the production of healthy foods, we are 17_percent of the GDP of the industry of Catalonia, but, unfortunately, we are also before a difficult crisis for the priests who are paying for..., who are remunerating farmers, we are before a difficult crisis, we are before a difficult country problem that requires the attention of all, which is also reproduced in other parts of the State, which is also reproduced in other parts of Europe, and which exacerbates the depopulation and the crisis of the rural world. We believe, counsel, that the agrarian world, the current agrarian model is in crisis and can help it. We are ahead of a retreat, which we hope will not be irreparable, of small towns, of territories and the disappearance of many farms. Counselor, a kilo of pressecs two years ago was paid to the producer at sixty cents, at these times being paid at twenty cents. Sixty cents, twenty cents for a kilo of fruit, when the CPI has raised an 18_per_cent, when all prices, costs have risen. Councillor, what measures will the Government take to deal with the food producers' price crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.53.0	To answer the question, the words of the Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.54.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning to all of you. Mr. Ordeig, thank you for expressing this concern that, as you very well say, it is not or should not be a concern only of the department that I have the honor to encapsulate, but that is obviously a concern of the country, and that goes much further there, is circumscribed much more beyond our country, because it is a problem, obviously, that affects other territories of the State and, obviously, also of Europe. Well, you know perfectly well, as I do, that the problem of the priests is a problem that goes from the moon, you know perfectly well that it is a structural problem and that, precisely, this structural problem means that we have to approach it from many points of view. We, as the department, are on this issue; in fact, I think – and I say I am convinced – that we have done more than we are close to, but, despite everything, also adding us absolutely to the demands of the sector, we are loving to continue working as much as we can, more, to invent or reinvent. In fact, we also subscribed to the mayors' manifesto and we are absolutely on the side of the sector and the claim of this divender. But in any case, they also demand the due diligence of the world of the responsibilities of other administrations, not only of the European Union, but also of the ministry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.55.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.56.0	He will advise, with a 1,3_per_cent of the presupposition to Agriculture we will not arrive in place. Nor will we arrive in place detailing an 80_percent of the public investment since 2010 to territories with more difficulties, such as Lleida or Lands of the Ebre. We have proposed it and we will put it back on the table: we need to bring together the sector, the parties and define a joint strategy with assumptions and measures from here, with the necessary funding. And we also naturally go to meetings in Madrid, not to leave the chair empty; as we go to Brussels and where the interests of all Catalans and Catalans are defended. The struggle of the Aragonese farmers, Valencians or ballets many times is shared with ours. And it gives me the feeling that in the end they're still excuses, it's still the rhetoric of the imaginary republic, the rhetoric of 155, in the end, to avoid taking solutions and we're convinced that this won't cover up so many incompliments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.57.0	Congressman, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.58.0	...and so many heavinesses of sector and territory. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.59.0	To answer the word again you have the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.60.0	Two previous very quick, because with a minute I don't know if I'll have time. First question: the complicity of Aragó, of Murcia, of any other autonomous community we want and need. In fact, if only we, Catalonia, make a withdrawal plan, with 10_million euros from the table, and the rest of the territories don't like it, it serves very little. Two: more often, Mr. Ordeig, that you repeat and write in different Lleida diaries that the department's premise is the worst of the last two years, this will not be true. It won't be true. And someone says it, but obviously it is perfectly understood that from the last assumption of 2015 to today's assumption, the assumption of this department has increased by 30_per_cent. Is it insufficient? Well, I'm sure of it. Of course, because this country still needs to be understood..., and I believe that precisely what is happening is an opportunity, yet we still need to hear, also in the Parliament of this country, that agriculture, food and fishing in this country is an essential sector for the country and that we must approach it from all points of view. And it doesn't change: I had the chance to talk to the minister yesterday – I'm not in Madrid today, I'm here, because we also have an important job – and what they're dealing with in Madrid today knows the minister I agree with. Now we just hope it's true.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.61.0	Counselor, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.62.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.63.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about educational concerts and admission procedures in the centres of the Education Service of Catalonia]] [[310-00298/12]] The next question is about the educational concerts and the admission procedure in the centers of the Education Service of Catalonia, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.64.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. School segregation is a clear source of inequality and violates the right to education under conditions of equal opportunity. These past few days, we have seen with concern as a part of the employers of the concerted school and the most conservative sectors of the Catalan society moving on the ground and on the ground against the new decree of admission. In fact, we have seen it right now with the intervention of the People's Party. A decree which, in our view, seeks to combat segregation. Counselor, can you guarantee that the decree will move forward in the terms that are currently drafted – that they are the terms of the Covenant against Segregation – that it will do so with the support of the entire government, and that we will, for once, cease to finance publicly the choices that discriminate by sex? And what will they detect and act like they have enough resources to provide for all cases of students with specific needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor d'Educació, Mr. Josep Bargalló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.66.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, the two decrees, the admission and the concert, are not covered by the Segregation Pact, the LEC and the National Education Pact. The two decrees are in a negotiation process and converse and dialog. I can't guarantee that when the decree is approved for the government, or the two decrees, it's literally word by word, and like by like, as it is now, because they're in this dialy process. I can assure you that when the two decrees are approved by the Government, they will contain the measures of the Covenant against Segregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.67.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.68.0	We would have liked a firmer compromise with the fight against segregation, and neither did he answer me, Counselor, whether he relies on the support or not of his entire government. And we're worried, because over the last few years we've seen how your government partners have been opposing the deployment of this model. In any case, as you said, the decree only implements the LEC, approved in 2010. But of course, there have been two years, counselor, and the data show that during this past decade there has been no, absolutely no better, for what it does to the dynamics of segregation of the Catalan education system. To our understanding, the new decree of admission, the project that there is on the table, takes very strenuous steps to reverse this situation. We understand that the balance of the system to fight against..., to be carried out in the fight against segregation can only be achieved from a programming of the offer, as laid down by the decree, corresponding the joint responsibility of the centers, with the participation of the educational community and on a territorial basis. Because the role of local planning tables is for us a key piece, because it allows us to approximate educational planning to the different territorial realities with a municipalist logic. The assemblies cannot be peripheral actors of the Catalan education system, but must become central actors. And look, it was talked before the center election freedom. The LEC also establishes equity, school inclusion and social cohesion as guiding principles. We understand that all these principles are to be integrated as has been done so far through a model agreed upon. Because if we go to another model, if we only fix ourselves in the freedom of center election – as previously proposed, it seemed, the deputy of the People's Party – then we would be generating another model. In fact, a model very similar to that which inspires measures such as parental pine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.69.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.70.0	Thank you, President. I agree with the essential part of his speech, because it is obvious. It is clear that one of the problems of our education system and the education system in many parts of Europe is equity, the absolutation of equity or the maintenance of segregation. To achieve fairness, to fight segregation, we have to defend rights, and we have to end with privileges. And the right of center choice – which exists – is a right that can only be heard by equity and real in the brand of the offer programming. If there is no offer schedule, there is no right of choice. And it is clear, therefore, that the whole community participates in it and we understand the community from the local world to the Administration of the Generality, passing, obviously, for the representatives of the holders, for the representatives of the centres, for the representatives of the families. This is a very important key and we can't improve the system if we don't work for fairness. And to work for fairness we need tools, hidden tools of a broad consensus, of the broad consensus that promoted the national pact, that achieved the LEC and that achieved the Pact against Segregation. It wasn't unanimous in any of the cases. But we are for consensus, because we also know that the unanimous end is false and the consensus allows us to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.71.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about healthcare management]] [[310-00296/12]] The next question is about the management of healthcare, and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.72.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Well, I turn to the camera, first of all, to regret the racist and supremacist words of a companion, which only serve to explain how with total impunity among people in health centers to threaten directors and their colleagues for speaking Spanish in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] But, well, today I wanted to talk, counselor, about the health system. In Catalonia we find ourselves today with a moderate-level flu epidemic, with a rate of 359 cases per hundred and a thousand inhabitants, which is in the phase of rising and with a very high incidence in children, especially in those aged between five and fourteen years. Now we have a lot of collapsing hospitals, with rubber-to- rubber-filled emergencies, and primary care consultations saturated and with indecent care delay. We would like to know, therefore, his appreciation of how the healthcare system is responding, what changes you have made to avoid these care collapses and how accessibility is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.73.0	To answer the word has the greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.74.0	Thank you, President. MP, so yes, well, you said it, week 5, and I see that you read the Pidirac's weekly reports: 359 cases per hundred_ thousand inhabitants; therefore, you overcome this outburst of 98 cases per hundred_ thousand inhabitants who end up putting us in an epidemic of influenza. And so, that's why we did the Plan, that's why we've had PIUC many years ago, that's why we did the Plan, to insist on the importance of planning well that management when demand is more tense than ever, than it is in the cases of annual epidemic, influenza epidemic. For this reason, in the framework of the Plan, we have insisted on placing in the emergency room, in the winter period 2019-2020, 21.4 million euros, more than ever, 3,3 million euros dedicated exclusively to primary, destined for primary, which we started to do the past year, which had never been done before, and therefore this figure also increases it, where all CAPs have been strengthened to cope with the grip and managed this reinforcement in the way they considered most appropriate to manage this growing demand, more spontaneous demand and acute demand. 3,3_million euros in the socio-sanitary field, essential for managing an epidemic such as influenza, plus all the epidemic of respiratory diseases that we are also living and that start even before the epidemic of influenza, and 14,8_million euros in the hospital field. All of this is done by gearing up these twenty-three emergency and emergency operating committees that we put in operation and that from the 1st of December until March is gathered every week. And every week at the national level we do these videoconferencing to make it the most accurate follow-up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.75.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the deputy has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.76.0	Clearly, she advises, but she is oblivious to important things as well. Two years ago, when the government had not yet been formed, which now recognizes that the legislature has exhausted, Ciutadans presented here a proposal entitled "On the epidemic of influenza and other possible epidemics. In this situation, we were alerted exactly to the same situation that two years ago: a collapsing situation, patients who end up in hospital emergencies because primary care is saturated, and many of the care centers have not strengthened. Already in this proposal we appreciate the work of the health professionals, who make an impressive pocket, and we urge you to implement an annual plan of automatic renewal that you allow the primary care to be more autonomous, to provide primary care centres with greater care coverage, twenty-four hours. Because I need to insist a lot on influenza vaccination campaigns in all those specially recommended collections. It meant giving greater educational diffusion, with hygienic measures, prevention, and strengthening the role of community pharmacy in education for health and the promotion of self-care, in coordination with the primary care team at the health centers. But, she said, our proposal was intended to be adopted in a cross-cutting way by the Health Commission, but her Government, which recognizes 'finished and amortized the legislature, has not used the time or resources to improve the management of the grip. The Catalans follow without a better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.77.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.78.0	...health system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.79.0	... your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.80.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.81.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.82.0	Thank you, President. I give them thanks because once again it gives me the opportunity to explain to the whole hemisphere and explain to the citizenry of Catalonia that yes, that this government has precisely prioritized primary care, and in many areas, and also in the reinforcements of the grip. I was able to explain to him before – perhaps he didn't listen to me – that for the first time last year this government set up a game of the Winter Plan, of the Catalonia Emergency Plan, intended exclusively for primary school, beyond what we did in primary school to improve its resolution capacity. And that's what we're implementing. As far as I'm concerned, we're doing everything that Catalonia's citizenry and health care system needs, as we're also strengthening 061, and we're also strengthening the EMS.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.83.0	Counselor... thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the management of the staff of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00297/12]] The next question to the Government is about the management of staff of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.84.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, a thing like the Squad moss, with a hierarchical structure, in which agents face special conditions of peril, needs to hold high morale, and the best way to achieve it, sense of doubt, is to keep equanimity and equality in dealing with all agents, always according to laws and regulations. Counselor, what measures do you intend to take to ensure equanimity, equality and adequacy to the laws and regulations of the treaty governing the agents of the Squadron Cos de Mossos?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.85.0	To answer the word to the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.86.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone, congressmen, congressmen. Member, the truth is that the question is not quite clear, I did not know where the answer goes, but in any case, if you want, the type is to say that we are complying with the regulations, the decrees and the current laws, do and to have them, and therefore, it will complement everything as it is. If I develop a little more the question, I love the life of being able to answer it correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.87.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.88.0	Yes, counselor. Citizens have repeatedly insisted on the need to adapt the procedures of the Internal Affairs Division to legality and avoid any shadow of arbitrariness. In fact, the previous legislature has already promoted a motion, approved in plenary session of this Parliament, which promoted the necessary change in the disciplinary regime and its application by the Division of Internal Affairs. This legislature has also been introduced, and it has been approved in full. We have repeatedly denounced the abuse suffered by the agents affected by some – from our point of view, masses – dispatchers. We have also denounced in its parliament the permissiveness of the DAI with the impropie conducts of some agents, who have always found an incomprehensible understanding on the part of the department; especially incomprehensible in a period when the government promotes a purge against agents acting in the tumults of the past October. It's a paradigmatic promotion of Sergeant Escola after he's had a hard time escorting an investigator for heavy crimes. A few days ago it seems that there has been action against some agents who, bearing in mind their condition of police, have devoted themselves to insulting other agents, politicians and, even so, other institutions and institutions of the State; even though it is late, welcome is this rent face to face. But I repeat that there is a parliamentary mandate to avoid inquisitorial practices in the application of the disciplinary regime. Will they do it before this term is over? And, please, get the dispatcher that we asked you about the agent who reported the boycott to the National Police by a mechanic to Reus, a dispatcher who hasn't yet released us, even though they have rejected the gentleman from Parliament and the agency guaranteeing the right of access to public information, and also to have the commitment of the Director General of the Police. This and the rest of the anonymous expedients we've asked for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.89.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.90.0	It's getting late. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.91.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.92.0	Thank you, President. The consignment is being processed, and the tendon as soon as possible, I don't feel sorry, like all the shippers and all the questions that arise in the department, which we answer on time. Uh... I don't know, you have an open war against the Squad Coast, you have an open war against the police of Catalonia, you have demonstrated at the length of these divisions, huh? In this year and a half, they've demonstrated from envelopes what is for you the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. And, therefore, seek to laminate him, seek to go against him, to discredit him, now with the DAI; if he remembers, his head of files, that which no longer appears by place– ex-cap of files –, the Lord Rivera, said that the Law of National Security had been applied to take control of the Mossos d'Esquadra; they have spoken many times against the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and against the impartiality of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra... Therefore, you do not stop rolling, permanently, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Now you're worried about the DAI. But do you know what's going on? That in these times you have done this, going against a respected police body, a high professionalism and a high quality, with procedures suitable for correcting conducts that are not suited to that of a police officer or to that of a police officer; you have done this in these times. In these times we have made 1,500 missing moves; we have entered the CITCO, which are against it; we have fought against this 155 that you have applied; we have solved the problems without these 800_million euros that you have never asked the Spanish State and you owe to the Cos de Mosos d'Esquadra and the Generalitat de Catalunya; we have paid the devices; we have paid the outside hours... We have done everything we could to recover this police thing that was ill-advised by an economic situation and because the workers were not rewarded as calia. While you're disstigating, we'll fix the problems.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.93.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.94.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.95.0	...time is running out. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the management of the accident at the Tarragona chemical plant]] [[317-00168/12]] Let's pass now, once finished the questions to the Government, to the questions to the President of the Generality. The first question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent..., forgiven, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy lord Alejandro Fernández - in change of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.96.0	Thank you, President. After almost a month, and with enough perspective, what assessment does it make of its management after the accident of the Tarragona chemical site on January 15th?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.97.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.98.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. I also imagine, and I want to thank you there, which, according to these questions, you must have already withdrawn your claim for usurpation of functions, right? because they're asking the President of the Generality a question. [[Greetings.]] Look, I'm gonna answer him right now. What I wanted to say to him is that from the first moment we were on the ground, controlling exactly everything that was going on. We created together and we were gathering with all the mayors' collections, with all the entities, etc., a few months of work that have already given fruit. And now I'm going to go on to detail exactly all the measures we're taking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.99.0	In order to answer again, the Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.100.0	Thank you. If you look, I have not named you in the question; I made you Mr. Pere Aragonès [[relays]] , but since he intervenes [[applause]] You, for I will dedicate it to you without any problem. Look, last May 31st, there was already a regrettable accident in Tarragona, unfortunate, with the result of one dead and seven wounded of various consideration. Then it happened, six months later, on the 15th of January. Are you guilty of the two accidents? Obviously not. Are you responsible for civil protection, information and eventual confinement? Yeah. It turns out that on 15 January exactly the same problems were repeated as in May, with the sirens and with civil protection. They had not introduced a single corrective measure. Are you aware of the anguish, abandonment and dismay felt by the Tarragonans during those hours? First you were missing, and then, in order to finish the finishing, Councilman Buch appeared on the scene to reassure us, and he said textually: "You can go out quietly, but we recommend that everyone stay home. It reassured us all, of course. And after saying a sovereign nonsense, yes, he was so proud that he hung it on Twitter. It's just that this is what you've never seen. Good. I already know that you will now answer the usual, the usual during this parliamentary term: that we only have four Members, as if that would excite you from fulfilling your obligations and responsibilities. And, indeed, there you are right, we are only four Members; it will be the only truth that you say in the legislature. I'll tell you another one, and I'm sorry to have to express the rawness with which I will do it, but you leave me no other remedy: you are without a doubt the greatest incompetent who has stepped the Palau de la Generalitat in your entire history. Thank you so much. [[Some applause. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.101.0	Silence... president, whenever you want. [[Pause.]] President... yeah, when he wants to. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.102.0	I'm sorry, I just thought I'd follow. Okay. I will try to focus on your question, and in the first place I must regret – I would only miss –, in the first place, therefore, the death of the three people who lost their lives as a consequence of the accident; to wish, above all, a speedy recovery to all the wounded. They know that there is a judicial investigation on the march, that there have been opened administrative expedients, of which we still do not have the results, but I would want, already, to make a synthesis of all the work that the government has done. In the first place, we have become as accused, given that it is the responsibility of the government to know if all the demands have been fulfilled respect the health and rights of workers and the prevention of occupational risks. Second. We have opened a social dialogue table on prevention and occupational health with the unions and the employers in the sector. We have already celebrated two encounters, regardless of the first one, which we did just after the accident, and all those days, when all the members of the government believe that we were right in the height of the crisis we had, climbing the ground and talking to all our interlocutors. Work inspection has also been set in motion; we will change the management of sirens; we will reopen the debate on the use of sirens that existed until now and will be with the territory that we consider to be at risk and under what risks the sirens will sound – here, indeed, there is this communication issue that we need to resolve – and, finally, we will work for a system of mobile warnings. I think what's important is that we know how to work by listening to the territory, to the same as with the Delta, by listening to the consensus there is in the territory. And if there's a consensus on the territory, adapt it and make us ours. I would also like to say that the Councillor of the Interior has already, on three occasions, presented explanations on this matter and that it is tomorrow creating a committee, precisely in Parliament, on this subject. Mr. President, thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.103.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the repressive actions of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the state of the internal audience announced]] [[317-00173/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.104.0	Good morning, President. More than two-hundred repressive acts starring in the Mossos d'Esquadra rau of the territory. This is the balance of the effective government, the government of restitution. As a result of these repressive actions, to give some examples, there are nine Sabadell CoR activists who are still awaiting trial; forty-two people from different municipalities in the Ebre Lands, who are feeling investigated; there are fifty-two people awaiting trial, also in the Eastern Valley. And president, let's not forget the images of police brutality that we've experienced these last few months. Arrests, identifications, persecution, monitoring and criminalization of the organized people are systemic. President, we're asking you that there's still freedom of speech in this country, the right to protest, the right to protest. Miri, along with the speeches that defense at the level of speech – worth redundancy – this effective government, you have presented yourself as a particular accusation in various proceedings against those that on the 21st of February legitimately exercised their right to vagrancy. They have presented themselves as a particular accusation against those who have exercised their right to protest before the Council of Ministers; also against those who have denounced the imprisonment of prisoners and political pressure to the court, on the 12th of February, and against those whom the 30th generation have denounced the interferences against this Parliament and against this chamber. What happens to Brimo's anti-fouling units and the squadron's Moss ROA? Do they have control over the squadrons? Where's the major audit of the history of the squadron mosses?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.106.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. I ask myself, where is the freedom of speech left in this country? Miri, the Mosso d'Esquadra are the national police of Catalonia and is – and must be – a democratic police, acting with proportional means and under more advanced criteria of any police of the world, such as mediation and interlocution and, above all, the defense of the fundamental rights. This is what is to guide the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. You ask me, therefore, too – it seems to me – how is the whole subject of the audience going from the performance to the consequence of the demonstrations that there was in the country, therefore, protesting for the feelings against our companies. As you know, from different actions that initially went on to investigate, this shifra advanced to thirty-three actions and later added four more actions because Amnesty International requested, precisely, that they be investigated. All these actions, all of them, will be investigated in depth. We want all the demands to be fulfilled, too, with time and guarantees that are needed to make all these procedures and all these analyses, but all these actions must have a concrete result and all the changes that were going on and the responsibilities that were going on will be transferred to this chamber and will be given full transparency to all the Members. From now on, the Interior Advisor will already provide a first precise report on these actions, which are analyzed by two divisions: the Service Evaluation Division and the Internal Affairs Division. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.107.0	To ask the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.108.0	Yes, President, we have already asked you to provide us with this information, to explain to us how many disciplinary envoys have opened, and do you know what the department has answered? That's right, they've opened up dispatchers. So look, this is an insult to people, it's lack of transparency. We want it to be done with the opacity and the climate of impunity that exists in the anti-fouling units of the Squad Mosses.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.109.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.110.0	I answer the xifra: thirty-seven shippers in these moments. In a_me, the advisor will give information, and all transparency, and all the results, because this is our compromise. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.111.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the use of the increase in the deficit target approved by the Tax and Finance Policy Council]] [[317-00171/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.112.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, as you know, the divendres was the meeting of the Fiscal and Finance Policy Council and yesterday the state's Progressive Coalition Government announced the flexibility of the deficit target in two tenths. This means that more resources will come to the Government of the Generality that can be used in the elaboration of assumptions and we want to know what you think the Government has to do with this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.113.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the word the president has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.114.0	Yes, thank you very much, Congresswoman. Actually, he made that decision. You know that we, and by law, demand and believe that we are close to 0.3 and not 0.2, and therefore, in this sense, we would expect from you, that you are in the Government of Spain, so that you allow us to jump from this 0.2 to this 0.3, because you would give us more resources to the country. And he also knows that, unfortunately, in the same meeting he also said that the debt that the State has to return the VAT that it has pending to the Government of Catalonia, that it is 443_million euros, is a debt that..., these 443_millions could also be dedicated to improving the public services of our country. Therefore, we will also maintain the content, to claim these 443_million euros and hope that with this 0.2, that we would want it to be a 0.3, actually, with this point of improvement that of all means that they are more resources than we will profit to do what we have done with the master lines of these assumptions, that it is public services, public services and public services...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.115.0	If you ask me again, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.116.0	Now. Thank you, President. I think we should go to earth. At the moment we have 0.2. I say to him that we, as a parliamentary group, want to return to the negotiating table, because we believe that it is necessary to give a boost to the agreement of assumptions, and I also anticipate that we would like to be able to negotiate with the parties on where and for us it is a priority for children, dependence, habitat and culture, which are the areas that are even leaner and need more reinforcement. We are also aware that the margin we have will not be the panacea, among other things because there is one thing that is said "rule of expenditure," which the People's Party pulled forward with the support of Convergence and Union. As I say, we are very aware of the limitations that exist, that we must continue to fight for the reform of the financial system, and that the State must pay the debt that it has with Catalonia in matters as sensitive as dependence, as infrastructure, or as Mossos. But now we have a few million more than we need to see, and that's why we don't want you to go back to being the austere students, we want to be a sister to see how we give a boost to this assumption. I on the subject of VAT. You have regretted that at that meeting there was no mention of the return. Do you know where he was talking about the return and he was already contemplating it? To the Project of Presuppositions of 2019, the one that Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia fell, an agreement of presuppositions, certainly, that contained more 2,200_million euros for Catalonia. And so, I'm honestly asking you not to do the same thing again with the state's own assumptions. And finally, president, we ask you again to announce the election date as soon as possible. As you yourself said, assumptions and choices, in your own words: the legislature no longer had recourse and was at its end. Therefore, I believe that for the sake of the country, Catalonia needs to end this uncertainty, this lack of effectiveness, and it needs change. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.117.0	To answer again, the president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.118.0	Yes, I would also like to celebrate, in any case, this transversal agreement that has allowed us to arrive today to begin processing the assumptions. In fact, the meeting that I held with Mayor Colau in July, in which we already talked about the compromise to replace us to negotiate the assumptions, both of the Barcelona Assembly and of the Generality of Catalonia, I am pleased that it has ended fruitfully because we need these assumptions. It is an absolutely necessary tool of country, because the country needs it, because our people need it. Presumed that they will never be the assumptions that we want, they will not be until we have the assumptions of an independent country, therefore, when we are done with the unbearable fiscal deficit and with all the incompliments and hardships of the State. Now, certainly, by responsibility, by consistency, by sense of country, we have prioritized, therefore, before we give this legislature, approve these assumptions. And that's what... and that's what we're gonna do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.119.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the lines of action envisaged for the full recovery of the Ebro Delta and the other measures to deal with the consequences of the temporary Gloria]] [[317-00166/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.120.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Very honorable President of the Generalitat, the refranys tell the truth, and, certainly, we only remember Santa Barbara when he thrones. And the temporary recently Gloria has put us on the table some shortcomings in the management of the territory. I wanted to ask him, concretely, about the Ebre Delta. I took the pleasure of agreeing with you at a meeting, held in Sant Jaume d'Enveja, where the Delta Consensus Table presented a follow-up of consensual measures for the territory that address three very concrete objectives: reducing vulnerability and risk to people, protecting economic activities and potentially affected economic benefits, and protecting and restoring the integrity of threatened environmental systems. Certainly, the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain are deploying emergency measures, but, as is said in Sant Jaume d'Enveja, we must have a global plan, comprehensive in short, medium and long term. I think it's very important that there is a government commitment, and in this sense, I wanted to ask him who are the lines of action planned for the full recovery of the Delta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.121.0	To answer the word the president has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.122.0	Yes, thank you. Mr. Deputy, indeed, we coincided that evening with Sant Jaume d'Enveja. I had already gone a couple of days to see the effects of this terrible and devastating time in the Delta. And I think it was a very, very positive meeting, very positive for the work that had been done before. It is to say, when the territory is able, with all its complexity and all its transversality, to arrive at consensus as it is now in the delta with the table of consent of the mayors of the delta, and also of the communities of rulers of the right and left margin of the Ebra, so, quite simply, what they have to do is give it all the support with all our strength. That's what I said that day, we keep it. We're at the side of the delta people, we're at the side of the consensus table, and for the government, we won't have to do everything that's in our hands and our skills so we can pull it out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.123.0	Thank you. To answer the question you have for the paragraph the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.124.0	Yes, President, I agree with you in the appreciation of what happened to Sant Jaume d'Enveja and, indeed, as the culmination of a piece of work from the territories. But I think we need to go one step further, in the sense of realising and defining the country's institutions' commitment to that plan. I do not know if you would be willing to consider that we are, between the parliamentary groups and the Government, an effort to undertake and fully assume the compromise that will be presented to Sant Jaume d'Enveja. I would also like to know how far he will work together with the Government of Spain, which is also preparing a proposal in this regard. I remember that you committed – precisely to Sant Jaume d'Enveja – to talk to the President of the Government of Spain, with the motivation of his visit to Barcelona, and I don't know if he did. And in the third place, President, I believe I would be convinced that this compromise that you have expressed – and on which we have no right to doubt – you have an explicit compromise in the handling of the assumptions of guany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.126.0	Yes, I've given him some of the fears that you've been demeaning me. Yes, we actually had an opportunity to talk about this issue with President Sánchez – I had publicly agreed on it – and it was one of the issues that we committed ourselves to, and I am sure that the Bilateral State-General Commission, which is where all these management issues are to be dealt with and which do not refer to the political conflict in Catalonia, so we will have an opportunity to talk to it. We have committed ourselves to the Delta Consensus Table. Ports of the Generality will last to term works of emergence for total value of 7_million euros in six Catalan ports, which have suffered more damage. We already have compromises, since the council, 11_million euros in aid to deal with the damages agrarians and temporal fisheries – thanks, councillor. And this week, just yesterday, we approved, in the Executive Board, also to allocate almost 2 million euros in repairs of three lanes. They are now urgent first steps, which we have set in motion. And it is, indeed, Glory in all its extension, because it is in the Delta where we have had this natural catastrophe and it has made us realize the immense import of this country and that without the Delta it would not be Catalonia, and therefore we need to take this country's response in an absolutely decisive way, but it is certain that it has followed the whole country, the affected also for this time, and therefore we need to give this country's response. About the Delta seems to me a lot of opportunity as well as what you say. We will work with all the administrations and demand from all the administrations those compliments that there is no way to complete and that know perfectly well the problems we have with the CHE, the sediment problems, the problems that, by the way, they realize that the Ebra up to the Mediterranean. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.127.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the dialogue with the Government of the State and the need for a joint strategy with shared objectives]] [[317-00167/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.128.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies. No guarantee. We don't have any guarantee that I'm okay. But we have to move the file. If we want different results, we have to do different things, take advantage of all the small ones that follow. And assure them, forcing them to talk, forcing them to dialogue with those with whom they have never wanted to dialogue more confidently that it is an opportunity. And for that reason, we, the president, must persist and we will persist in the idea of the dialect, without excuses. Excuses that, while it seems consistent, they seem to store the intention of wanting to make it impossible. Because it's going to take another vote, and we don't throw it out of the way to do it. And we'll work through the options to do it again. Back and back until we vote and win. And we, as a parliamentary group, are convinced that the government – the whole government, with you and the vice president in the lead – will take advantage of the opportunity to talk to you, and to look to make those who have wanted to tarnish us. We have to tell them in high view and to the face that this country has the right to self-determination. And now that we've forced the State to its sister, we can't give her our frailties, no toilets, no doubt. And we have to do it together, because together we are stronger. And we still have time to build a joint strategy. Do it. Even elections can't be an excuse. Left Republican defends it from long ago, and we won't get tired of saying it: let's get out of the fights, let's not call ourselves into star debates and let this country advance. Proper toilets among us; go and stop dividing. We're life partners. There is, however, nothing in this Parliament that they would shudder to see. And no, President. We need to be strong and working together. The only way out for this country is to find a collective solution to the political conflict we have with the State. And we're just like the votes at stake. We are willing to take on the wear; we take it because we are here to give an answer to the citizens of this country. That's what I'm saying. It's time to look long, to coordinate, to summarise strategies from different spaces, because that makes us stronger. Stronger at the time of facing the dialog and at the time of achieving the goal, that is independence. And I'd like to think – and I'm not sure – President, that this is a shared goal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.129.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.130.0	Yes, Congressman, thank you very much. We face this process of negotiation with the State under clear principles. First, that of responsibility; second, that of the unity force and that of respect for decisions taken by this Parliament, which seems to us to be precisely where is the political message of the citizenry, right? ; as representatives of the city send us a message and a mandate. These are the two strong ideas with which we have to approach this dialog process. But the dialog itself – the dialog itself – did not hear. The dialog has heard if it has an object, if it fits into a method. If not, we could get to the point of trivializing the dialog. Therefore, we need methods, we need objectives, we need guarantees because this dialog can be and can produce fruits. And to me, more than by dialogue – as a result of the difficult political conflict between Catalonia and Spain – I like to talk more about the negotiation process. And, therefore, just yesterday in the Executive Board we established very clearly the rules of the game. And in this sense I can convey this consensus that exists in the government very clearly: a negotiating table to address the political conflict, the plot of the political conflict, which is sovereign, which is the right to self-determination in Catalonia and which is the focus of repression. And, therefore, from two points of view, amnesty but also the end of judicialization, of all cases of judicialization. And, for another band, a bilateral State-General Commission that deals with all the other management issues. That it's not important to finance? Very much. That the Mediterranean Corridor is not important? Very much. But they will be dealt with at the table of the State-General Commission, because it is not the plot of the political conflict that exists at these times between Catalonia and Spain. And in that we had an absolute consensus in the government. And precisely because of this, we have already instructed the Foreign and International Relations Council to draw up the order of the day of the meeting of the Bilateral State-General Commission with, if I may, the forty-four proposals made by Pedro Sánchez, as at least forty must go into that table, because they do not refer to what is the heart of the conflict, which, I insist, is a subject of democracy, of phonenal rights and of sovereignty. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.131.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the dialogue and negotiation to resolve the political conflict with the State and the need for the figure of a mediator in the negotiation table]] [[317-00170/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President of the Generalitat, Mr Quim Torra, cannot begin this intervention without noting and regret that, for the first time in the history of the Parliament of Catalonia, it is a monitoring session in which he is not considered to be the President of the Generalitat and does not allow himself to vote. President, we want to express to you the support of our parliamentary group and we want to thank you for your sense of state to face this new situation, putting the country ahead of personal and party interests. Two years ago, Mr. Pedro Sánchez was a necessary and indispensable accomplice of Mr. Mariano Rajoy to apply 155 to Catalonia. One year ago, Mr. Pedro Sánchez rose from the table of the negotiation for electoral interests, when Mr.Iceta and Mrs. Calvo already accepted the figure of the rapporteur. And now, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, with his constant changes of opinion, says he wants to resume the path of the dialogue, although we all know that he does it more because he wants to. During this time, from Junts to Catalonia, we held the flag of the dialog and the negotiation. To resolve the political conflict with the State, it is a political solution. The conjunction of the country and the Catalans and the Catalans want a solution and the solution is the recognition of the right of self-determination, as you well said now, Mr President. He won't stay for us; we're ready. When it comes to dialogue and political negotiation, Junts for Catalonia always exist and always be there. That is why, President, we thank him for his responsibility to explore the possibilities of negotiation. It's a gesture that shows his honesty and his heart. Together for Catalonia, as the Parliament approved last week, we consider the independent mediator to be instrumental. The motive is understandable: let us distrust the Spanish State. Neither do they complete the given word, nor abandon the authoritarian drift, repressed hundreds of Catalans and Catalans, imprisoned, exiled and persecuted, and a long list of incompliments and hardships that the different Spanish governments for years and years... If President Montilla in 2007 was already talking about disaffection, what can we talk about now? Mr. President, with the face of this will...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.133.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.134.0	Yes, Mr. Deputy. As I was also commenting on Deputy Sabrià, very clear principles to address this scene in which we find ourselves. He had already spoken of responsibility, he had spoken of unit strength and respect for Parliament. I think we also have to pose for the world of the whole sense of country. I like to talk in these terms and forget us..., I have more luck, or not, but in any case I don't militate in any political party and, therefore, I always prioritize what it is that at any time can be the best for the country. Not paralyzed by repression – not paralyzed by repression – nor bend before any threat that can bring us to the State, and above all respect for popular will. This is the key back from all fold: respect for popular will. Therefore, he respects the decisions taken by the citizenry, and that taken by the citizenry – if I may too – through his legitimate representatives, which is the Parliament of Catalonia. I, at the meeting with Mr. Pedro Sánchez, tried to explain to him the value of the institutions. This week I thought that, precisely, having this meeting at the Palau de la Generalitat could serve, it's a scenario that just invites us to explain where we're coming from and where we're going to get to, right? Like yours in this Parliament, just like yours in this Parliament. And this Parliament, therefore, takes decisions that for me are mandates, as the President of the Government. And he took, a few months ago, to push for a national agreement that you sought... on the exercise of the right to self-determination, as quickly as possible, and amnesty, therefore, an assignment to the government. And that this agreement was ratified just last week, the said passed, for a resolution. As it is also demanded that, in these negotiations, the figure of an international mediator has been included – item 4 of the resolution. It's not Mr. Torra, it's not the President of the Generality asking for a mediator, it's the Parliament of Catalonia, it's the majority of the Parliament of Catalonia that has asked for an international mediator. This is the key to the whole fold. Because..., and he posed: because he needed..., for the past, for the guarantees and for the visibility and effectiveness. Therefore, I will convey this need that there be an international mediator. And, if not, it will be the Parliament of Catalonia that will have to decide what we are doing, if there is no such international mediator. Because, I insist, where there is the popular will, where citizenship is expressed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.135.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.136.0	...is in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.137.0	The later asks the formula... [[Ask the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the consequences of the loss of the condition of deputy of the President of the Generalitat]] [[317-00165/12]] ...on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.138.0	Yeah, a preview. Stop, at once, dividing and stigmatizing Catalans according to the language in which they speak. We're all just like Catalans. That's enough. That's all right. (Applause.) Look, certainly, what we are living in this Parliament today is an anomaly, and some may not be surprised, because it is not the first, but it is one of the most serious. Mr Torra, you have not been a Member of this Parliament for weeks and yet here we have you sitting in the front row as if nothing had happened at all. But it does happen, and as much as you try to simulate something else, reality always ends up imposing itself. And confirmations have already arrived from all the bodies: the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has told it, the electoral board has told it, the Supreme Court has also told it, and even the Bureau of Parliament has told it. Look, Mr Torra, you have lost your credentials as a Member of this Parliament and no, this has not been the result of malicious persecution for your independence, as you want us to believe. No, no, this has been the result of their irresponsibility, their eagerness to give a pulse to the rule of law, to ignore the electoral law and not to respect the neutrality of the buildings that are of all. And that has, of course, had consequences that you already knew beforehand. You knew perfectly well that your disobedience would bring you to trial and, in it, is that you also pleaded guilty, is that you, on top, Mr. Torra, had the defiance to take breasts out. You guys, what's going on... you've been acting with total impunity for so long, you thought nothing was going to happen to him, didn't you, Mr. Torra? You have made the same mistake as your predecessors. And the problem of everything is that you don't learn, and you persist in this error, and now you intend to entangle yourself here in a position that no longer corresponds to you. So from here I want to announce that today we are going to file an application for amparo with the Constitutional Court, because you here today are depriving us of our rights to Members of the opposition. I don't know how you guys always get through martyrs, but the harmed are always the others. Wednesdays what we do here are questions to the President of the Generalitat, and you, Mr. Torra, are no longer. Look, like the one who takes out the driver's license and loses all points when committing traffic violations, you don't have any points left in the president's license anymore. You..., your passage through the Generalitat has always been with reckless conduct, bordering legality, until in the end you skipped it. He doesn't have any points in his presidential card, he can't keep driving the Generalitat. Take it and I know it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.139.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.140.0	There's a time when you don't know what to say either, honestly. Nor is it that you have had an overly affectionate treatment or respect for my person or the President of Catalonia, is it not? But I'm still surprised that the first ones who presented a question for..., a question to the President of the Generalitat was you, when it was already assumed that I was no longer a member of the Chamber. I mean, in your world maybe Matrix, where you see them, so, also a point of coherence, I would also like them. We have seen once more his way of doing politics, this degradation of political doing, his style of sham... No, no, they can already be admonished at the sum of this, constitutional or I don't know what, with the People's Party, because I must have wished them: from all this parliamentary group, therefore, if they are left with half a dozen it will be very much. And this is his arrival; what do I want him to say to them? What have you achieved with this policy? What did they get? That Vox replaces them– first point–; they have opened the door to fascism, which has entered through all the doors... We have four Turins in the Spanish State– four Turins. Do you know what Chancellor Merkel did when her parents agreed to the extreme right? He made the Prime Minister resign. [[Greetings.]] Do you know how many autonomous communities govern thanks to the pacts of Ciutadans, Vox and PP? Four autonomous communities of Espanya. That's what you guys are, that's what you... [[The applause continues.]] And here there is a very wide front – here there is a very wide front. And to all the Members who see, in this ascent of fascism, that they must fight against it, here the most extensive, here all that they want because this health cord against fascism, as Germany has shown, must be brought to practice, and, therefore, more extensive here. I'm sorry about your attitude and I'm sorry about your politics. It's that, honestly... and I'm leaving it here, because I don't know what else to answer about a question I didn't have any sense. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.141.0	After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and voting of the papers to the totality of the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2020. [[Project of the Law of Presuppositions of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2020 (issues to the totality)]] [[200-00011/12]] The debate and voting of the items to the totality will be substantiated in accordance with the establishment of Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. First of all, however, and on the basis of Rule 85.6 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the General Council has asked to intervene in relation to the parliamentary initiative under discussion. This intervention, obviously, generates a round of words for what it does to parliamentary groups and subgroups, for the time proportional to the learner for the president on this first round. So, president, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.142.0	Very good morning to all of you again. President, Members and Members, I take the word, in agreement with Vice-President Aragonès, to make clear the importance for my Government of the approval of this assumption for the year 2020. It is about a year, on February 27, 2019, the comparison before this chamber to inform you about the state of elaboration of the Advance Bill of Generality assumptions for the year 2019. Then, as of today, I was accompanied by the vice president and economic advisor, who is close to the responsibility of drawing up assumptions every year. He said, passing on that appearance, that we appeared with a sense of responsibility, transparency and dialogue. At that moment we didn't re-exist. One year later, we're on condition that we can deal with these assumptions, and I'm celebrating it. Allow me, therefore, with these brief words, to thank everyone who has participated and made it possible: all your teams, advisers and advisers, especially the Vice-President and Economic Adviser and all the members of their department, but also the Members you have collaborated with and the Groups you have participated in the negotiation. The decision to approve the Advance Bill of Presuppositions before launching a new electoral contest also obeys this conviction that the country cannot be longer without updated presuppositions, with more resources. I'd say it before the turn of questions: we need it. I need the agencies and entities that manage people's services, I need the companies that need investment and support from the Administration, I need the pages and the autonomies, I need the people who want to create their life project there, from the country's end, but they need maybe to get the optical fiber. It does, in short, require everyone, without exception, and I hope that by responsibility they agree with me that I could not let this opportunity pass. Today will be the beginning of the debate of assumptions with the theme "A country of shared prosperity, that is, prosperity for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans. The vice president will go into detail at the length of his intervention, but the first one to say is that they are not – and can never be – until we remain independent – the assumptions we want. The unbearable tax deficit of 15,000_million euros per year is a huge long-term and the difficult and incompliments of the State, which are kept a year ago, a fraud to the competitiveness, talent and well-being of our country. But they are assumptions that increase current expenditure by EUR 2,135 million compared to 2010 and that place the departmental expenditure pool at the highest value of the last two years. Presumables oriented towards building the model of country we want, through the fulfilment of the objectives of sustainable development of the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations, the follow-up of indicators of welfare and social progress, and with the focus placed on childhood and gender equality. And finally, also, some assumptions made, as has been claimed here, with a long look: for the first time, it complements with a planning in several years' time that we must allow us to predict and correct future imbalances. Also, allow me, briefly, to make a note of the situation in which the country's economy is found. We have closed the 2019 exercise with some results that, from the prudence, continue to be positive and far from the apocalyptic visions that some have prophesied, perhaps with known interests, these later months. We hold the year with a GDP growth of 2_percent that allows us to continue chaining years of consequent growth: six years of output grow over 2_percent and over, much from the middle of the European Union countries. We are closing 2019 with more divided_thousand businesses created, a 3_per_cent more than the previous year, while in Spain this indicator has fallen 1.6 points. We're holding the year at a rate of 10.4_per_cent, the lowest since the third quarter of 2008. That's what I'm saying. And we're 3.4 points under the Spanish state's skyline. For what it does to exports, we plan to close the year with growths for nine years as a result. And, respecting the tourism that you visit, while it has increased very slightly, the average spending has increased by 3.3_per_cent, and the average daily, by 6.3_per_cent, since it re-places 2019 as the first state destination of foreign tourists. But we cannot lower the guard, and that is why these assumptions are aimed at reducing inequalities, at promoting the productive economy, at strengthening the quality of public services by increasing their expenditure, and, as it cannot otherwise be, at tackling the global challenges that, with any other country, threaten us. On that occasion, a year ago, and in successive appearances I made on the plan of government and as we went forward, I used to always put certain titles under which include some figures. They will allow me, as a headline, to end this exposure with these data. We want to continue to move forward with a country that is alive, with communities full of life and opportunities for everyone, looking for territorial balance and sustainability. And, therefore, there will be more than EUR 420 million in investments in line with the above assumptions, to reach EUR 2,000 million, of which EUR 45 million will lead to the deployment of the public optical fibre network. This 2020 we will connect all the capitals of the region and municipalities and polygons in its step, and begin the deployment to all the municipalities with more than fifty inhabitants. Also EUR 47_million for the improvement of the agricultural sector, rowing and fishing. That's why he's referring to the country he lives for, and the vice president will go into much more detail. On the second concept, a prepared country, which allows you to situate Catalonia as a pole of knowledge, formation, innovation and leadership in the technological change for the better of living conditions. More than €1,000_million in university education policies and student aid scholarships, €857_million in education, €38_million in culture, which already sets us at 2011 levels. It's not where we want to get there; but that's why this long-term look allows us to get past that 2_per_cent dedicated to culture that's our ultimate goal. Third idea: we are a global country that wants to see its own in the debate and in the face of the world, because it is the responsibility of all to improve the conditions of the planet. And we are proud to devote, therefore, EUR 226_million to environmental policies, for example, or 10_percent more resources than in 2017 to sustainable mobility, or EUR 18_million in internationalization policies, promotion and promotion of foreign trade. Fourth idea, penultimate: we want a country just, because there is equal opportunity, with public services of quality. And this goes unexcusably to give even more support to the public health system, with more than 900_million euros, posing, as the Councillor said, emphasis on primary care, and more than 1,400 health professionals compared to 2017. We are also concerned, as always, about the person and the autonomy of the people, and, therefore, we will devote 1,500_million euros to policies of promotion of personal autonomy, an increase of almost 100_million euros respect the previous assumptions. And it will increase the Generality's staff with twenty-thousand new additions to strengthen public services: health, education, security, emergencies. And, finally, we want a country of equality and equity, with the objective that no one is left behind in the ability to push forward his life plan in Catalonia, increasing the parties of guaranteed citizenship income, devoting more resources to housing policies and ancient nuclei. Presumables that continue to reactivate the country, after the substrac that represented Article 155, and that recover the levels of spending from two years ago. I'm done. Our Republican project wants to equip us with the tools of a state, manage our resources and direct them to public services, prosperity, welfare and the culture we want. As we move on this line we must not fail to claim justice, democratic hope and, above all, compliment of the dues..., of the debts and of the commitments we have pending. And that's why on the days they're going to sell them to everyone and to all responsibility and sense of the country. Let's start, then, today, with the processing of these assumptions that are so necessary for our people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.143.0	Thank you, President. So, as I said earlier, those parliamentary groups that are in a position to do so have a two-minute turn of intervention. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan? When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.144.0	Yes; thank you, President. Good morning. The truth is that we come here, Mr Torra, because not to talk to you, that I think it has become quite clear that you are neither a Member nor a President, but what we cannot consent to is that millions of Catalans remain here without a voice. And that's why we have the duty and responsibility to come here and talk for them. Because, if we have to wait for you to do it, those Catalans have it pretty badly. Look, let them come here now to get their breasts out of these budgets, after we have three years of extended budgets, after again, for the umpteenth time – that we have lost count already – they bring them out of time, so... what do you want me to tell you? And it's also that, if we look at these budgets, they're not for medals either, Mr. Torra. I already know that talking about budgets and numbers, well, it seems very, very cold; but behind those numbers there are people. And these budgets, gentlemen of the Government, leave people helpless. And it's very sad to have people who are working but still don't get to the end of the month. Why? Because they have a government that does not care about their problems, but is more interested simply in their privileges and in, as you have made it quite clear, asking for impunity, which is all they are interested in. But it is not only the people who work: behind these numbers there are also children. Nor do these budgets respond to the high rate of child poverty we are living in Catalonia. Nor do they respond, for example, to the problems of investment in children, which is below the Spanish average and to the light years of the European one. So it doesn't make any sense for you to come here and get your chest out of these budgets. Do you know that here in Catalonia we have the highest percentage of dependents who have their approved dependency help, but yet do not charge it? It's just that these budgets leave so much to be desired, so much to be left... There are many subjects that you have pending, and instead of making budgets that worry about these problems, instead of trying to take out the money, for example, for example, by pursuing tax fraud; for example, by eliminating administrative duplicity, by eliminating those chiringuitos that you have created, by eliminating those customer networks that have been cultivating here in Catalonia for years, no, they do not. You do not solve the enormous shortcomings that we have here in Catalonia, because again what concerns you is simply yours. That you come here today to ask for responsibility, if not..., seems to us a joke of bad taste, Mr. Torra. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.145.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. If any group wants to use this turn of intervention... [[Pause.]] Don't you? So we'll give the word to the vice president, Mr. Pere Aragonès, because you're presenting the Project's assumptions for the 2020 fiscal year. When you say so, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.146.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Many honorable President of the Generalitat, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies... The year 2018, which is the last year on which we have a closed statistics, were born to Catalonia 63,566 children and children. This is not a presuppositional departure, but it explains the ultimate meaning of the decisions that lead us to make politics, of the decisions that we make in this Parliament. Because each of the decisions we make in this chamber have an impact, especially with a law like the law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia that assigns to each of the areas of expenditure of the Generality which are the resources that it has available. 63,566 babies and children. From 2019 the Institute of Statistics has not yet made public the data, but surely we would be with a similar xifra. Children and children who have been born alike, who have been born, therefore, all in the same way, but in different barrels, in different families, as is our country. All of them, at birth – and this is a concept that we should be guided by the policy we do every day in this Parliament – deserve the same opportunities for their future. Everyone deserves a society that brings them the equality of opportunity that today, despite the efforts we make all folds, is still not possible. Today, the future of these 63,000 infants who were born in 2018 – that we will have a similar xifra in 2019 and 2020 –, unfortunately, will still be determined by what is the economic level of their peers, by the bar where they were born and raised, and also by themselves they are neither child nor child. Today there are still too many glass braids that condition the creatures they need today. The economic level of families determines in excess the possibilities to study, to find work, to have health and good nutrition, and to grow in a welcoming social environment. The ultimate feeling of what we do in Parliament, despite the fact that it seems that the day to day so claimed does not matter to any of the five Members of this House, after repeatedly demanding the assumptions... – and that is why I regret that they are abstaining from this debate, abstaining from this debate – the ultimate feeling of what we do politically, the ultimate feeling of politics is to take the right decisions, because, regardless of the ideology we have, all the children who today do not have Catalonia have the same opportunities. Because they deserve to hold them, they deserve to grow and breathe on a habitable planet, they deserve to see their opinions wrapped up with dignity, they deserve a country that can freely decide its future, they deserve a society that overthrows patriarchy still present in decisions, in the economy and in personal relationships. They deserve a society that is strong enough to overcome the economic inequalities that the capitalist system generates, and they deserve a democracy of quality. And that's why we're political. To improve our society, to transform it, to draw a future of opportunity; not for the short dribble of party or electoral miseries, nor the easy holder, nor the banner or slogan that we often see in this Faristol, and that, when the resources that go to the city of Catalonia are debated, some fans mutated for the stage, as we have just seen. To build, in short, a future that is worth it. In each of the decisions we take as representatives of the citizenry that has entrusted to us the management of the present and the preparation of the future, we should evaluate whether the position..., if the vote we make in this chamber helps to advance in the solutions or to perpetuate the problems; if it allows us to take a step forward, in small and modest terms, or keep us in the comfort of whom it does not assume contradictions but which is also renouncing to transform reality. And that's why we're presenting the assumptions today, to build a better country. Because all over legitimate electoral ambitions, we continue to build and not to give up today's day of making a fairer present and a much better future. It's been three years since this Parliament saw a bill of approved assumptions come in. A assumption that at that time was approved with a strong social commitment and with an unprecedented expenditure in the key areas of the welfare state. Some of you will remember that the approval of those assumptions was not easy. Vice President Junqueras also dedicated time and effort to get the 2017 accounts to move forward. Time and effort at the service of the dialect, of the negotiation, of the agreements, to arrive at these agreements that benefit the conjunction of the city of Catalonia. This is Vice President Junqueras' compromise, and obviously it's ours, too. From now on, the Government of the Government of Catalonia has been working on an extended assumption, that of 2017. Today is 2020. Therefore, I do not respond to the current situation, the presupposition of 2017, to the realities that have emerged from the Catalan society itself or to the new needs of the citizenry. The extension of 2017's assumptions is also explained by the exceptional situation that we have experienced in this country for a long time, that, if we set a date, we could say that from September 20, 2017, we are experiencing a situation of permanent exceptionality. No one can say this isn't like that. Yesterday, in a debate, someone said that during 2019 nothing had happened that had prevented a normal debate of assumptions, ignoring two general elections celebrated because of the blockade of the Government of the State to resolve and deal with the political conflict in Catalonia; a sentence, of October 14, 2019, which condemns a hundred years of imprisonment for our companies and companies. Therefore, obviously we are in an exceptional situation, and this also influences the decisions we make in this Parliament, and in the most important decision, apart from the investiture of the President of the Generality, which is the approval of the assumptions of the previous year. We've all lived it, this exceptionality. We lived it, as I said, on September 20, but also those that the dawn of the U of October we were working to guarantee the right to vote, or those that we also planted to a_metre of a National Police willing to charge against friends and family who only wanted to vote on the future politics of Catalonia. And also from many other perspectives, cadascú from his: exercise democracy the U of October, repression, enterprise, exile and blockade. That's why we live in an exceptional situation that we have to overcome, and that we have opportunities to overcome it. With one hand, democratic solution, for the reference, to exercise the right to self-determination and, with the other, to work, to fight the dignity of the day by day with policies in favor of the people. And that's what we're doing now and here with these assumptions. Thanks to a more favourable economic environment and a rigorous management of public finances, today the Generality is in a position to leave behind the scene where government action is basically devoted to putting pieces before emergencies, focusing on promoting an economic recovery to put austerity on hold and moving to a new scene. We've managed, with the assumption of the past years, good results, it's true. But it's also true that we've done it without having all the tools, all the tools to get the outflow of the crisis to all the islands of Catalonia. I have heard myself say other times: the management of the crisis, determined basically also from the community institutions, was not innocent; it entailed a wage devaluation and a precariousness in the world of work even more intense than we had known before, and also the application of austerity policies that limited the ability of the welfare state to respond at the time when the city needed it the most. But today the Catalan economy chained six years of positive dynamics. We have a more balanced pattern of growth – all sectors contribute to the growth of the economy – more resilient and, therefore, much more prepared to face difficulties than we had in other expansion periods. It has not been easy, and often this effort of the Generality, mass, mass, has not been accompanied by the support of a state which, in the margin of perpetuating the fiscal deficit and the lack of investments, has been scrupulously demanding the objectives of deficit at the gatherings, and to governments like that of the Generality of Catalonia, while they have reserved wide manica to continue in debt without taking decisions and leaving the state of welfare in the bad weather. And I want to emphasize this: after years of imposed austerity and extended assumptions, which did not allow us to put the full potential of resources on the citizen's service, we open a new stage with a very good assumption, able to update public services, to advance the welfare state and to strengthen the knowledge economy. And we said, this is not a government assumption. It's a country assumption, because it went far beyond political formations... the agreement, political formations that we support the government. There has been a cross-cutting agreement and, therefore, I would like to thank the predisposition to dialogue and negotiation for those who have prioritized the interests of citizens over their legitimate electoral interests. To all of them, to the companies of the Government of Catalonia, encapsulated for the president, to the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Republican Esquerra and to the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, I would like to thank them for their commitment to this assumption. We have all superimposed ourselves on differences, moving for the will to improve the living conditions of the citizenry and that makes us strong as the country. The ability to come to terms with those you disagree with. Let's learn from it, because this is the way we need to overcome many of the difficulties we face today. Because in order to move forward, it is essential to reach an agreement, and it does not advance alone, it advances collectively, the joint of the country. That's the only way we can handle freedom. [[Greetings.]] The assumption, therefore, is the sum of a plurality of points of view, opinions, positions and proposals. And I'm convinced that if all of us folded together, during today's and this presuppositionary march, to clear the electoral context and dared to get out of the comfort zone that gives us absolute coherence but not transform re, if we roll out of this comfort zone, we can extend the range of supports to the wider parliamentary march, and that there are still much better assumptions. Because I am convinced that neither the Party of Socialists of Catalonia nor, especially, the Candidature of Popular Unity is so far from a premise that it devotes three_of_every_four euros to social policies. We are there again, as forces that recognize themselves from the left, because on other occasions they have also approved assumptions that neither from the moon nor the figures presented by this assumption. He said, therefore, that it is a country assumption, and that we need a presumption to bring up to date public services to advance the state of welfare and to project us towards the future. In the later years, we have limited ourselves to recovering current expenditure, in day-to-day management, trying to save the master pairs of the welfare state before an unprecedented economic crisis. It has cost a lot and a lot, and with a lot of huge social costs that are still being maintained today. But, today, let us make it clear, let us leave behind the decade of austerity, let us begin a new stage of progress, of optimism, of confidence in a future that we must build together, which we can only build together. And here I would like to stop, because these assumptions are also this: face the need to raise the head to start designing, to start deciding how we want the Catalan society to be found these children and children who don't even know when they start, so go to battling, when they start their professional formation, as the future of this Catalan society will be 15 or 20 years ago, as we want Catalonia to be at the social and economic level of the next decade, the Catalonia of 2030. I think a lot of us are clear; I'm clear, and a lot of you are, too. The Catalonia of 2030, above all, must be a cohesive country, a socially strong country, where there is no one left behind, where social, gender or territorial inequalities remain questions of the past, which guarantees equity and equal opportunities. That Catalonia is this country strong and cohesive also passes in good part for the decisions that we are taking today, to make this bet unequivocal for the state of welfare. Because it's true that macro-economically we've been out of the crisis for a long time, but it's also been too long since the crisis continues in many of them. It is necessary to invest in welfare, for social justice, obviously, but also because it is the best reversal of the future. And I'll give you an example of this assumption. The best way to reduce current inequalities is a clear bet for education. Today's children are the young people who will have to throw in front of the country by 2030, and that is why we make an unequivocal bet for the strengthening of the education system. It's the highest education assumption in history. Because we are convinced that investing in education is investing in the future. And we're talking about all the trams: zero-three education, inclusive school, groceries, eradicating bad names, barracks, calling for objections, dual vocational training, reducing university fees. Many years ago I read an interview with a master of the Republic, of those who make us proud of that stage of splendor and the recovery of freedom, and said that the best way to get to a fair society was to educate everyone. And that's what we do on this premise. With many challenges still, still with many objectives that we have to settle down, absolutely, because these assumptions are not perfect – and then I will already enter into the imperfections they have – but it is a premise that allows us to move forward. We want the 2030 Catalonia to be cohesive, socially strong, but in order to be, it has to be. We have a capitalist system that has demonstrated excellence in the generation of economic growth, but that has also demonstrated excellence in the generation of inequalities, of not sharing this growth, if there is no public intervention determined for redistribution and also for predisposition. And, therefore, the Catalonia of 2030, if we want it to be cohesive, must be a Catalonia with a dynamic economy, solid and open to the world. Because the presuppositional decisions we take today must also go towards building this Catalonia of shared prosperity. Our proposal passes because the main source of growth follows knowledge, innovation and research, with this idea of being entrepreneurial. It is true that this initiative is more modest than we would like, that the recovery of investments only supposes an increment of 419_million euros compared to 2017, but that we are going to exceed, again, 2,000_million euros of investments. And we did it, unlike 2010, with a presuppositionary and sustainability that starts with a zero deficit commitment, which I'm going to get in. But with this new premise we also make a clear direction, a clear will: the Generality must be the engine of dynamism of the productive economy and knowledge, a knowledge of the service of economic growth that serves to improve the daily life of the city council. In practical terms, this translates into investments in the presupposition as for example in MareNostrum 5, in the Iriscat alliance, in the Alba synchro, in the deployment of the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge, in the improvement of the funding of universities, in the deployment of the optical fiber of the country. These are some examples of this entrepreneurial idea. But we also have other instruments. The Catalan Institute of Finance, which acts as an authentic public bank for economic promotion, plans to formalise at the length of this year 645_million euros of operations, of which 430 will go to loan, 180 downsides and 35 to venture capital investments. A Catalonia, therefore, cohesive, early. And it's an approximation of how we wanted this Catalonia to be in 2030. And the third pot. A Catalonia that must also be sustainable and strongly compromised in the fight against climate emergency, is inevitable, and will cause us to change our ways of producing, distributing, consuming and living. But we have to face it. We have come to such a limit that the whole projection of the future will be in vain if it is not accompanied by a strong compromise against the climate change. Because either we take it seriously, assuming the costs it generates, or there's no future that's worth it. Mass decades letting the alarm critters pass, now it's time to recover the lost time. Therefore, we make a clear bet for green taxation, to tax, to get more paid for who pollutes the most, because the lack of compromises of those who pollute the most enrich the more we end up paying for it among all, and especially the children who today cannot vote, but who will get back the consequences of this climate change every time more intense. It's a generational deure. Many times, when debate about public debt, neoliberal positions end up saying that we are compromising our own generations. And what has happened, if not, with the resignation to combat climate change for these very neoliberal positions? Compromise and leave a climate debt to the next generation that will generate more inequality if we don't get ahead of the same. Therefore, our horizon must be zero emissions and residue, and this is one of the objectives of this assumption. And this is why we are going to recapitulate the carbon dioxide emissions tax on mechanical traction vehicles to public transport policies and to programs for the protection and conservation of the natural environment and biodiversity. And that's just an example of where we can... all the field we have to run, and what is our obligation to deal with this situation. Cohesion, prosperity and compromise with climate emergence, basic assumptions of this 2030 Catalonia that we are already drawing with today's decisions, and that, therefore, we should take into account what we are voting for on our own days. This premise also works for the institutional quality and public services; it fights against all inequalities – social, gender and territorial –, fights climate change and bets on innovation, knowledge and the productive economy. Someone will think that this is a premise, after these words, perfect, that cannot be improved, but obviously it is an imperfect premise. It's not the presupposition that we'd want, that we'd like. It's not our ideal premise. As an independentist, as a person on the left, I am convinced that the premise of an independent Catalonia is the best way to build this cohesive, forward-thinking Catalonia and compromise with the planet I have described to you. Because we hope that 2030 Catalonia will be a free country. But, meanwhile, we will not give up the battle of dignity from day to day. While we don't have the tools of the state, we have to take advantage of all the margins. We're not here to give up, nor in the small margins of action we have. Because we can lay the foundations for the future, because we can build a better country, because the citizens deserve it. This ability to project us into the future is part of a change of economic context in which we have seen the Catalan economy as a whole is, therefore, triggering years of positive growth. The year 2019 was no exception. It is true that growth has been moderated in line with the rest of our economies, with the rest of the world economy, due to trade tensions, global uncertainties and, in our case, also in the exhaustion of the fruit recovery dynamic..., after a very deep crisis. Our economy is an economy with a future, because it is an open economy, an economy devoted to the global economy and, therefore, it always presents, therefore, behavior patterns similar to the economies of the euro area, which this 2019 also presented the lowest growth indexes since 2013. But, despite everything, the Catalan economy is still growing at a higher rate than the middle of the euro area. Growth in 2020 will remain stable around '1,9_per_cent and will therefore be the seven-year growth of the Catalan economy, surpassing that of the euro area. We have a dynamic, solid and sustainable economy, and we need to take advantage of the decade you go to make it more resistant to the cyclical vintages and vengus of the economic system. As a result, the first estimates in these estimates are based on a GDP growth forecast of '1,9_per_cent. After years of growth above 3_per_cent we have been moderating this growth, stabilising it, but, despite everything, higher than that of the euro area. We have seen ourselves conditioned by an unfavourable international context, characterized, therefore, by protectionist drifts and geopolitical uncertainties, and a low behavior of the markets of destination of our exports, uniquely the economic motors of Europe, France and Germany. Although the forecasts of the international economy, the advanced economies, have been revised downwards, some agencies warn that there has already been a certain amount of inflection, that therefore the risks remain low, but that the uncertainties have been reduced: the initiation of trade negotiations between the United States and China, the fact that the Brexit has finally occurred with the agreement and the positive effects of the continuation of an expansionary monetary policy for the main central banks. Even this perception, for the moment, the data remain weak, those of the conjunction of the global economy, and we can emerge factors of instability; we are not living one in this country: the consequences, therefore, of a new epidemic, of coronavirus, that is produced in a country, but that has economic effects, effects on expectations, in many areas and very different. Therefore, we must be fond of the evolution of the economy as much of Catalonia as of our surroundings, they are aware that we are not a country rich in raw materials and that, therefore, our economy has a lot of external resources, such as oil. Therefore, we must be able to move forward and transform our product model using alternative energy sources that ensure the reduction of energy costs and increase our competitiveness. It is necessary to move forward with a reform of the energy market, because today the mechanism of assigning prices to our industry places it in a position of competitive disadvantage, and therefore a generation and distribution of decentralised energy is needed. And here the Generality can be and will be a key actor, although we do not have regulatory capacity, also on the initiative of own production of energy. We will lay the floor of all the properties of the Generality to the service of the generation of solar energy. We are the main landowners in Catalonia, and therefore we make them available to the generation of solar energy. As I said, for this reason, these macroeconomic figures have not allowed growth to reach all the worlds, all the sectors of the population. There are sectors, the most vulnerable, that have not seen their situation improved. Every time we find ourselves with the phenomenon of people who, despite working, still feel poor... each time it's a reality that we know about our barrels, our families, our friends. Each time we find ourselves with these cases of people who, while working and getting a sum, this is not used to cover the most basic needs. And also every time we see, and it is more clearly shown, that the face of the poor is feminine, that the mass is often also of a migrated person and that the mass is also moved to the faces of infants and third-year-olds who have spent their lives working, who do not arrive at the end of the month and who live in solitude and silence this situation of precariousness. In the face of growing inequalities, of a wealth that is concentrated globally in few hands, we need the tools of a state to be able to take it forward, as for example skills in the field of work. Let's not talk about the Spanish government's labor reforms that have fostered this wage devaluation. We have the opportunity to reverse them. For this reason, we also want to promote a minimum wage of reference in Catalonia from the Generalitat, and it has become part of this project of assumptions to adapt the country's minimum wages in those areas that we can – contract, the same Administration, promote collective bargaining – to the minimum standard of living that our country needs. Our goal, therefore, is to make a country of shared prosperity, and that we have all the resources available to the service of the citizens of Catalonia, and, therefore, passes to have approved these assumptions; to update the public services of the Generality. And that's why it's important that we have reached an agreement between the groups that support the government, the government itself, with the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Pode; an agreement that allows us to move forward. A presumption that could still be much better if it were not for the chronic fiscal deficit we are suffering, that it could be more if the State did not disloyally assign the deficit targets marked for the European Union. It is not going to stay on the most lax targets on the part of the State Administration, more relaxed, and transfer the requirement to the autonomous communities. Then, let them not give lessons of solidarity. The drama of everything is that which sustains the state of well-being, in salvation, in teaching, in social protection, it is the autonomous communities, the Generalitat de Catalunya, in our case, which supports this fundamental expenditure for the day-to-day life of the citizenry. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia has had to make a very great effort to consolidate finances, a major effort. By 2018, we have achieved – and these years we will continue – a great reduction in the deficit, a reduction compared to 2010, even though many times it has been like a maximum expenditure, a reduction in the deficit of €8,000_million, of €90_per_cent; it has allowed us to regain room for manoeuvre, guarantee the sustainability of finances and above all to have the capacity to respond before future crises. We need to be able to make countercyclical policies when the figures of the evolution of the economy do not follow what we have today. We have improved the debt ratio on gross domestic products and the half-time of payment to suppliers. Tensions of treasuries, which did not allow us to pay, for example, pharmaceutical expenditure in the proper terms, are part of the story, and we have to work because there we are. We have planned these assumptions taking into account that the purpose of the deficit was that it is now approved and that it is now in a process of change, of zero_per_cent. Despite this, we have managed to get the current expenditure to exceed the maximum of 2010. With these assumptions, the current expenditure of the Generalitat exceeds in more than 2,000_million the values, as I said, of 2010, the maximum expenditure of the Generalitat until today. We know the intention of the Government of Spain – and, in fact, it has decided as always, unilaterally – in the framework of the Council for Fiscal and Financial Policy – where there is or does not go, the majority of votes always have one person, the holder of the Spanish Ministry of Heritage – they have decided to allocate 0.2 per cent of the deficit to the autonomous communities. According to the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, it would correspond to 0.3. They didn't tell us, to sell, what would be the deficit that the State had, which ended up with a much larger share. Therefore, we are before a new act of using... as my avi used to say, who leaves, divides and remains the best part. So this was the fundamental principle of the application of austerity policy to the Spanish State. Therefore, this is what they have done to the ministries of Hisenda, they say Montero or Montoro. According to the Enabling Law, therefore, it would correspond to a 0.3_per_cent. We found ourselves, too, as the secretary of economics said, that it was a dishonest proposal. Because they tell us that the VAT they owe us, that we have already paid the citizens of Catalonia, since 2017, and that we were due to arrive this 2019, when the liquidation is done, two years later, which was 443_million euros, did not pay us; that they did not pay what they owe us and that, on change, they left us money. It's as if any of you are told that this month they don't pay their payroll but that they make a loan. Come on, I'll get you some money. This has been the great selling measure of the Tax and Finance Policy Council. This must change; this must change absolutely the orientation and it must be that this VAT is returned to who it is, that in the case of Catalonia it is to the Generalitat. Despite all this, we have a good assumption. We have 25.532_million euros, 13_per_cent more than 2017. It should be noted that 77.3_per_cent is intended for health, education–incorporated universities– and social matters. As I have commented, the priority is the strengthening of the welfare state; it is policies that affect people's day-to-day, through good public services to ensure a dignified, full and free life for everyone, to advance towards the eradication of the poor and to accompany the most vulnerable collectivities, through redistribution policies. We want Catalonia to be a strong, pro-active, forward-looking country with a competitive economy based on innovation and knowledge and not on low wages. Because we want no one to stand back, prioritise social cohesion and work hard for equity. A country that knows the fairest is the freest society is the citizenry. We want, therefore, a country open to the world, poros, able to export the best of us. For this, for the first time, this premise is articulated around the Sustainable Development Objects of the 2030 Agenda of United Nations. Because we understand that Catalonia cannot renounce the global reptes of humanity, nor our co-responsibility, that it is a very small trot, respecting the planet's conjunction, beginning with the struggle against poverty and inequality, the protection of human rights, the enhancement of gender equality and the fight against climate-emergency. One of the goals of this 2030 Agenda is to ensure a healthy life and promote the well-being of everyone. For this reason, the assumptions for 2020 are intended to recover and exceed the levels of health expenditure, with an increase of almost 1,000_million euros, with a total of 1,400 professionals in primary care that we will have at the end of this 2020 respect the last assumptions approved; that the objective must be to guarantee this threefold that the public health of Catalonia is universal, that it does not close doors to the hills to anyone, to any city, and that it must continue to feel, reducing the lists of hope and improving the working conditions of professionals, such as incorporating therapeutic and pharmacological innovations, in a society that envelops and in which the malalties pass, in many cases, from being deadly to being chronic. And that, which is good news, represents a repte, also, presuppositionary that we do not flee. We want to ensure inclusive, equitable and quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for everyone. Learn from the length of life. With a budget of €5.672 million, we'll get back the financing of Bressol schools; we'll increase the food grants for primary school students; we'll set up a pilot for the food grants for secondary school students; and we'll boost an investment plan for educational centres. And in this sense, I would like to highlight the deployment of the inclusive school, allocating EUR 17.2 million for the increase of teaching staff and administrative staff and services, also in the area of the inclusive school. Many of you must have seen, in your..., you must have had the opportunity, in your task as parliamentarians, that you are addressing any collection of couples or family associations from any school that explain to them the difficulties they have with some students who look at their different abilities can stand back and that this affects their personal relationships, their social relationships and their ability to learn and build a future. They can't let us leave them back. And, therefore, this inclusive school decree is fundamental. And also the growth of universities, which after a few years in which we have called for a great effort, increases their funding, and, therefore, we facilitate access to university with the reduction of 30_percent of university fees. These are some examples of how the premise is linked to the Sustainable Development Goals. Because a premise is not just an administrative management tool, it's a social transformation tool. Beyond the economic dimension of the figures, in this premise we incorporate a specific aside, in the explanatory memorandum, to continue to unfold the perspective of gender in the design of public policies; we incorporate a pioneer tool of UNICEF to be more effective in the design of child protection policies; a system of indicators of welfare and social progress, and an ecosystem, to promote an ecosystem of good practical assumptions that mediate planning in the medium term, the priority of spending and evaluation. They've all had the chance to analyze the contents of the premise. I have drawn up the great lines, the philosophy behind this set of figures, where we want to walk, what is the country project, cross-cutting, the fruit of this great agreement between forces and between a government representing the political and ideological diversity that exists in this country, or, as a minimum, a good part of it, and, therefore, the project that has come from this premise. But I would like to highlight a few other points. Security is one of the priorities of the presupposition; the security that particularly affects the most vulnerable sectors of our society. For those who are more able to spend or may live in certain areas, often security is not as difficult a problem as for those who are in a situation of more social vulnerability and victims of inequality. Therefore, it is also a social policy. It will be possible to increase the presuppostary amount of 1,218 assets of Mossos, 378 assets of Bombers, giving, therefore, the presuppostary and presuppostary amount of 1,218 assets of Mossos, 378 assets of Bombers, giving, therefore, the presuppostary and presuppostary amount of the new promotions that have been made, and the increase to develop the Strategic Plan of Bombers and Rural Agents; that we increase the presuppostary amount by EUR 1,975 million to ensure the best service delivery and remuneration to public workers, and the recovery of their labour rights; that we continue to present the guaranteed return of citizenship to us for 125 million more than we do not serve in 2017, with a total of 388 million; that we will increase the financing of our work rights by means of dependency and attention to our service, and that we will serve our service, not in 2017, with a total of 388 million; that we will therefore increase the funding of our work, which we will be able to support the attention to the attention of duty of duty, which we will be used in our service, but for a total of 388 in 2017, so that we will be able to the time, so that we will be able to the present, so that we will be able to the time, that we will be able to support, that we will be able to support the attention to support the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention of the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention to the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of the attention of We will devote more resources to the fight against male violence and remedies in the care of the victim; to policies of gender equality. It has to be a priority, it has to be an intrinsic issue to any present and future government action the fight against gender inequalities and all forms of masculinism. If we want to identify ourselves as a modern and advanced society, we cannot allow any space to exist in the half of the population to be discriminated against, expelled, and still much less, at risk of being abused or assaulted. Occupational policies are also the focus of attention to the 2020 budget. Promote full and productive employment and decent work makes these policies stand at a total of €918_million, 173 more than in 2017 assumptions, to finance employment policies, to consolidate the Youth Guarantee program, to improve the employability of people with functional diversity, young people, seniors of forty-five years, or the struggle against labor leftlessness and precariousness. And, in this area, we would also push, as we said before, Catalonia's reference minimum wage, studying impact and timing to introduce it to the generality and public contract, seeking consensus with social workers. We will also deploy the Professional Training Agency, a space governed by the principles of concertation, to promote the transformation of the professional training and qualification system of Catalonia. We will deal with these assumptions, too, even if we do not have all the resources we want, in the housing emergency, to reduce the waiting lists, in the months of emergency, in the acquisition of housing in the exercise of the right of tanteig and retraction, and in the construction of new promotions. In the field of knowledge, innovation and dynamism, we aim to boost the productive economy and knowledge for sustained growth, through the impetus of an industrial reactivation programme 4.0, support for the digitalisation process, the deployment of the automotive and mobility platform, and the National Pact for Industry. We will also push forward the public optical fibre network, explaining it to all the capitals of the region; a policy that is not only sectoral, but is a policy of territorial balance. We will devote more resources to the National Knowledge Society Pact, for the funding of universities, for the great research infrastructures, because the main economic activity we have is the knowledge generation. Our research project, in our country – which is a tractor, not only from the university community, not only from the research and innovation system, but also from the economy – is not based on other countries that have a powerful search system in a defence industry that generates the needs; ours is based on the life industry, in a health system that generates these needs, because the search system, starting from biomedical research, and also, for example, from supercomputing, putting it to the service of this research, make Catalonia a country to point in the struggle for life and for the salvation of everyone. It's this bet for the economy of life. I'm done. On the other hand, we will also give a new boost, allocating a share of the income tax on stays in tourist establishments, to promote a more sustainable, quality model, and to further increase investments in cultural heritage. In the field of culture, of cultural policies, we make a bet because it is a point of inflection. Let's get along, get along with what we want, in the realm of cultural policies, but let's just say... for the first time in the past decade, the Department of Culture grows over the middle. And we have to bet on it. And from here I express my commitment – and I can also say, that of the Councillor of Culture, because we will work together – for an agreement for the public financing of culture that allows us a horizon for a few years that assures this necessary predictability for the cultural creation of our country. We will also allocate more resources to trade policies. We will expand the Fira de Barcelona, to place it on the European frontispiece of firal fences. We will increase support for the agricultural sector, providing more resources for the global exploitation contract. That's redistribution. And we also want to act on predisposition. Therefore, over the next few weeks, we will have to continue working, with the Department of Agriculture and with the organizations of the sectors, in order to have a policy decided to end the dumping of prices that the big companies of the commercial distribution are imposing on the producers of our country, because this is also fought against territorial inequalities. We will consolidate the Catalan Institute of Finance as a public investment bank. And, in the field of investments, therefore, beyond those destined for the conservation of reelers, in road network and logistic infrastructures, we bet clearly for the recovery of investments in the water cycle, through the ACA, investments in infrastructures and treatment of residues, placing the policy of investments not at the service of cement, but at the service of Agenda 2030. And it also stands out that we are recovering the Single Work Plan and you are serving, with a magnitude that has an impact on gatherings, and that there is already a call from the Secretariat of Local Administration, which provides this single plan of services to collaborate especially with smaller and less resourced gatherings in our country, for its policy of reversal. We also commit ourselves to the impulse of public transport. We begin the project for the construction of the central tram line 9 looking for this European financing and we anticipate the better financing of the Metropolity Transport Authority with 106_million euros. We want to reach 50 per cent of public contracts with environmental clauses and deploy the strategy of estalvi and energy efficiency of the buildings of the Generality installing solar plates at one hundred and thirteen equipments before 2021, because, as I said, we have a potential that is at the same time a responsibility, therefore, as homeowners of the country. Therefore, we are faced with a presupposition that begins a new stage starting from the collective will to work for the common good and shared prosperity, which wants to strengthen and advance the welfare state, which unequivocally bets on the economic dynamism based on knowledge and which advances in arms with the reptiles of humanity, of the international community, such as the 2030 Agenda and the fight against climate change. It is clear that these assumptions will not be executed for the current government. The president has considered that the legislature has no more recourse and that it is better to call the citizens to the ballot box, because it is pronounced on which majorities have the possibility to govern and execute the assumptions. It is true, therefore, that they will not be the assumptions of this new government, but the extended ones of 2017 are still less serious. We would be irresponsible if we did not take advantage of the opportunity to update the accounts. Only those who prefer instability and de-governance for electoral interests want these assumptions not to be adopted. And we remain honest: the injured would not be the government, the injured would not be the first bench; the injured would not approve these assumptions serious citizenship. Therefore, it is the responsibility of everyone to approve the public accounts that respond to the current needs, which put the resources available to the service of the citizenry. Dialeg, negotiation and agreement. Consent. And this is the reception for the political moments that we live on. The era of the monolithic absolute majorities fell alluny. Political fragmentation is on the order of the day and, therefore, it is necessary to do more politics than ever before. Politics is not speech and does not move's. To do politics is to defend convictions, own convictions, but they come to terms. Will to transform; who remains still does not transform. For this reason, in order to generate the institutions, it is necessary to agree different ways of seeing and hearing the country. Recognize them. We're a different country, we have different goals, but that doesn't have to stop us from reaching agreements. Political instability is not immobilism. It's not that it's nothing. On the contrary, political instability is what allows us to move forward as a society and transform it. These assumptions are the result of the dialogue, the agreements, and with a clear will to move forward. We have the opportunity, therefore, to do it, to improve them and to draw among all this Catalonia of 2030 that, when from now on the children who are born today think if we have the opportunity to take a step to improve their day-to-day, they feel proud of what we have done. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.147.0	Thank you, Vice President. Arriving at this point, we will suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon, which we will resume with the presentation of the papers to the totality, for which the parliamentary groups and fifteen subgroups will have thirty minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.148.0	[[Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session.]] [[The reminders that the groups that have submitted papers to the totality of the Project of the assumptions will intervene to defend them, for a maximum time of thirty minutes each, following the order of major to minor; once the defense of the papers, it is possible to make a turn against, of equal time, of thirty minutes, and, if there has been this turn against, the groups that have defended the papers may have a counter-replication of five minutes each. Finally, the groups that show their position and that have not submitted papers to the totality for a maximum of fifteen minutes will intervene. Once the debate is over, all the papers will be voted on together.]] [[In the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, he has the word, to defend the threat to the totality, the deputy Mr José María Cano. When he wants to.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.216.0	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, Councillor, Members, Members, look, today is 12 February and it is therefore more than obvious that these 2020 budgets are coming to this Parliament very late. And the truth is that, at the very least, when they are approved – if they are approved, at the end – they will have lost the work of a quarter of this year; a quarter of the year that adds up to all the time they have already lost, adds up to all that time by turning their backs on the Catalans, because they have been without updating these budgets for three years; more than two years, in short, of political inaction, years of a government that does not govern and that is, in short, of other things. And it is that without up-to-date budgets it is impossible to make good policies for the benefit of citizens. The budget is the most important law passed in Parliament; that is what we agree, Mr Vice-President. But we see that in all parliaments except this one, we don't see it in you. It is ultimately the law that quantifies how resources are going to be allocated to the different policies they want to implement and estimates how the resources that are going to be financed are going to be obtained. The frivolity of not having budgets, in short, is unthinkable in any entity of some relevance, whether public or private. It is unthinkable, because not having budgets is tantamount to having no direction, tantamount to having no project. And you, gentlemen of the government, have been out of bounds for over two years. And today we have seen it clearly, in your speech, Mr Vice-President; it was a grandiose speech, I recognize it, but empty, and it gave the impression that it was an exhausted speech. And it's obvious they don't have the clear numbers, because they don't use them to improve well-being. They are a government that does not govern, and not only do we say it, so the Catalans consider it, and the polls say it, you know it: in the last survey of the CEO neither 2_per_cent of the Catalans consider that they are dealing with their real problems and more than 60_per_cent of the respondents consider that, even if they did, they would not know how to do it. And they're right, they're a government that doesn't care about the real problems of Catalans and that wouldn't know how to do it either. And it's that you're on to something else. Look, I do not know any region of the world that presents budgets with this lack of conviction that you have shown us today, Mr Vice-President. They have begun parliamentary proceedings by announcing that, if approved, they will call elections and thus manage them by others. And, on second thought, I even come to the conclusion that they're quite consistent. What do budgets serve someone who does not know how to use them and who is more comfortable without them? And this also has a very clear drift: what they have done is announce that they are starting their electoral campaign, the longest in history. But if they do not deal with the real problems of the Catalans without being in the campaign, will they do so now, that they have announced the first elections of history in delay and without certain date? , now that they are a government that declares itself in office for an indefinite period of time? And it is that at the moment you have hung the sign of 'closed by elections and made public that you are going to dedicate yourselves exclusively to working in favor of your electoral interests, of your partisan interests; you are going to focus on your internal battalions to see who is taking the largest piece of the independence cake. And it will be many more months of disgovernment. And the saddest thing is that, have a budget or don't have it, things don't change much. Don't you really see that all this is nonsense? Can't you see that this is a tremendous irresponsibility and a democratic anomaly? You are, indeed, an exceptional fetus, which you said. Do you not realize that you have been in your world for years, gradually losing contact with reality and that you have gradually been neglecting the problems and needs of the citizenry, devoting your time to topics that have nothing to do with the good management of the public, that have nothing to do with guaranteeing and improving the state of well - being, that have nothing to do with occupying and developing the skills that our autonomous community has? You're on to something else. And the sad thing is, they've always been. That's what the process is about, being at something else very different and far away from the citizenry. If you don't believe in your budgets yourself, how will we believe? We know them well. What credibility and rigour will they have if they do not take responsibility for managing them? And we start from a reality: these are still autonomous budgets. I hope that this year we will not be told again that they will be the last autonomous ones, because I want to understand that they have already realized that it is not democratic to raise a border to solidarity. But what remains is a budget for the process. For you, every budget line must be imbued with by its eternal process. And that's what's harmful about these budgets, because when you make public budgets you should always set as a priority the welfare of the citizenry and mark it as a goal to achieve a fairer society, a more united society, that values the effort, that guarantees equality of opportunity and that you don't leave anyone behind because it's going through a bad time. But in your case, that is not the case; all your budget items have as their final objective to raise a border, and you were saying it here, in this atrium. We just have to observe all the acts they mount, all the speeches they give in their actions, all the conflicts they put on the table and the use they make, above all, of public resources. In Catalonia, the media, when they talk about you, they don't talk about social improvements, they don't talk about improvements in services, they talk about processes, they talk about disgovernment. So, beyond the specific headings, we are also presenting a total amendment to budgets that are, as always, monotheme budgets. And this time, as a final finish, let us say, to curl the curl, it is a budget that contains the fatal contributions of the commons, which are those who have joined this budget. By the way, gentlemen of the commons, the fight against caste has been forgotten by the corridors of the institutions as far as I can see, because they have agreed a budget with high offices and customer networks. And they have not agreed on a single measure of democratic regeneration, nor on a single one. That's right, I recognize that what hasn't changed is your vision of the self-governing. For you, anyone who wears a truck with a logo or who has invested his savings in a property remains a wealthy supposed to have to raise taxes without compassion. Seeing the agreement, what you have done in the end has been to sell to the old Convergence, to convergent lords who must be delighted, I understand, with the rise in taxes of the commons, which affect the middle and working class, and share their economic policy. And it's to be very concerned, because all this you're doing is very serious and very harmful to Catalan society and economy, and it's going to happen and it's going to pass bill. Let us focus on the first part of the negotiation with the commons: revenue. This analysis, I admit, is the easiest: everything is reduced to raising taxes. But there's more to it. Presenting budgets, renouncing your management and announcing that you are going to call elections, makes it that, as brown is going to be from others and you are not going to manage these things, you have forgotten the principle of prudence that must be one of the main axes in estimating income. And we cannot share the estimates they make, because they are, to say the least, unwise and very risky. In the autonomous segment of the IRPF, they estimate an increase in collection above 20_per_cent compared to the 2018 fiscal year, and it is very unlikely that in two years it will increase that collection by 20_per_cent. These calculations themselves can already represent an overestimation of more than 1,000_million_of_euro. We also have many doubts as to whether the increases in collection provided for in VAT, in the tax on transfers of assets and documented legal acts, and in the tax on inheritances and donations are being met. And we must bear in mind that while the revenue from a budget is not certain – it is only forecasts – the expenditure that is budgeted is, a priori, certain, it is commitments, it is expenditure that will be implemented. Therefore, any misadjustment that occurs will have to be compensated or through another increase in taxes, either by indebting us more or through cuts. And the rules of budgetary stability tighten their indebtedness in order to avoid obviously the outbursts. Therefore, it is most likely that they will cut or increase taxes again in line with the obsession of their partners, in this case, of the common ones. And keep in mind that we are talking about tax increases in an autonomous community where the middle class and the working class bear the greatest fiscal pressure in all of Spain. It supports it precisely because of the decisions that have been made by the different governments, which have not..., that have abused the ups and downs of the IRPF's autonomy, which is that which depends on you. Just as they have abused creating low-use taxes of their own. We are also the autonomous community with the most taxes in Spain, and they will create more. And, on the other hand, we must consider that Catalonia is not a fiscally competitive region, which makes investment and talent able to choose to go to other more competitive regions, fiscally speaking. And above all, that reality dismantles the populism that you use, lords of the commons and Podemos, which sees great fortunes and great companies everywhere. And it is that 95_per_cent of the Catalan business fabric is made up of small and autonomous enterprises. If your populist tax pressure thesis – which is very low – were true, in the commercial register there would be queues to register companies..., large companies here in Catalonia. And it's not like that. The queues have been produced precisely to change headquarters in the face of the legal insecurity generated by a disloyal government that constantly threatens to jump over the laws; and that goes its way, regardless of the Catalan society and the economy. And that, for more inri, does not govern. And the most outrageous thing for me, too, gentlemen of the commons, is that they have not agreed any other way to change the situation, beyond resorting to the easiest, which is the rise of taxes. Active employment policies have not been envisaged. They did not intend to improve the Catalan occupation service, the SOC; they budget 389_million, but it is a service that is inefficient to guide, train and accompany job seekers when they enter or return to the world of work. Nor have industrial policies been set in motion to generate greater added value and thus increase collection. Nor do they present efficient fiscal measures to combat corruption, nor do they present measures to combat tax fraud. Instead of obsessing about the management of taxes over which they are not competent and managed by the Spanish Tax Agency, they would have to devote these resources to the fight against fraud, for example. It'd be... they'd be better used. The budget of the Catalan Tax Agency is 83_million_de_euros, redistribute the best and focus investment in the fight against tax fraud and in facilitating the lives of citizens. And it will improve, above all, coordination with the Spanish Tax Agency. They have one of the best systems in the world, but of course, that's why they have to be honest. They must be an administration that can be trusted by the rest of the administrations and above all by the citizens. And if all they're trying to do is give them the key to the box, with tricks and no guarantees, in the end their efforts and all that waste becomes useless. And why do they not aim to improve funding? Do not leave Catalans without a vote in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Go and discuss and argue a better funding model for our autonomous community. The one we have expired in 2014. Go and defend a new one, which will surely benefit all regions, all communities. There is room for improvement, even if we have to set a timetable for adaptation so as not to harm any autonomous community in the short term. Instead of devoting resources to calculating useless tax balances, they are devoting them to preparing a strategy to improve autonomous financing. Because, Mr Vice-President, outside the independence account, fiscal balances have very little use for political decision-making, because they would give the same result if they were calculated between provinces and between Catalan regions, which, by the way, you do not do. He doesn't care either. In Catalonia, what I would show us is that the richest areas provide resources to the least-favoured. And that's called – as you well know – solidarity and redistribution. Or is it not true that more than 80_per_cent of the resources come from the province of Barcelona? Or is it not true that more than 37_per_cent of the resources come from the region of Barcelona? It's evidence. It is therefore clear that public expenditure must be distributed so that all the inhabitants of Catalonia, where they live, have guaranteed the necessary resources per inhabitant. Just like it happens in Spain as a whole. The only difference is that you have decided which perimeter of solidarity you consider your own. And he has decided that the rest of Spain are not his own, so they want to treat them as foreigners. And I understand, Mr Aragonese, that, if you could, you would apply international law to them. You don't move out of solidarity, you move out of selfishness whether I'm interested or not. [[Widow's remorse.]] That in itself is international law. That is what international law is all about: we no longer share solidarity, from there we relate to those who are interested in us. And that's what you want to build. Therefore, leave that insolidity and negotiate the benefits of improving the financing system. They can make it more transparent, easier to follow or easier to interpret. They can reduce the differences in adjusted per capita calculations, so that they are more precise, and thus improve equality, justice and redistribution. They can also work to improve the vertical distribution system. Why not? But if you do not go to meetings, if you do not take autonomous financing seriously, if you do not put your model to us, it will be impossible to defend it, Mr Vice-President. And they won't get us to improve our funding system. We can't get any more resources. Therefore, instead of complaining continuously, devote your time to seeking solutions. And, I ask you again, because for my group it is incomprehensible, Mr de Esquerra Republicana and Mr de las Communes, have they not really at any time considered reforming the administration? Have they not committed themselves to reducing not a single euro of the mastodontic bureaucracy? Not a single measure of regeneration, lords of the commons, being those who, theoretically, came to put an end to the caste? Have they not spoken of agreeing or reducing high office? [[Greetings.]] Because this budget, of course, increases the number of senior officials. Have they not also agreed to review the parallel entities of the Administration? Have they not even considered reviewing the way in which they grant subsidies, gentlemen of the commons? Or close those entities that become real placement agencies for process living? Have they not required the rationalization of autonomous bodies, instrumental entities and other unnecessary and duplicate structures? As, for example, those bodies that do not meet, which have been with the board of directors for more than a year without meeting. I am that, gentlemen of the commons, in your agreement, which is a massage agreement with the nationalist right of all life, I do not see that at any point I speak of democratic and institutional regeneration and you have had an opportunity to do so. Nor do they talk about anti-corruption measures. In Catalonia there is extensive experience in this area, but in its agreement I have not seen a pact on corruption, nor have I seen that they demanded greater transparency from this Government. Look, it's a government that spends 7.5_million_of_euro on external delegations, without us knowing what delegates are doing and without them appearing in Parliament for more than four years. Today we have seen that you also pay reports to international bodies to speak well of you. And now you, gentlemen of the commons, go by your hand. Are they really telling me that they have not come to any agreement on rationalizing public spending or evaluating public policies? Have they not been concerned with ensuring functional independence, for example, from the general intervention of the Generalitat? Have they not agreed on any measures for the sound management of public contracts? Above all, minor contracts, on which there is greater corruption. It is because they have not even agreed that these gentlemen respect the legal order, at least I have not seen it either in the agreement. And now, to get a fairer electoral law, we don't even talk, do we? They haven't negotiated that either. Nor have they demanded that they work to improve, as I told them, autonomous financing. That is why I wonder: What kind of agreements have you reached? [[Rialles.]] Those who said they were coming to regenerate politics and put an end to caste, what happened? Do we not regenerate anything? Are we only limited to a series of games? Look, gentlemen of the commons, what you have done is to agree on your election campaign, an election campaign based on a series of games that, in addition, its compliance is not guaranteed, with the intention of selling four headlines, I recognize it. That is what you have done, gentlemen of the commons, and that is why you have not managed to reduce a single euro without raising taxes. Not a single euro to devote to health, education or social issues. Look, in the end, the new policy you claim to be defending is identical to the old one. We come to the conclusion that the only thing they pursue is power. [[applause]] to become you who take advantage of all those structures and customer networks for your benefit. And what's certain is that this is not going to improve the lives of Catalans. So, like..., if you want, then we'll have a discussion. Therefore, the conclusions of the analysis of revenue items are: that the calculations on the collection of the different taxes are unreliable; that their only proposal, and the one that they have agreed with the commons, is the rise in taxes to the middle class and working class; that they will not put in place active, effective employment policies; that they will not put in place policies that help the Catalan industry; that they will not make efforts to improve our financing system; that they prefer to play to build state structures rather than improve anti-fraud mechanisms; that they will not reform even a peak of the Catalan administration and will continue to want to use it as a placement agency, as a genuine customer network, without transparency, escaping the control of citizens and this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] I'm going to the expense section. On expenses, a first point. A basic principle of good management is not to waste, but, above all, not to misuse public resources. At that time, the judges have already ruled that, with the budgets of 2017 – the current ones, because they are extended – they misled. Therefore, we started from a certain reality, they embezzled and squandered the money of all Catalans. And another fact is that the Court of Auditors claims EUR 4.1 million from Mr Puigdemont's Government for misappropriating public funds as well. Precisely because of that, for what I was saying, for misappropriating public funds. We all know what it's like to mislead. « Malversar means that they allocated public flows to use outside their function. That's what the RAE tells us. That is, instead of using those resources to improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens and to allocate them to effective policies to reduce inequalities, they allocated them to their illicits, which they also did with the so-called 9-N consultation. And I also ask the lords of the commons: Does that not mean anything either? Have they not agreed on the issue of misappropriation? Will they continue in that system? Will they allow it? That of not having budgets where misappropriation is accredited, together with a government that ensures that it will return to iron, makes an amendment to the whole essential by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, which is the one I represent. Let's get to the expense items, as I said. As far as expenditure is concerned and at the generic level, they continue with the trend, with the tendency to go up public spending year after year, without making any self-criticism, without prioritizing and without evaluating their policies, and as we have said before, without carrying out any reform, opening the door to waste. They say they have reversed the cuts, but the reality is that those budget items that they present to us are not reversing the cuts, nor are they taking into account the increase in the cost of living since before the crisis. The increase in IPC, in the period 2010-2019, was almost 13_per_cent and the consignments, by far, do not recover the updated amounts. We are told that in this budget increase 3,070_million_of_euros non-financial non-final spending on 2017. But if we review the proposal, we see that much of the increase presented to us is simply smoke. I explain: 40_per_cent of the resources say that they are going to be allocated to health care and to pay part of the extra pay they owe to officials. And on the issue of overtime, what they did was use the officials as the financial for their mismanagement. And, man, to say it's a very social budget improvement and pay what you owe, I don't think it's the right thing to do. In short, it is more of a show of its disgovernment. In no case is it a social improvement for citizenship to pay off the debts you have; it is simply fulfilling the obligations, which is what they should have done in their day. And on the health item, I want to say to you, the latest budget implementation data, for the year 2019, and which have just been published, already show that last year's final health budget was over 10,550_million_de_euro, while the 2020 health budget includes an item of 9,659_million_de_euro. In short, what they have done is try to update that huge gap between what they budget each year and what they implement. But it's just a make-up, because they're not going to allocate any more resources, and therefore they're not going to improve health with their policies, nor are they going to improve waiting lists with this budget. And let us hope that after the elections there will be a change of government, and that this government will be that of Citizens, because, if not, almost in all probability, about the month of October, approximately, October or November, the managers of the hospitals will receive a letter from the council demanding the cuts, which is not the first time it has happened. The reality, therefore, is that they are still in the cutting phase, and we will continue below the Spanish average in investment and primary care. And that is why one of the indicators of well-being and social progress of our autonomous community shows us that Catalans increasingly have a worse perception of health and lower satisfaction with Catalan public health services. And it is not, of course, the fault of our excellent professionals – they do everything they can; I would even tell them that they do much more than they can – it is the fault of mismanagement. If we talk about education, we see that it is not a priority for you, even though it is one of the most important and important items, because it is one of the keys to progress and a basic piece to improve the well-being of citizens and to guarantee, above all, equal opportunities; we are faced with a budget that does not bet on an adequate improvement of education. It is not going to guarantee a trilingual education of our students: Catalonia is the autonomous community that devotes less effort to teaching English, and let's not say Spanish anymore – today we have seen the opinion of the mayor of Vic and deputy of this Parliament –, when language knowledge is basic in a globalized world, as we live in, and you still do not invest in training teachers so that you can teach in English. And we will continue to be the autonomous community with more students studying in barracks – that is not going to change this budget either. Nor will they guarantee the freeness of teaching, because they do not contemplate the freeness of textbooks or of the rest of the curriculum material. And they continue to do so, while in Catalonia what grows is the percentage of young people who neither study nor work. And it lowers the quality of the basic skills acquired in the fourth of the ESO – we are also told by the indicators that you have collected in the budget dossier. And we have a 17_percent drop-out rate, a percentage that is well above the European average. All that while you remain anchored in self complacency and falsehood. Because, gentlemen of the Government, I think you should open your eyes: we do not have a « model d'èxit educatiu, what we have is an educational model that makes water, an educational model that does not bring anything to equal opportunities and that would have much more journey if they took care of it a little. And if they do not assume that reality, therefore, they will be unable to improve it; it is the first thing they have to do. And the most dramatic of the situation is the social landscape that we have after forty years ruling practically the same. Under his government has worsened the Arope rate, for example, that what he does is measure the risk of poverty and social exclusion. One of the four Catalans is at risk of poverty, with a cruel impact on minors and women, who still have a higher rate. The poverty risk rate has risen, and already more than 21_percent of Catalans are at risk of poverty. And, as the Vice-President said, the risk of poverty at work has been fired. Today there are families who, despite having members having jobs, do not arrive at the end of the month, due to the excessive rotation, because these jobs are precarious, and neither will be solved by setting a minimum interprofessional wage of reference. And the reality of Catalan families is that more than half of them say they don't reach the end of the month. That is why it is very angry that while all this is going on you follow your own, promising these people, these citizens, paradise, promising the weakest the paradise, selling them the smoke of the process, and presenting us with budgets that are going to do, in short, to perpetuate these social inequalities. [[Greetings.]] It's just that they haven't even been concerned or busy updating the Social Services Portfolio, it's been 13 years without doing that. And, therefore, for example, the ratio of staff in residences is not up-to-date, nor are the benchmarks. Nor in the case of the elderly; they only allocate one more euro per dependent in assisted residence, one more miserable euro after three years without a budget. On the other hand, the investment they make in children is light years away from the European average. And the allocation of guaranteed income for citizenship will not be enough to cover needs, nor will it alleviate the bureaucracy of waiting lists in dependence, much less. I recognize them, and my group recognizes them that all these issues have no easy solution and that they do not exist in miracles either. But what I can assure you is that if you do not devote yourselves, if you do not focus your efforts on improving the situation and opt to devote yourself to your things and your friends, we will increasingly have a more unequal society. What good is so much meeting, so much covenant, so much paraphernalia if in the end all this is not reflected in the budgets, which is where it has to be reflected? If we talk about the economic aspects, it is hopeless how this budget treats the economy. If you are still obsessed with setting up your own public bank. Do they have no memory? Politicians were responsible for breaking that public bank, because they were entities that were ultra-politicized, infested with politicians and politicians that had no idea of banking, and they were only responsible for benefiting their friends. And here they have all participated, including the common ones, through United Left. And in Catalonia we had the main example of a public box. And all that while the Catalan industry is going through a bad time. And you fill the mouth of the Catalan Pact for industry, but you haven't even put in place some of the measures that don't require a budget, and you only devote a 1_per_cent more to economic dynamism. Obviously, this does not allow the development of the Pact for Industry, a pact with an investment of 1,844_million_de_euros for the period 2017-2020, investment that they will not comply with. Mr Aragonès, we are defending a budget that fights inequalities, that does not allow anyone to stay behind, that believes wealth, that guarantees solidarity, justice and equal opportunities, a budget managed by honest politicians, serious politicians who do not devote themselves to disobeying judges or being able to embezzle or waste everyone's money, courageous politicians who reform the administration and take away the webs accumulated after forty years, and this budget has nothing to do with that. We will work hard and put forward amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.149.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.150.0	This is our... – deu segons, president –, this is our commitment to citizenship, and therefore we will work tirelessly so that Catalans have a government they can trust, a government that works for and for real Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.151.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend its goal to the totality, has the word now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs.Alícia Romero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.152.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President, counselors and counselors. I know it's hard that President Torra isn't there at this time and I can't listen to our comments about a premise that he wanted to comment on at this morning's session. Vice President Aragones presents us today with some assumptions that we already told them yesterday that they arrive late in politics. In fact, a few hours ago, it did not happen or twenty-four, which was validated or validated by the Presupposition Law Decree, because the 1st genera, so we were not able to put a new presupposition on the market. Do you know how many years we haven't had a presupposition of 1 gene and so we have to apply it from the first day? So you've given them years. The last was the premise presented by Councillor Castells at the beginning of November and approved on 23 December 2009 to apply it to the 1st generation of 2010. That's, like, a decade without presuppositions at the time. And it is true that in that government of 2010 there was Republican Left, but it seems that this way of doing it did not take you to the word of things after; which is why today we might already have an approved assumption. Listen to me, I said a decade ago and some Member denied me, so I will clarify it, a decade without any assumptions approved when it touches, responsibility or Convergence or Republican Left. It's true from the Republican Left since 2013, that it's going to say and remember that it approved some convergence assumptions and PP with a few clippings of more than 2,000_million euros in social policies, and so let's just say it all and remember it, as I was then retraced... Listen to me, and what did he bring us? So he brought us a period of instability, because ultimately the instability and uncertainty of not approving assumptions leads us to a worse situation. And who's responsible for all this, right? Now that we're talking so much about responsibilities, we're actually talking a lot about this in the House. So, look, I want to say to you: from this legislature, which began in early 2018, you didn't submit assumptions, and you understood, there were elections, the government was formed in June and, therefore, nothing to say until here, listen, we understand. Now, by 2019 you could have submitted a presupposition for 2019. Actually, they already defined him, and they already designed him. What's going on? They introduced him to the press, he leaned on the web and neither approved the Executive Board nor led him to register with Parliament. I don't know if it's that you don't want to counteract different models. The case is that at that time it should not seem so urgent or so extraordinary to approve a presumption, and we are speaking, Vice President, of a few months ago, and, in change, today, yes, today is very urgent and very extraordinary to approve some assumptions. Look, honestly, at what is commonly said: don't queue; if it's so urgent today, it could and was so urgent also 2019. I hope they don't say that it's common fault, that it's who they negotiated the presupposition with, and that the whole thing has widened because it's been besieged, so it's their fault – always look guilty to you, huh? We know that, but, well, in any case, I wouldn't give you that excuse either. Look, and speaking of the commons, it's the only group you've ever wanted to negotiate with. They just wanted to negotiate with them, with us, they didn't want to dialogue or negotiate or agree, and it seems that what you do very often, or want, is to silence the opposition, and we also need to remind them that the Government has some powers and functions and the opposition has some others, and it is not to adhere to anything the Government presents, even though we no longer approve of things from the Government, by responsibility, but it seems that these assumptions, by responsibility, cannot be approved. And, therefore, that's what we give them. And I'm surprised, you've always been so fond of dialogue and democracy that you've only wanted to talk to a group. Miri, three years ago we gave to Vice President Aragones who ruled for seventy-two deputies, now you are doing it for seventy-four, which is with the only ones who wanted to talk about assumptions. It's all right, but then don't say they won't get up from the table because they're through the dialog, because in this case it wasn't like that, they didn't talk to us. And they present a premise that we believe will be approved, but that it is an exhausted government, that they say that they will then call an election – that we also, pared to the commons, hope it will be so – and, moreover, they will mortgage the life of a future government, and, therefore, to us what it would seem to us is that what should be done, therefore, is to call an election and that the future government will already be able to present them. You should go away and not make us live a few weeks more than an agony that has been going on for too long between two partners, that sometimes more than for the sake of the country, it seems that you are fighting for the hegemony of a political space oblivious to some who are their responsibilities. Anyway, it's a shame that I found out who's helping them keep this agony going for a while. Look, we're presenting this to the whole, you know, for a lot of reasons. We have told them that because they arrive late in politics, but also in the social, very late. You said, Vice President, that six years ago we had economic growth, and I ask myself, and why have we not taken advantage of it by adopting presuppositions before? It's that they're very surprised, if six years ago we're in this situation, so they could have used it as a minimum, I'm telling you, the year 2019, because for what we did... or what we've adjusted to is the goal of disability. That's what we've been doing for a long time. And I'm not saying we don't have to, huh? Obviously, we have to respond to the deficit and fiscal stability objective, but you have not done so with more tax receipts to follow social policies, you have done so with detail, you have completed the deficit target, because we already gave it many years ago, you could have increased the entries and you haven't done it. And now he's going to present us, from here to here, the Tax Measures Act and finance a little more just and progressive tax reform, but it's not that you're convinced of it– and less your PDECAT members – Together for Cat – Convergence –, because the common people have put them on the table as a negotiating element. I, look, I want to use a simile of Vice President Junqueras, right? , and he says: "The PSOE began to dialogue with Esquerra because parliamentary arithmetic forced him to negotiate. So look, I, using this Junqueras logic, I say to him: Republican Left has neither wanted nor wanted a tax reform – less together for Cat, obviously –, does it counter, because parliamentary arithmetic forces it. [[Some applause.]] That's what's going to happen with this and other things, and I think it's also good to be clear. You are not dialogue and negotiation because you believe in it, in the dialog, but because you are obliged to do so, because the numbers don't give it... And that's his job, huh? But anyway, also, let's say things by their name. Miri, you also say that this assumption involves 3,070_million euros more..., or that is, with 3,070_million euros more, greater than the initial of 2017. And so it's true: the initial of 2020 is bigger than the initial of 2017. We can't deny that. Yes, things, when they are, they are, we die; try – try – to be honest. Now, when an analysis of the executed, the liquidated, the recognizable bonds of 2017, 2018 and what we know of 2019, we see that we have spent more of this initial than you proposed. And if he doesn't like the liquidates and the executed ones, which he also denied me the other day – lately I've been very reneged on the Republican Left – so I'm going over the credit changes that you've made since 2017, because he hasn't made a few to be able to take on some obligations, such as Chapter 1, the payment of the suspicious foreign payments, etc. Well, with only a change of credit that they did at the beginning of 2019, they incorporated you 2,300_million euros. It's like 3,070 million euros we're not there. If we compare it with 2017's initial yes, but as in these three years things have passed we don't have 3,000_million euros to spend. And that's what we do today and we've wanted to say a few days ago. To see, yesterday also the deputy Salvató em deia, said that the presupposition of 2010 was the lowest of the tripartite. Well, I don't know if it was the worst or the best, I didn't want to analyze them. What is clear is that you, Vice-President, are constantly comparing the 2020 budget with 2010. In fact, he is looking for data, he says: « 2,000_million euros more in social spending than in 2010. Well, if you like 2010 – it seems like Mr. Saved doesn't – we'll use it to compare these figures. In fact, we don't like it very much either, and we've always said it, because a decade has passed, and in a decade many things have passed: problems have worsened, we have problems, society has clearly changed... And more clearly, in these two years the IPC has also raised a 16.4_per_cent, and the cost of living, and the cost of services. I just want to give a few examples, because I'm hearing from the deputies. The price of the bressol school of a middle city: miri, 2010 the full day was 133_euros plus; 2020, 156,80_euros plus. The price of the tree, huh? , now that Mr Ordeig was talking about it this morning: EUR 1.76 per kilo in 2010; 2020, EUR 2.39. The T-10 of the metro, of an area: 2010, 8.25; 2020, 11.35. In two years, many things have happened, apart from the problems, and it is obvious that the cost of living increases. And you say, "No, but we're more or less the same as 2010. It doesn't work, it doesn't satisfy us, it's disappointing. You are not reversing the details that 2011 made Convergence and Union with the People's Party, you are not doing it. They can explain a lot to us, but no. And now I'll give you some examples that I think are still a little clearer in this sense. Miri, poor child: the year 2018, the rate of poor child was 21,3, huh? , a total of 1_million_i_mig of Catalans at risk of poverty. It's said fast, huh? But there's a lot of them, a lot of people. I, of these, a 28_per_cent infants, huh? I mean, our kids and our kids. It is the worst data we have, and if we look at them in the European comparison, under Bulgaria and Romania. Deu-n'hi-do. Miri, you know that a few days ago the UN rapporteur for the extreme poor came. It's been 12 days for the state and it's made some considerations that make me feel ashamed to represent, say, the citizens, right? He said – and I used his words – in an interview with him in Castilà deia: "Governments have decided to lower tax rates and have not done much about housing. And I think that, if you look at the total package of policies in at least the last decade, it leads us to conclude that there is a choice to leave poor people in poverty and make wealthy people even richer. This is what has happened, accompanied by a fiscal system that strengthens it. In these past two years that he speaks, it is true that in the State the People's Party ruled, but in Catalonia he ruled from 10 to 12 Convergence and Union, but from 13 to 20 with the Republican Left. It is to say that the policies you have made here have not helped this situation to be pal·liï. And you can say to me: "Well, like it's Spanish... No, no, but it's that the highest rate of poor children is Catalan, above Spanish. That's not to say, Philip Alston, not to come to Catalonia, because maybe the situation is even more painful. And what he does to me is embarrassing, and I feel responsibility, and I think you should feel it. And do you know how many resources you've put in to fight the poor child? Zero. No new programme, no new policy for the child's poor. And if we look at the results of 2019, it's less than what you're planting by 2020. It is to say that they are not mass, say, hopeful their proposals. In rape of gender and in equality, therefore, we are much alike: 2020 the proposal they make of assumptions is 10_millions_i_mig; 2010 with what you like so much to compare, 11.7. It's to say that we lower the assumptions, the resources for which it makes the rape of gender and equality. Taking into account that we have one of the women who suffer from violence in our network, a network that has eight centers and fifty-nine professionals, so we can all conclude that we are in a very poor situation. And we would probably have to put this on our agenda too. Bressol schools. Look, there's a lot of studies going on that say that learning inequality starts at the zero to three stage and it's getting worse in the long run. They say that at 15 years old... the difference in learning between rich children and poor can be three years old, can be even three courses. That's to say that actually betting for zero three is clearly an equal opportunity element. Well, the government eliminated co-financing in 2012, and it's not until they've incorporated it again. Nor do I think it is a Republican Left decision; it is one of the conditions that the commons have laid down to agree on these assumptions. Still, I have to tell them that they're gonna have to turn it on, huh? Because they say 1,600_euros/place. Well, 2010 with the tripartite was 1,800, but they said 1,600 with some kind of debt. We'd like to know exactly what they're going to pay out of the 1,600, what they're going to pay out of the 1,600, because if they're going to pay out of the 1,600, it could be 1,500 or 1,300. Ull, let's see if in the end we don't pay the debt to the joints for those years that they've made the reversal and, in the band, we'll still have a worse situation than we had. So, you get this right; I'm telling the commons, because it's important. Before... [[Funnel veils]] – No, it's just that I think this has to be taken into account. Soledate; he wanted to talk about the big people and the loneliness, which is another issue in this society that concerns us, and a lot, because it grows the loneliness, and this individualistic society brings us to these situations. Loneliness has more become a risk to salvation, which has an impact on premature death, and, therefore, as we look at each other well. But, of course, when an analysis of your assumption comes down again, because you dedicate zero euros to building new residences, which would be a good space for socialization when people are alone and can have a life in company; so you, zero euros. They have reduced the benefits for non-professional caregivers, that is, the people who leave their work to take care of the person they care for, and that is why the State – always so painful – has regained the comfort of social security, and in turn you return the benefits. Home, it doesn't seem very reasonable, does it? , the truth is that..., absolutely unfairly. And they haven't come up with a new model of future residence, which isn't worth money, is it, Mr Moreno? Listen, planting what the residential model of the future is is not worth money, they could do it. Neither do you. The 75,000 people who will follow in waiting lists of dependency. Home, frankly, I am not surprised that there have been reports from economic social agents who say that with these propositions of assumptions, with them, they do not count. Hey, another complicated department. You say yes, that it has increased... Well, listen'm, yes there are positive things in the field of salvation, and when we take the coin and look at the face A, man, so it's true that in search and innovation we have been able to move forward in the treatment of cancer, hepatitis C, AIDS..., we agree. But the other one? , and on the other side, which you have unravelled the primary, we have the investments at least, you need not recover, professionally abused, to which we do not return the 5_per_cent that we took them a few years ago and we will see if the 2_per_cent up, and some endless lists of hope, the greatest of all the state. This guy B, what's the deal? And you say: "No, but this 2020, the biggest assumption of the department's history, €9,789_million. But, of course, when we look at the modified assumption during the year 2019, it turns out that we are at 10,500_million, that is, 800_million more. What are we gonna do? Retailing 2020? Because that's what gives us the xifra. From 9,700, which you proposed to us, to 10,500, that we have spent this 2019, so something has not just gone. We would also like to talk about things that sometimes don't seem so important but that they are, that they are culture and sport. You have cultural and sports entities in a very short time of war. Sports entities, because they say that the continuity of clubs, federations is at risk, and that sports practice is difficult, or that this practice reaches the 100_per_cent of the population. With few resources we can do many things at sports, it is not the great parties of salvation; perhaps if we could review it. And with exactly the same culture, we have a race sector, first..., I don't know how many more adjectives to use; but it doesn't show, this assumption, no sensitisation to a sector that, in other words, goes much further than the '1_per_cent we are asking ourselves to incorporate into its assumption. We have other aspects; when we talk, for example, about depopulation or territorial imbalance. It's a subject that my colleague, Congresswoman Ibarra, asked the government a question, because it's an issue that concerns us. We talk a lot about empty Catalonia, but when you look at the assumptions it's hard to find who the actions are to develop in this area. And we say that because 73 percent of the territory is rural, it means that there is only 10 percent of the population, but more than I mean that there is certainly an agricultural sector there, there, to take care of; if we don't take care of it it is difficult for people to stay, but the people end up leaving. In these last years, for example, and many districts, but above all in the Lands of the Hebrews, they have lost a 6.3 of the population; in the Upper Pyrenees and the Aran, a 6.2, while in Catalonia the population increases. It's like something's going on in some territories, that's that people don't find opportunities and go. And there's a way to deal with it, but clearly, if 80 percent of the foreign investments arriving in Catalonia go to the metropolitan area, and you don't invest in these territories, then, of course, leave them out of God's hand. And I say this because when we look at the investments, that for this year 2020 they are 1,300_million euros, that compared to 2010, with what he likes to compare you, they are 4,162, man, so really yes, there is an effort, but, of course, very far away from that 2010. And, if we're going to look at the detail of the trades, we see how the Lands of the Ebre or Pirineu and Aran are the most punished for inversion these past years. Home, after what happened to temporary Gloria and other elements, we have, I don't know, appreciated a gesture for these territories. But it's not there; it's not there, the reverse gesture in this territory. The truth is, it tastes hard. And he said a phrase that I like very much, Mr Ordeig, about what he says: "Demographics and rural development will be impossible without a strong agri-food sector that guarantees the subsistence of producers and, obviously, that people are left and can generate wealth and jobs. Well, I also support the agricultural sector, which is a sector, agri-food, important in Catalonia. Then you spoke a lot, Vice President, about knowledge. And, of course, knowledge, so important, or "we want to be a country that competes for the low labor costs... So honestly, the assumption that the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge is the one of tourism. Well, that, listen, that tourism, we believe a lot, is 12_percent of GDP, but we have to have a quality tourism and not just based on the sun and platter, and it's almost the only sector that grows in that department. One department, Enterprise and Knowledge, which is strategic, is one of the most strategic that this government has, and the effort that has been made is very little. I think that – there is no Consteller Chacón, but if you listened to me she would certainly agree – we need to put knowledge at the center of the economy. To have a more competitive economy and be able to compete on the global market? Yeah. But not only because of this, but because knowledge must also help us to face some important challenges: the water cycle, the challenges in the field of salvation, energy... That is, it is not just to be more competitive: it is to be able to give answers to some sectors. You talk only about the health sector, which is very important, but there are none else, huh? , and we believe that the search for Catalonia is not just – not just – based on the health sector or on biomedicine, as you said, but I think we have a lot of challenges and we need to be able to deal with them. But in the field of university... university is where 70 percent of the research is generated, and you make a ridiculous bet in universities. The rectors came to ask for 200 million euros more. You will say to me: "There are 129. Yes, but no, because from these 129 we do not have to remove the university fees that the commons and this Parliament have demanded so many times, so many times, and that you have never voted in favour. All the times we've voted for the drop in university fees you've never... the government, together for Cat, left, have always abstained. I do not know, abstain's, whether I am in favour or against; in any case, they did not vote in favour. Now they've done it because the parliamentary arithmetic that Junqueras forced them to do. Well, university taxes are 57_millions, 40_millions almost to consolidate Chapter 1 in all those years that have not changed. In short, when we remain, net, net, 16_million euros: 6 coming from the European Social Fund on research topics and 10 that go, it is true, the new truth, to university investments. In 2010, 7_millions in university investments, we spent the year; now we have put 9,7, 10. Well, all right, listen, all right. Now, new, there's this in college. Listen to me, the student president of the Catalan Association of Public Universities came on July to tell us that the situation was very critical to the university, and that yes, we were in the ranks, but, as we did not make any powerful decision in the funding of the universities, we would suffer a lot. No way. Well, then, listen to me, yesterday or before yesterday, the current president of the ACP... – that this rotated every six months, now she is the rector of the URV –, and the other day they gave her an interview, also quite hard, and there was a phrase, which says: "We are at the deepest hole. And do you know what you're doing? Home, so don't invest in truth, don't believe it's true that we won't compete with low labor costs. I don't believe it, Mr. Aragones, because you, then, when you have to put resources on top of priorities, don't put them on. And in change, you know what they do and where they file the appeal? In a campaign, it's the same, advertising, propaganda, imagery, which says: "Perhaps... – how do you say that? – I will read it: "Deu Catalan universities among the fifty best in the world. There's a reason to believe it. This is a campaign you're making. They talk about universities and a thousand things. All right. They ran a campaign to say that we're collnuts. But it's that we have a lot of problems at the university; we're in the deepest hole, says the president of the Catalan Association of Public Universities. Listen, I quit advertising and I dedicated it to something else, and you do the favor of putting money on it, if you really want an economy of knowledge like you told us. Industry. Well, industry already... : 165_million euros we dedicated to it in 2010, and now 48,7. It's that I really don't know this comparison with the 2010 that proposed it, but it's really fatal. Or, at these moments that the industry is in a brutal change, for digitalization, for energy costs, you dedicate an irritating amount to it, and they say: « Deployment of the national plate for the industry. What's the deployment? If there is less money than 2017, less, because 2017 was 50. I honestly don't know where they want to go. The automotive sector is in a brutal crisis, there are 2,7_million euros. The other powerful unionists say to us: "Well, as we would need at least a few times more than they propose to us. I honestly don't know, then, the Nissan, we all..., well, it's that, listen'm, 48,7_million euros, plus 2 comma... : 50; we dedicated 165. Honestly, we don't understand who this government's bets are. And if we're talking about, that you've also dedicated yourself to an estona, climate emergence, energy transition, man, we don't get to 2-per-cent. Europe says we should be around 25 percent between five and two years ago. Go, to be generous. Come on, we're not gonna make it. But we play a lot of games. You said that, didn't you? He wanted to talk about the children, which country we leave the children. So, actually, 2030, I don't know, Vice President Aragonès, I hope that you are not the ones who manage and are at the forefront of the Generality, but by 2020, fatal – fatal –, the panorama that we leave them there. Now, you must be thinking, "Well, Mrs. Romero who's been talking, but how are you going to pay for all this, huh? That's a question they always end up asking. All right, now I'll explain some things to you. Because it's true that we can't fix all this today, but you have so many years without solutions that, of course, now corrects things cost a lot to fix. You know? You could have done a tax reform before. I don't believe it, that's why he didn't do it. Okay. But I could have done it before. And now we have 500_million euros, those who plan to enter the year you see, for example. So, well, here we can get something else. We could make a little more effort to fight the tax fraud, which we have an influence on, no longer talking about the 16,000 or 18,000_million euros that Gestha speaks about that fraud in Catalonia, the one you have the capacity to do, these 800_million euros that 2014 in a report that you have commissioned..., said that we could fight from the tax agency. There were 400, well, and the other 400 could also bring them out. And, therefore, more tickets. General assumptions of the State, which you also have not spoken about, and now I see that Mr. Pedro Sánchez is a referent in this Parliament, that everyone talks about it, so I will also talk about it. General assumptions of the State, 2019. Clearly, now you're complaining about Montoro's VAT. But it's that 2019, remembers, huh? , Vice President Aragonès, who there are, those 443_millions of VAT, and there were 2,200_millions of euros in investments, and the additional third provision, and Mossos... Remember? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'll tell him if he remembers... – Yes, and so much, President Torra, yes, he remembers. It was all there. And I'll tell him if he remembers why, Vice President, they were the first to present everything – the first, the Republican Left –, the first; then Together for Catalonia, but the first, you. Home! And now he says, "Oh, it's VAT... Well, listen, VAT was 2019, and you presented the whole thing. I say: « Unstabled in the State. Disabled? They were the first ones to donate no support. Therefore, do not unstabilize; the President of the Government said: « without assumptions, elections, which would be very good if you had done 2019 or fessin now. [[Greetings.]] Listen to me, when you talk about the dialog this, so flagged, you, the dialog..., divender didn't go to the Fiscal and Finance Policy Council. Home, so much dialy, so much dialy, there could be gone, vice president. Because you say, "We don't have a vote, we don't have a vote. Well, but the word, the dial, that's so important. Why didn't you go there to support other communities that surely think like you? Listen to me, "we want to lower the deficit target; well, so I might have gone there to say it. The expense rule, whatever it is. It is that they cannot leave the empty cadira of the Catalans; they cannot leave it, mai, enloc. I see that the commons have not left, to force him to go to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. I'm having a hard time. But you should go. However, the secretary of economics went there, he intervened, that they do not get used to letting people who are not advisors intervene, but he intervened and said the opinion of Catalonia. All right. But you go on your own time, Vice President. And yet they have lowered the target of the deficit or changed it to 0.2, which will imply an increase in non-financial spending that we can do on this very assumption. He didn't say that, he could say that, too. No, you're just complaining about the state: "No, the state is less... Well, listen to me, so this change from zero to 0.2 will involve 470_million euros more for the generality, which won't be able to spend them all, I know, but part of it does. Well, I hope you explain to us how you'll spend it. Listen, and one thing I want to say to you, too, that the other day didn't please me very much. You said to me the other day: "No, the Director General of Presumptives says that it is not possible to make a zero base presupposition. Obviously, they can't cover it all and... But, listen, they can go to rationalizing some expense, they can go to attack some expense that is superfluous to dedicate it to more important things. Obviously, chapter I we can't carry, we can't carry the bombers, the meths, the masters, no, I'd just miss, but there's a part of the expense that could be better analyzed. And I say that if 2019 wasn't supposed to, man, they could have done this job! Because, look, Vice President, I don't know either the most or the tallest or the prettiest, I'm telling you right now, but we've devoted ourselves to doing a little bit of work. And it turns out that the cabinet and the Secretary of Economics, theirs, only the cabinet and the Secretary of Economics, I've gone to count the resources... – escort, escort this–, the resources that dedicate to technical tasks charged out, huh? , only the cabinet and the Secretary of Economics, in total knows how many are, who dedicate to technical work outside? 1.818.000_euros – 1.818.000_euros. I'm saying that we could cut it out a little bit and go together; from every department, from every toilet, maybe there's a few: 10, 15, 20. So we look for universities, we look for the poor child, we look for so many things. Yes, it can retaliate, yes, it can review, yes, it can rationalize. It can't be a zero base strictly, but it can look at a lot of things, Vice President, and that's what I think you haven't done. And, listen, I did it with a quick exercise, huh? If anything else, I'm sure we'll find a lot more. So, it's like, I'm rationalizing, I'm analyzing the expense well, because they could devote a lot of resources to it. But while you haven't done all this in these years, so we've lost opportunities to get more tickets that are dedicated to social policies or economic growth. That's it, it's looking like it's looking. I'm having a hard time. And I'm done, and I'm done because we've said a lot of things. I know it's hard, but it's a disappointment of assumptions by 2020, that they don't even reverse details, that they're still creating inequalities, and that they're creating a two-speed society that we think we're fighting against. It is a disappointment of partners – I know hard – because you, with your vote, are holding a government that is dying and do not immediately allow a new scene that could be planted, and you know hard, but you are allowing this agony. And a disappointment from the government, which is recognized as broken, exhausted, that will lead us to elections. They don't know that either. The following, Galicia and the Basque Country, say: « April 5, the joke is over. We don't know here; we don't know if March 18th, March 19th, or April 25th... In the end, president, I know hard, but the concretes and the certains are not his fort. A disappointment from the government, which does not exercise its responsibilities and, in turn, calls on others to join us. And a disappointment from the government, which requires territorial dialogue and oblivion of the dialogue between the government and the opposition, or, at least, with a large part of the opposition. Honestly, a government that Catalans and Catalans don't deserve; we need to turn full and generate new opportunities for the country. This is our position. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.153.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.154.0	Well, late afternoon, deputies, deputies, president, vice president, advisors, counselors. It is paradoxical that self-management assumptions and not a full path to self-determination are the only motive and the only element that sustains this legislature; a legislature in which the path of pragmatism has been imposed. We could see the weakness of the strategy based on the way in which institutions are preserved. Remember what you gave us a few months ago? The objective of this strategy was to avoid 155 and to build a republic that manages autonomous institutions within the legal framework. It seems that these objects have finally been completed. Today's 155 is more present than ever in these institutions. In fact, today, President, you will not be able to vote on the assumptions you have presented in this chamber. The rights – it has shown that time – are not conquered with pragmatism. Was it a case of pragmatism that we defended the U of October reference or was it determined and fighting? Despite this weakness, despite the fact that the pragmatic path to self-determination is weak, the fact that we have seen a self-critical government looking for strategies or a shared social and national horizon, which we have witnessed in these last few months – not the CUP, but the whole country – is a struggle based on partisan fists that forgets the huge reps we have as a people. We cannot, therefore, detract from the debate on the first and last draft of assumptions which will be presented to us by the Government of the Generality of the context in which these assumptions will be approved. No one – no one – escapes that the approval of these assumptions forms part of an intercanvi of chromosomes that includes the assumptions of the Barcelona Assembly and that flattens the ground to the approval of general assumptions of the State. And it seems – it seems – that the government's bet herereous of the U of October now is quite different from what they transferred to the citizenry at the time of their investiture. Now, neither the full road nor the preferred members of the government are the same as at the beginning of the legislature. We have already said that the way of pragmatism and institutional stability has been imposed to maintain the status quo, and it has gone from talking about self-determination to talking about negotiating a financing pact. So she defended it openly today at the control session Mrs. Albiach; she did it this same morning, in this same room, during the control session. He's made the spokesman for his government partners. The bet for institutional stability is Catalonia's bet in Comú, it's the Republican Left bet itself now and, yes, it's Junts' bet for Catalonia as well. And with this we are not saying that you are not independent; what we are saying is that you today, either recognize it or do not recognize it, against what 15-M represented or against what the U of October represented, have aspired to institutional stability throughout the State, because, for the reason that it is, for the reason that you consider, this is the best way to be able to achieve its legitimate party objectives. In fact, in this sense, the propaganda campaign that has surrounded these assumptions has turned into a pre-election tool at the door of a new election that the president has already announced he would call. I suppose he'll summon them and you won't approve of convergent assumptions and then there won't be any elections. This campaign has kept two very concrete objectives: to appeal, for one band, to the perceived institutional responsibility of the parties that push these assumptions, and to say that all those who are not in favor of these assumptions are irresponsible. And, on the other hand, this campaign that has also done is to subrate a supposed social page of the parties that have pushed these assumptions, despite the fact that these assumptions are continuing – we will already enter a little further. But the reality is that today you're taking us into question some assumptions that we certainly know very well. And it's that, if we think that these assumptions are continuous, it's because we know very well the assumptions from which they come, which are the assumptions of 2017. And we will not deny them; we will not deny them that we can be satisfied with some of the assumptions that we have contributed to approve. In the field of education, for example. In the field of education, those assumptions are that they were much higher than the assumptions that you present us today. Well, that's not what we say, that's what the same teaching unions say. In fact, it is only necessary to talk to workers of services that are so essential and useful for life as education, as health care or as social services to see that these assumptions are very far from the demands of these collectivities or of these social agents. In fact, the vice president this morning told us that these assumptions are assumptions that bet for education. How can it be, then, that all unions – all, from first to last – are united on a unitary platform and do not agree that these are assumptions that bet for education. If I'm not misdirected, you got up from the negotiating table. Well, leaving aside this theme, we, therefore, don't let ourselves be left alone and everyone knows what were the reasons that led us to approve those assumptions – the assumptions of 2017. We don't believe in those assumptions – we said that at that time, we said that those assumptions were antisocial assumptions and that people aren't worthy of them – but we approved them because they were supposed to be essential to make the self-determination reference. Then it turned out he wasn't right. It turned out that Junts' representatives for the Yes – today Junts' representatives for Catalonia and the Republican Left – lied to us. But, despite that, we thought it would be worth it, that the self-determination reference would be worth it. And, therefore, although those assumptions were neither indispensable nor necessary to make that reference, we decided to approve them. Why? So because there could open the doors – in case the majority of the people wanted it – to a profound institutional change without precedent, that could return the sovereignty to the people. That was 2017. But today – today – what is the superior thread that justifies the approval of these assumptions? The approval of municipal assumptions for change, Mrs. Albiach? 1,300_million euros more than the previous year that will not be able to meet the increase in social needs, Mr Aragonés? To buy time and leadership shared in a _table of dialog that everyone knows won't help us get close to self-determination, Mr. Torra? These assumptions, beyond the big headlines, are not a bet to inject dynamism into society or to improve public health and education by putting them at the level they deserve. They don't bet either to make a universal sanitation, to eliminate the waiting lists, if not more..., or just to reduce them substantially, but they're an interplay of power plots between their drivers. Let's see: by the year 2020, the government has had 1,600 million more entrances. These entries come because it has increased economic activity. Has this increase in economic activity had a positive translation into the living conditions of the popular majority of this country? So look, the data tells us the opposite – as Mrs Romero has already said –: increase in the rate of poor, poor wage earners, poor children; increase in situations of severe material deprivation, and all the indicators indicate that women suffer from this situation with much more violence. Fastening the data, it's easy to assume that people's needs today aren't the same ones they needed in 2010. But well, we say that we have 1,600 million euros more entrances. What can we do with these 1,600_million euros more entrances? So, miri, the first of all of these 1,600_million euros more inputs have to pass the filter of the goals of stabilization that marks us the European Union, and, therefore, we can only have 1,300_million euros more. But what's going on? That according to the data given to us by the same department, 1,200 and millions of euros are already cut for the trend expenditure. What is trend spending? The trend expense is that expense we need because things are kept the same, as they are, taking into account that today you are therefore providing the sanitation service or having an education at the same levels cost more money. And, therefore, this trend spending – it has already been years, in other presupposition exercises – is higher than the revenue and spending capacity we have to spend on the assumptions. The rest of the money where they're going? There's a lot more left: they're going to pay debts. In fact, we want to stop in this game, because these assumptions are the assumptions that prioritize the payment of the debt. The planned expenditure for the payment of the debt is 10,539_million euros, of which 879_million euros are to be paid interest. In fact, the debt depreciation chapter is the one that pushes the most in percentage, in these assumptions. This is a priority of this government. An increase of up to 34_per_cent respects the definite assumption executed this 2019 in the assumptions of the end of austerity, as said by its president..., its vice president. The payment of the debt, this obsession with the vice-president's austerity, therefore has another face of the coin. And the other side of the coin is said to be poor, it's said to be detailed, it's said to be the precariousness of public services. What hurry do you have to pay the debt? Why do they scan people? We only ask them one thing; we ask them to remain honest, to explain, you have decided to continue to manage the little autonomy left to the Government and Parliament, to manage the little autonomy left to this chamber and to the Government of the Generality denying us the ability to decide. And, look, do us a favor not to talk about sobrieties, or to put life in the center or to talk about self-determination, because, when you're talking about assumptions, what you're talking about is talking about assumptions at the mid-market, at the mid of the sacrosanct Constitution and at the mid of the state. We ask you to remain honest and to explain that these, Mr Vice-President, are not the assumptions of the end of austerity, that they are absolutely stuck for the economic intervention of the State and of the European Union, that they do not have the capacity to control the autonomous finances and that the control they have the financial markets, that they have those banks that every day promote denominations, one hundred_eight denominations per day. Explain to the people that these assumptions do not reverse the details or mark a before and after in public management, because this generates false expectations. Explain that these are not the assumptions that most people and workers in this country deserve, as we explained in 2017. Do you think that the CUP would not vote in favour of the assumptions of the end of austerity? Is that really what they're thinking? The other day Teresa Rodriguez, paraphrased Sabino Cuadra, said that if you are to pass flu, so that 'lsempassin, but please, never say that the flus are good. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.155.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.156.0	Thank you, President. President-in-Office, Counsellor, Councillors, Members and Members, I liked to address the President, but he went away, didn't he? , just like some other Member this morning, or Member, while the Vice-President was speaking. I have a lot of news, I have some good news, and I have some other not so good news, I'd say it was more painful. I won't give them the option of choosing where to start, I'll start with the good ones, because the pains in the end are the ones that justify the threat to the totality that we come to defend in this draft of the law of assumptions that presented us this morning, right? The first of the good news is that for this government, after a year and a half, it was able to approve some assumptions and bring them to Parliament; first to approve them, because the past year was not able to approve them, and then to take them to Parliament. The problem that... basically what you have, isn't it? , is that after they bring the assumptions to Parliament it seems that it will be practically the last thing they do as to Government, because, if the normal governments approve the assumptions at the beginning of the legislatures, this government what it does is approve the assumptions at the end of the legislature. But there's a few good news, and it's that, in fact, I've never imagined that some Republican Left assumptions, with the support of Podemos, were so disciplined and obedient with the goals of financial stability. Jo, the truth, I got stuck, didn't I? But, besides, they are disciplined and they are obedient not with the criteria of Minister Montero, but with the criteria of Minister Montoro, which, frankly, therefore, is to please and even to congratulate them for this obedience and for this discipline of financial stability. Well, in the end, they're the last ones ratified by the General Courts, because after the motion of censure practically to the General Courts could not be approved absolutely anything, right? because of the circumstances that you already know and that you, therefore, also contributed to passing, but this is the situation. And while we're feeling Minister Montero that if, well, the deficit of 0.1, that if the deficit of 0.2, that if the deficit..., you say: "Not 0.1, not 0.2, not 0.3. And the reality is that you're doing zero-deficit, with which, look, it seems good to us, and that's why it says it's good news – it already looks good to us. Now, it is not to be fooled by those – and you know it perfectly well – who, from Podemos, say to them: "Ah, we have a 0.2 plus, we spend 450_million plus, or Mrs. Romero, who says exactly to her: "We have a 0.2_per_cent plus deficit, we spend 450_million plus. [[The timer laughs.]] No, don't be fooled, it's a trap, you know it well, and in this sense you'll be lying next to it. No, it is that this 0.2– this 0.2 – he proposes Minister Montero to avoid paying the 443_millions of VAT debt, which were certainly foreseen in the assumptions of the 2018 exercise, certainly assumptions of Minister Montoro that not of Minister Montero and that they remain in force and that they do not know..., I imagine that yes, they will remain in force a little longer. Disciplinaries with presuppositional goals, zero deficit, debt, expenditure rule, now talking about VAT..., and we start with the pains. Without doubt the premise is the reflection of the government's priorities and the priorities, of course, are in function of the economic and social environment. And this time they brought some assumptions to Parliament – well, "this is not, that is the only time of this government – packed with a gift paper and a lace; that very soft, very nice and that the lace and the gift paper are the prospect of childhood, the objectives of sustainable development 2030, the climate emergence... And one, all imagined, opens the loop, gets into the package and what's ended up are exactly the same assumptions that you approved in 2017. I mean, there's nothing again. And the latch and the bubble are nothing more than a justification. There's no new orientation, but it's just a justification. Because in the end these assumptions continue to be biased assumptions – some other spokesman has already mentioned it –, abhorred, with no notable novelty. And that means that the problems will persist. Spend more – it's true: spend more – but continue to spend poorly. And that's the main problem. The conjuncture..., especially the economic conjuncture, presents risks, and of retruc, the social – of retruc, the social. Obviously, the trend to the economy is growing. They build up a few years ago. Yes, you say yes, it's true, six years grow up. Of course, of the six years of growth, in which you have been ruling more or less, or directly or indirectly, you have left four without assumptions– four –; of the six years of growth, four without assumptions, with the support of the Republican Left. But let's see one thing: we're slowing down – we're slowing down – and we see, for example, the data for 2019. You, under the fake assumptions that you have submitted to the Department's website, because you did not approve or present them in this Parliament, expect an increase of 2.5_per_cent. So, the closing advance of the 2019 exercise is an increase of the '1.8_per_cent. Certainly, just like Spain's conjunction. Or, no, no, that historical differential that Catalonia's growth is superior to that of Spain has disappeared. Tank 2019: 1.8_per_cent, Catalunya just like Espanya. You had a rate of 9,7_per_cent in 2019, and they tank it with 10,2_per_cent. And without going far enough, the government of the state itself was reviewing the forecast for 2020 at a rise of the 1,6_per_cent. And the predictions you make on this assumption are '1,9_per_cent. I insist: 1.9, higher than '1.8 of the year 2019 tank. And these deviations that may occur have effects on financial stability, on deficit targets, on debt. For example, on the deficit, the 2019 target was 0.1, and we were in the third quarter, last available data, in 0.21. Deficit means increasing debt. When the debt is increased, the rate of debt falls on GDP; that is, GDP is growing less, the debt is growing more and, therefore, this rate of indebtedness, and, therefore, it also makes it difficult to achieve the objectives of financial stabilisation. But what's worse is that these deviations also affect the levels of well-being – affect the levels of well-being. By 2020, you are forecasting a rate of 9,5_per_cent, an increase of 37,900 jobs during 2020, and I only remember a xifra: during 2019, the industry, only the industry, has lost 25,000 jobs. Therefore, here we see that there are fevers in the economic situation, if there are deviations from this assumption that you present us. Obviously, the entries are for reference in the measurement bill debate, and I'm doing a short analysis of the government's spending and action. In relation to the financing expenditure, remember the figure of access to the financing facility, which means paying an interest rate of more than 60,000_million euros in debt around 0,85_per_cent, and just a xifra: every 1_per_cent that could raise the interest rate on which we have this debt would represent an additional expenditure of 700_million euros, huh? , with which I believe that having some type of interest in the debt with this 0.85 is that force beneficial to the conjunction of the Catalan society. But you continue to insist on summer structures. We obviously continue to insist that we are against it, with an oversize of the tax agency, with one of the areas that grows the most from the general budget, relatively, in percentages, obviously, is the area of outside, to external relations, they dedicate 18_million euros. Vaja, more than in support of families and women's policies, together; it is to say, dedicate more to the external delegations of the Generalitat, political delegations of the Generalitat, more than in support of families or women's policies. Or the increase in cooperation, which could be out of the question if there is no news of the evil that you are making of the resources of cooperation. As we read today, they have given a grant of EUR 150,000 to the High Commission for Human Rights of the United Nations, which is the one from which the working group that then makes them say that prisoners will be released, right? Therefore, these parties too, which should be out of the question, create problems for us. In the area of culture. We could talk, too, huh? , and we share the need of the sector that there is more investment in culture, more investment in cultural creativity, and this contrasts with seeing, therefore, which, for example, is dedicated to Ómnium Cultural 527,000_euros, which, if it were to promote language they would not have any problem, but how that Ómnium Cultural is dedicated to political making and political campaigns, which we do not want the Government of the General to pay political campaigns of individuals. Or the Language Platform as the language police of the schools, to which is also donated a direct subsidy of 135,000 euros. In the area of education, it seems that you want to end up with the problem of the barracks. Looks like you guys want to finish... by the way, we recognize that. What? Did they make nine schools? No, because the investment in education gives for just over three schools, absolutely insufficient to end up with the more than a thousand barracks they have. You want to end the problem of barracks generating another problem with the concerted school..., and try to laminate the rights of many Catalans and the freedom of choice of center that Catalan families have at school time. This seems to be the way you try to end the barricade problem. So, listen, we wouldn't agree. In housing policies, it passes exactly the same. They persist in the mistake of trying to overregulate the sector. We talked about last week: expropriations, legitimization of the occupation without title of the habitats, limits of prices... Listen to me, no, if what you want to do, that you have the skills of habitating, is invest in social habitating. Do they give more help to pay the caterers to families who can't access them? Yes, they do, but this is the expression of the government's inability to solve the problem, so people need more help, because they are unable to solve the problem. And the problem is only inverted, inverted housing, and not expropriating, or legitimizing the occupation. Encouragement of entrepreneurship. Let's do it again. Industry. A weak economic sector. We wear months warning of the weakness of the industry before the need to bet on the truth for the Pact for Industry. The councillor explained to us the efforts she is making because without having assumptions she can follow the commitments. The assumptions are coming: the program dedicated to industry and the promotion of entrepreneurship is diminishing. Listen, so we understand that you are not applying the resources at your disposal properly. Hey. Insufficient assumption to address the problems that exist, and that there are many. Not to address the problems, sorry, no, it's just that it's insufficient to maintain the Health rhythm, to maintain the Health Department's rhythm of previous years. It is that there are 720_million euros missing only from pharmacy – only from pharmacy –, 720_million euros missing. So, how do we want to address the problem of primary care, the problem of waiting lists? We do not expect anything more than the results that can have the application of these assumptions. I'm done. I have to recognize him and I appreciate it that today, in the presentation of the assumptions, you didn't quote Gramsci. [[Widow's remorse.]] But that doesn't mean, I haven't mentioned it, that this Marxist label of these assumptions doesn't follow. The Marxist label continued present. Surely that's why some enthusiasts will vote for the assumptions; we don't. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.157.0	Thank you, Congressman. Anyway, now, if that's what you want, and you think it's appropriate, the vice president has a twist. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.158.0	Well; very late, ladies and gentlemen deputies, councillors, councillors. Let me start at the end, because this clam of Marxist quotes, in any case, surely you, in one of these argumentative hypoboles that you used to serve, in the debate of the law of measures, may indeed end up quoting that maximum Marxist of each one according to his possibilities and to each one according to his needs. In any case, the tax reform that we are introducing is a reform that deepens in the line of the past few years, in the line of demanding who else has more than more to contribute. From here, I am going to reply to some of the considerations which the different groups which have presented to the whole, so that they did try to vote against this assumption, which they ask that they did not even go into this chamber to discuss, have presented. Ciutadans, the deputy José María Cano. I think you've already had a speech prepared. In fact, it referred in principle to the political agreement, of which there is no such proposal for a presumption, and not so much to the content of the presuppositional project, which obviously goes much further. Because, obviously, the political agreement incorporates a very important part of the novelties of this premise, but, obviously, the premise is not just the agreement, the specific points of the political agreement with the group of commons. Its totality is absolutely ideological, and we have seen that a good part of its intervention has focused on criticizing not the content of the presumption, but the ideology of those who present the presumption. So it's obvious that you have the content of this assumption that they care a little, and they care the most about who presents it. And, in fact, you, in some of these uses that they serve in their interventions, have begun to talk about CEO inquiries. I believe that the principle of prudence is always good – always good – whenever I don't end up doing what Jordi Carbonell tells us, prudence doesn't make us traitors. But it should be applied a little – the principle of prudence, I say – because these also say other things, above all respect the trust and appreciation made by the citizens of Catalonia, as well as their 2017 voters, respect who has been acting in this Parliament, and they also indicate very clear things. In any case, the elections will make this clear to us. You're not worried about people's real problems. In fact, they have been for three years talking about the need to discuss the real problems of the people in this presupposition, and the first one who made the address of his parliamentary group when we started to present the presupposition is to get out; to get out of the hemicicle, in a clear show of interest for which is the presuppositional endowment of Salvation, of teaching, of social protection. You have served an argument, which has already served the other day in committee, and it is my objective to set borders on solidarity. Just beyond that. In fact, the clear bet we make on this assumption to recover the Generality's commitment in cooperation with development, according to the criteria of official development aid, therefore, determined by the corresponding international organisations, is a clear demonstration that we do not pose borders to solidarity. The one who poses borders to solidarity is the one who believes that this must be limited only to within a state, in some interregional transfers that have not served to eliminate the inequalities between the different territories of the State, but that basically have served to enhance the economy of the great Madrid capital to the detriment of the rest, despite some territories to the Mediterranean – Catalonia, the Balearic Islands, the Valencian country, in a certain way – and a Basque and Navarren country that endure. The rest, there has been a reduction of its weight in the conjunction of the Spanish gross domestic product in favor of the great Madrid. So, redistribution, king of kings. So you've also made some considerations that I've been forced to debate, haven't you? First of all, you say that the tax proposal that incorporates these assumptions, and that we then debate, in the law of measures, charges the middle class and worker. So in the case of the IRPF, that's not the way it is, that, besides, it's statistically lied, it can't be any other way. In the case of the IRPF, therefore, the rebalancing of the higher 90_ thousand_euro trams affects..., therefore, asks some taxpayers who contribute more, exactly to 52,000 taxpayers, 1.5_percent of the taxpayers who have more income from Catalonia – more income from Catalonia –, so they will pay more IRPF from the approval of the law of measures accompanying this assumption. Therefore, 1.5_per_cent is impossible to be of middle class. Because if not, everyone else doesn't know exactly what we are. This increase in the trams of more than €90,000 makes it possible to make a first down, small, but first down, and that we want it still to be major, in the 205,000 taxpayers with tickets of the lowest work of Catalonia. Then we can go in where he refers to the estate tax. You too understand and have imposed taxation here as an element of central competitiveness. And that's what leads to the model of places where you are ruling from the hand of Vox and the People's Party, which is to some continuous tax cuts that for the only one they serve is to perpetuate and increase inequalities. That's not our model. You have a model more like neoliberalism, of lowering taxes, so that, from here on out, you believe 'false out of Laffer's raven, that in the end, if you lower taxes a lot, the tax base will grow a lot; it's not like that – it's not like that – and it's about supporting the welfare state. We are in another line, we believe that a progressive fiscal policy, such as that which has more, more contamination, more consumption, more pay and, therefore, from here, produce redistribution, which is absolutely necessary. Apart from criticizing that we are building some..., that we are making reports for fiscal balances, criticizing that we are making this calculation of fiscal balances between Catalonia and Spain, you, apart from criticizing this, then come in all questions and proposals asking us to calculate the fiscal balances between the regions of Catalonia. Therefore, if it is misleading, if calculating the tax balances is misleading, you ask us to calculate the tax balances between regions of Catalonia, you are inducing us to crime. Therefore, perhaps in all these quarrels that they present they should go to deliver to any commissioner of the Mosso d'Esquadra. Sure, then, it's not like that. With regard to the Tax and Finance Policy Council, which was also mentioned by the Member of Parliament Romero. There is nothing to negotiate there; in fact, they have no other..., they have it very easy: take the phone and trick to any socialist councilor or governments where Ciutadans is part, that now there are no four – the four Turins that the president explained to us this morning – and ask them what they have gone to negotiate. Res. It is a body that is formally multilateral, because there are many falls, but the votes are unilateral because the majority of votes are returned by the Minister of Hisenda. And that's it – and that's it. A Fiscal and Finance Policy Council that changes the deficit targets – is the same as those who sit there, because in the end the vote that is worth is that of the Minister of Hisenda – without knowing the conjunction of the new deficit of the State. And we find ourselves then that yes, that we go from zero to 0.2. Great news. Now, the state goes from 0.3 to 1.6. At 1.6. Therefore, a significant difference. And you use one of the arguments... When, logically, we put them before all their explosive logic, they respect a premise that it is to lower revenue, tax measures and increase expenses and say that it will fit, they say: "No, it is that we will reform the Administration. And for you, the reform of the Administration means to make out public workers; for you, the reform of the Administration means to reduce the working conditions of public workers; why do you think it is the public sector of the Government of Catalonia? What do you think are the entities of the Government of Catalonia, the entities of the public sector? They are hospitals, they are health centers, they are centers that serve public policies of the welfare state. Perhaps you want to detail this and it's the model you've been applying to where you're starting to rule, but we're fighting because you can't ever apply it to Catalonia. And then, obviously, the hit. The phonenal hit – which actually already starts to be a hit that may already start to be a little rovellate, could be part of a party remembering Ciutadans –, which is delegations abroad. Delegations abroad. It's the big show that the problem is not the thing, the problem is what we think. If a government is independent, delegations to the outside for you are embezzlement. If a government that is independent is destined for delegations abroad 6,5_million euros, which is the one that is destined in this assumption, this is misappropriation. If a government of which the most far-fetched right in Europe is a part, then it is extraordinary. That's what you do in Andalusia, allocate 24_million euros to delegations abroad. How many have the generality in total? Fifteen. How many have the Junta d'Andalusia? He said – he said. Therefore, for each delegation, the expenditure per delegation is much higher. What's the problem, spending in delegations? No, no, What's the problem? What we think of this government; the problem is the ideology of this government. In short, the problem for you is the ideology and the vote of the citizens of Catalonia. So I'm sorry, that, if it changes, the citizens will decide. And I am convinced that the elections announced by the President will give, with the diversity of composition that follows, more valid to which we defend self-determination, the independence of Catalonia, than to which they have no problem with the extreme right to the four places where they have managed to govern. And that's what we'll see in our own choices. I'm not absolutely convinced. [[Greetings.]] So I think that's exactly what your position is. Its problem is not this assumption, the problem is that it presents this assumption. It's here. In the case of the CCP. Well, I'm celebrating, because he respects yesterday has improved a lot. Maybe we should... – and we also made this debate after dinner, which you did yesterday a little bit of pride; I don't know – in any case, I celebrate the change of everything. I do not celebrate the content, obviously, because you have made zero proposals. I guess today, probably, you've won a lot of points for your own Socialist Party electoral list. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? They already say yes. Therefore, I think it is best to show that the Socialist Party's line to the proper elections will be the zero proposals, which are what we have experienced here. Zero proposals with alternatives to the pressupost. [[Widow's remorse.]] And zero proposals and all day looking at the rear-view mirror – all day looking at the rear-view mirror. That is to say, you are three years old when we do not present a presumption and, to which we submit a presumption, you vote against it. We want to negotiate the budget, we want to negotiate the budget; we have the first meeting; Mr. Iceta, at the end of this July, we say to the president at the control session: "We are even willing to talk about the budget negotiation. The holidays went very badly, because August 23 came out of Mrs. Granados and said: "Let's withdraw the offer of negotiating assumptions, if they do not give up their political premises. So look, we won't give up our political approaches, I'm sorry. And what we're gonna do most is approve the premise. You didn't want to be a part of it, you didn't want to be a part of this negotiation, and I think you've lost it. You didn't want to negotiate, and I'm sending you to the newsroom. They also serve an argument that just needs to see the recap and tax reports to find that it is absolutely false that it is..., he goes on to say: in the end they have done some tax measures because they have forced them. Obviously the content is granted, as it cannot be otherwise, and therefore we have had the help of the group with which we have agreed the assumptions to advance in these fiscal measures. But what you can't deny is that from 2012, when some of us started to put alternative taxation proposals at this premise, we understood that the refusal to these convergence and union assumptions and the People's Party had come up with future alternatives to entry to the table..., and so we did, at the end of the day they were beginning to approve. What, if not, was the increase in the interest rate on the rickets? The increase in the income tax on assets? Impost that who withdrew it was a José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero l'any 2010. And we'll get it back, so we'll get it back, lowering the free minimum and pushing it back from 2012. Or the tax on the banks, the tax on the bank deposits that you approved to Extremadura, but his representative in this Parliament – in this Parliament – in the first debates said that it was an absolute downfall. Then they saw that this did not quite agree with what the Socialist Party was doing or with what it wanted to say, and therefore, they set themselves there. Or all the environmental tax measures we've been carrying out. And now we're on. We're still on this line – we're still on this line. Measures in environmental taxes that you are in the State since June 2018 could have withdrawn some resources that the PP presented before the Constitutional Court and that you, your Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, did not withdraw. And from here, he takes over the statements of the head of the United Nations of extreme poverty and says: "Clearly, it is that, tax cuts... Listen to me, tax cuts, in everything that has been the responsibility of this government and also of the governments that preceded me in those that we have actively participated in fiscal policy, absolutely not one. Well, an exception – an exception – I recognize it, because then someone will bring it: the down payment on the game that you voted for, that you voted for. Therefore, no lesson – no lesson, no lesson – of tax reductions. Like... a little intellectual honesty, which I think we can hold. It can't be said that nothing happened in poor children when a guaranteed income of citizenship was applied, that even with a presuppositional prorogation, because you didn't want to approve the premise, we managed to get resources, through the contingency fund, and through the generation of expenditure that allowed us to make our entrances. Because it is, if not, the guaranteed income of citizenship, a policy also against the poor child. In fact, you have said this in the debates about guaranteed citizenship income here, because precisely the calculation of which is the benefit that is given to each holder is dependent on the family unit. Therefore, what if not a policy against the poor child of compaction, of benefits, that you have asked for. The problem is that when you ask and the other women – that asking is easy, making it harder – of course, their relationship is unravelled. Then they have to look for some excuses, such as the famous health presupposition, which everyone knows—everybody knows—the difference between an initial presupposition and an executed presupposition. Everybody knows. And you know that the initial assumption that is expected of Salvation here will increase by hundreds of millions from here to the end of the year. As you've done every year – as you've done every year. Therefore, I think we must also have a little honesty in the speeches in this area. And he made reference to the temporal Gloria. For the moment the only contributions we know of the temporary Gloria, the 10_millions that has announced Agriculture, the three_millions in intervention of infrastructures that yesterday approved the Government and the declaration of emergence of works to rebuild to that which the temporal affected. And this was done by the great government of which you are a part and which you were able to prove in situ, on the ground – five hundred meters up with a helicopter – what were the damages of the storm? No, this government did it. Because it's our obligation, because it's our obligation, and because we assume our responsibilities. And obviously, for example, in areas such as knowledge, research policy, obviously there have been increases. They cannot come to say: "There have been no increases. Well, the 126_million increment is not an increment. So obviously – obviously – it's an increase in research. Or the drop in university fees; a 30_per_cent reduction that has been voted on many times, and you say: "You didn't vote for them. Because we, man, are used to voting for what can be completed; now we are willing to complete, so obviously we are now incorporating it. Because proposing it here is free, the opportunity cost of taking these resources is what is complicated, and we, as we like to transform reality, take on complicated things. 911_million euros going to universities. Therefore, a sufficient – sufficient – higher increment, when the assumption of universities was around 800_million euros. And we still want more, and we still want absolutely more. It's about technical work. He said: "You have to make an assessment. You have to evaluate and analyze the expense, and therefore, review it. I look at the technical work, which is precisely intended for the evaluation of public policies, which we charge from the Department of Vice-President and Economics and History in Ivàlua, because it completes these evaluation processes with the Expenditure Review Program – unique to the State, the only spending review that has been made in the State by the Government of the Generality of Catalonia – and introducing the evaluation into the culture of decision making. Certainly, when some proposals are put forward in this Parliament, as long as the assessment is called for by the Government, I also believe that it would be appropriate to take into account evaluation processes to take decisions in the Parliament of Catalonia by certain opposition groups, then certainly serious proposals..., some others. The tax fraud. Clearly, of the tax fraud, you say: "It is not that you focus on the tax fraud. Well, so this 2019 we have raised a tax fraud of 203_million euros; fiscal year 2019 – fiscal year 2019. What else can we do? Yeah. We could do more in the realm of the heritage tax if we could have data, not to spy on the citizenry, no, no, to detect the defrauders who have good at alienation and who do not declare. And who doesn't give us this data? You must already know the answer: the State Tax Administration Agency, which is dedicated to contesting electronic sub-hastes, to having time for this, but not to pass the data so that we can do the inspection in tax of assets that you claim from us here – which you claim from us here. Therefore, I think it is clear who our commitment to the fight against tax fraud has been, and it is very clear the balance of the fight against tax fraud, that from 2015 to 2018 there have been 740_million euros in the discovery, of taxes that we manage – that we manage. Speaking of taxes, which had left me a Ciutadans thing, of course, you say: "IRPF is overestimated; VAT is overestimated. Look at the assumptions of the Junta d'Andalusia, de Múrcia, de Madrid and see – see – that the data source to know which share of IRPF and VAT is the same as ours: the Ministry of Hisenda. Therefore, we, the one we incorporate here, are not esteems, but are the data that the Ministry of Heritage communicates to all governments like ours, as to which you govern; therefore, now you can no longer say... the excuse is that we have not ruled. Well, you can say the excuse at the municipal level in Catalonia, but they're ruling autonomous communities, so that's what you should know. So, if we've overestimated you, go where you're ruling, too. I, with that it's not like that, so it's obvious that we're not, either, in any case. After that, the People's Party... I will finally enter the Popular Unity Candidacy, because I understand that there are some aspects that are different from their position with respect to the rest of the groups, as it is logical, as it cannot be in any other way. Says the People's Party: "Well, these assumptions, when you get the 2030 bubble, sustainable development goals, are the same assumptions as 2017. Home, with a difference of 3,000_millions, which for me is no less. Maybe it is for you. And it's no less for public workers, who make it possible to guarantee adequate remuneration and wage recovery; it's no less for the law of dependency, which improves this year in more than 92_million euros our contribution, which we certainly had to face up to alone increases, because when you were ruling in the State, happily not now, you were the ones who detailed the state's contributions to the law of dependency. They are not minors, for the deployment of guaranteed income of citizens, that you voted in this Parliament, but then they let us only manage ourselves. So they're not the same, they're not the same; they're good, they're better, because they have 3,000 million more euros. You also question the forecasts and refer to the annual growth rate of GDP in the fourth quarter of the 1.8. So let's just say, the one on the 2019-year conjunction, which is what I'm referring to when you're looking for what the whole year's growth is, it's 2_per_cent. Therefore, we are making correct forecasts, not optimistic over-forecasts. And then, in your complaint, you didn't use the question of delegations abroad, because, of course, you saw that the important increase in the field of outsiders is in Development Cooperation. And you're going to tell us that there's a subsidy to the High Commission... is it saying that the United Nations Committee on Arbitrary Detention is allowed to bribe? Don't you? All right, so, I think it's good that I clarified it, because I think that from this farish, therefore, questioning the impartiality of certain international organizations dependent on United Nations, go..., wouldn't really help them, to their party. In any case, you have also questioned the Court of Justice of the European Union. Anyway, they'd follow an ascending line, huh? From Madrid to heaven, let them give them. And then he tried to counter, with a certain manicism that I think is not fair, the model of school agreed with the elimination of barracks, as if one thing were to change from another; as if to sort between applying a pact against school segregation that they signed not only the set of entities linked to the field of public school, but also the employers of the school agreed, and that now the Department of Education is applying, is coming to an end, making available to all sectors, and obviously it will work with the will of consent that already exists in the same Pact against school segregation. And, of course, we have a clear, clear commitment in this planning to reduce the barracks in our country. Obviously, he's absolutely clear. Finally, the Popular Unity Candidate has begun making a more general introduction about the strategic differences that there may be in the path to independence between you and me – I already assume them, we do, yes. We do not want to dispense with objective conditions, and objective conditions are there. Therefore, making them see that they do not exist could lead to the contradiction of asking for disobedience in a chamber and obeying it in a municipal ple. And since I don't think this would be anybody's will to end up doing this, I think we need to recognize that there are objective conditions that we need to be able to overcome. To see that they do not exist does not eliminate them; to cover our eyes before a few folds, which are very large, does not cause these folds to disappear or to sun them, but to look at them made, knowing what are the conditions we have in front and who are the ones we have to generate in order to win. And this we believe is our strategy; if we do not do what can be so profitable electorally, in short, that he said: "Let us rise up and disobey. No, no. This didn't go so, didn't load, did the proof charge against the other. In any case, we will reiterate our willingness to agree with you. And if you want to add in favour of the proposals, in favour of presenting alternatives, that you have not presented any... You have been very critical, very thorough, and, even so, in some respects, I already assume, that these assumptions are not perfect, because the world is not perfect, and because obviously we still have to build much more to win, and because in the end they are the assumptions of a government that manages in an autonomous legal and political framework, with a Constitution that has been interpreted as interpreted, and in the framework of a Europe that has aspired for austerity policies that end up also detailing rights and freedoms. So, assuming that, I already do, but I need to propose alternatives, because giving up fighting is not a possibility. Renunciation to transform reality, from all areas of responsibility, is not – it is not – an option that we have on the table. We will not give up, and that is what we understand when we call on responsibility to transform things to improve them – neither that it is a little bit, nor that it is a little gram, nor that it is a centimeter – respect how we have found ourselves. Don't let go of Cap Trinxera. Between holding and not holding, having assumptions; between doing and not doing anything, making policies in favor of the citizenry. He says: "If in education I did not go wrong...; I think I did, with all respect, that it went wrong, because these assumptions make a clear bet for education throughout its cycle. Recovery of the zero-three, they may say: "It is very little and therefore we do not want it. So look, it's little, 70 million euros, little for zero-three, that we want you to be much more powerful, but better than anything. So we think it's worth it. The inclusive school: a clear contribution with the contract of teachers, with the contract of technicians in education, of educators, of logopeds, of professionals in all fields... It is a clear bet to guarantee, precisely, the equality of opportunities according to the diversity that we have in the classrooms, according to the diversity that we have in the classrooms... And the drop in university taxes: that drop in university taxes that brings you to give support to occupations in the Department of Economics and that, when it is produced, you mutate! No, no, listen'm, now they have the opportunity to vote it. If this assumption, if you triumph over your speech to totality, the year you see there will not be a drop of thirty_per_cent of university fees. By lot – by lot – we will have a support to overcome these totalities. I suppose you're against the assumptions, against forcing negotiations with the state... in any case, we don't give up anything. And there's an increase in resources that you can't deny. When they say these assumptions... And then we get to the part of the debt, because the discursive trap was elegant, but we hunted it down, huh? You say that these assumptions do not help people... Increase the guaranteed income of citizenship, or do not increase – or does not increase? Increment in dependence, 92_million: what do we want to be more? Yeah, they make proposals with high and low to see where we're going with them. Increment respects the policies of attention to minors and minors without family references; or do we want to leave them unsavory? If I'm convinced everyone's saying no, but resources have to be put in there and something has to be done. Wage increases in the public sphere: how many times have you also defended here the recovery of foreign payments? and will vote against the assumption that incorporates them. I think it's important coherence. I was told "austericida. I do not know, I ask Foment del Treball, who tells me confiscateurs; I suppose that the virtue is in the middle, in this case, not one thing or the other: neither austerid nor confiscateurs, transform the reality. I will not stay at all knowing that I have no contradiction, because we have contradictions. Joan Fuster said: "Our contradictions are our hopes. And, as I have many, many hopes, so I also have many contradictions, because who does not change reality has no contradiction. And then, about the debt. They say: "The departure of the deuteronomy is very good; certainly. He says: "And, in fact, this makes the money to go to salvation, to teaching, vagina to pay the debt; false. Because all this debt that has to be depreciated is auto-refine. There is neither a euro – nor a euro – that comes from tributes, that comes from recapitation, that is destined for debt depreciation. Neither a single euro nor a single euro; absolute refinancing of the debt, which we have contained in its growth, respects the gross domestic product. And a big contradiction: you can't defend yourself at the same time skip the deficit targets and charge against the debt; it's a contradiction, it's like going to a bank and saying you don't pay the mortgage but you have to be forced to leave a credit for the car; that's exactly how it is. So either one thing or the other – or one thing or the other. Therefore, today we have attended a debate on the totality that I believe proves that the approaches that have been put on the table to reject these assumptions, from my point of view, are not coherent, do not serve us to face the objective that we have. And I make them all a new cry that now, when they have to position themselves, is removed from the totality. I think we have the opportunity – a cry is probably nothing, we have not made many at the length of our lives – but a cry that we understand – beyond the differences that we may have in the different political projects that we defend across the country – we must not give up, in any case, we must not give up on improving reality. These assumptions – these assumptions – are not my ideal assumptions. I am an independentist, a person of the left, and I believe that the best assumptions – the best assumptions – that we could take seriously those of a Catalonia independent with adequate taxation, also at European level, I absolutely consider. But we don't think of giving up a single opportunity for the day to day of our lives, our lives, our lives, our families, our friends, the people who share life in these territories, in these lands with us, better. And since we do not give up, we ask that these assumptions be taken, that we withdraw the papers to the totality and that we all put ourselves to the work, which is good for the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.159.0	Thank you, Vice President. As with this turn via 86.5, turn and, according to the duration of his intervention, open a turn of two minutes for the leading parliamentary groups, and five minutes for the subgroup, correspondingly. Therefore, in the first place there is the word, if so desired, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, for a period of two minutes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.160.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, in order not to pass assumptions in three years you came strong, huh? , to make the reply. Follow him, so good you don't have to be, these assumptions. Look, you bring many years to politics, don't you? I remember with that sign – talking about ideology. Remember, you, from that sign, young man, who said, "Every second that goes by," don't you? « Espanya robs us... – what were they? , 400_million euros or something? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Four hundred and sixty, eren. So, this is the summary of his ideology, isn't it? And the one who explained it to us here at these times. Because I could also grab a folder of these and say: "Mr. Aragones wants to steal me every year four hundred euros. Why? Because I, like Spanish, pay my taxes for the whole of Spanish, and you want to keep my taxes... and the rest of Spanish. Therefore, it could perfectly serve this sign of "Spain steals from us. I gave them something else. When you were talking, I thought you were much more supportive. In the end, what you're telling me is that you... this solidarity is returning to international aid. So it's confirming my reasoning. What you're looking for is to raise a border and have international relations. How much do you devote to international external action? What are they, 31 million euros, the ones you dedicate to it? You make some very grand speeches, the fruit of your experience, but you know that I like to go to the most..., touch from few to the ground. I think he's more adept. So I'll give him a few figures. You are devoting EUR 643_million in this budget to ICT solutions through the ITTCs, EUR 60_million to institutional advertising, EUR 7_million, as you said well, to external delegations..., that the problem of external delegations is not that they do..., say, they intend to achieve investments; the problem of external delegations is that they are dedicated to something else. And, as I said in my intervention, they are not transparent people; they are not accountable to this Parliament. How long has it been since the delegates came to Parliament? And why so long ago? That there are no communications, there are no planes, so you can come here to Parliament? I think they can pass. My partner Susana Beltrán asks you for the information and you don't give it. This is not an advanced country, as you say; this is a lack of transparency. Why don't they give us this information, if it's so transparent? If these foreign delegations are dedicated to what they have to do, to do action, to look for investments, to work for the Catalan economy, why don't they come to this Parliament and give us this information? [[Greetings.]] They don't. And it was very easy. Then, what we've found here is that today we've announced that we're going to have more years to go. If I didn't get it wrong, you told me that now the goal is 2030. Is that right? In his intervention he said: "Now we have to make the path with a 2030 goal. This means that neither with a month, nor with a year, nor with five years, we now have another goal, 2030, and I mean, from another band, that what we're going to do is stand up to this situation for two more years. And you were talking about an ideology, that I had an ideological problem. No, no, I have a problem with insolidarity, I have a problem with selfish people, with insolidarities and those who make this propaganda. That we don't have a democracy in Spain? That we don't form a unit of decision? That we don't have shared values of freedom, justice, equality? Why is he jumping, you? Can't you tell the Congress? Don't you have representatives at the Congress? We have to think that more than 90_percent of the laws – or 95_percent of the laws – that have approved here in Spain have also approved them for..., above all Convergence. You also made reference when you said about your bird, didn't you? , what did your bird say – what was the expression that served? –: "Whoever leaves and distributes gets the best part. I say, "Tate! Mr. Aragonese will now speak of the 3_per_cent [[applause]] , which were precisely those who left and shared i, sense dubte, were left with the best part. And today we are critical of our government, but who are you ruling with? With the most radical left? Together for Catalonia or the old Convergence, what is it? What is it, the GNP? What is it, Bildu? What is it? What are they? Progressives, as you say? And when they say the term "progressive" it seems that we want to go back. I don't think anyone wants to go back; everyone's progressive. What are they? Because it makes you... that you normally do what you do is try to do as a personal attack or an attack on my party when you intervene. But this won't win..., with this won't win king; don't win absolutely king. Because the message we are giving him is that here in Catalonia we have a very rich land, a very plural land; it is a land where everyone does their work, with a very good economy, where economic agents do their work – and I said it to them – where they do their work, where the locals do their work, the locals do their work, the citizens do their work. But those who don't do their job are you. [[Greetings.]] You're the ones who don't do their job. And this reflection is unable to do it – it is unable to do it. You always say I'm attacking or our group is attacking the economy. No – no, no. Miri, Miri, who is attacking the economy, who is not defending the economy, who is not defending your lives are you, not us. That is why we have a problem with this ideology which you have and which, from the point of view, I would say, above all solidarity, is not justifiable. Then I said that you with taxes didn't charge the middle and working class. But what taxes do they charge? The IRPF. What does the IRPF charge? You make them work; you make them work the one that they burn. So, it's working class. We're not talking about big estates. You're the one who's focused on doing the job. We agree that it has to be progressive, that who more earns more taxes has to pay, but touch the returns of the work. If that person worked with that son for a year, you pushed his taxes. If from here this person is stuck, more than half of the taxes on his tickets are left you. I don't get it. And he won a year, just. Then, on the other hand, when we talk about the tax that you always pass from tips, which is the inheritance tax, here it will coincide with me that it also affects the middle class and working class. Whoever has a couple, a son who has inherited a building or an apartment from his parents – which is the apartment that they have managed to make based on their efforts and their students in a long life – this person, with this change that they have made with the commons – because obviously for the commons whatever is rich; or, I don't know if they have created many businesses, if they have paid many numbers and a lot of social security, because it seems to me that not all are wealthy – this person will start paying taxes, which he didn't do before. And the assets, the great assets, don't come from that, they have other structures to avoid paying taxes. And in the end what they do is leave Catalonia. And this lack of fiscal competitiveness what it does is that, in the end, what we are destroying rich, and that people don't come to work here, and that talent doesn't come to work here, because it's punished. And this effort is not able, the Generality, and you as vice president, to put it in value. And he speaks with a lot of frivolity, because he spoke with us with a lot of frivolity. But this isn't frivolous, it's very important too, okay? And then he was also talking to us, on the other hand, about not going to the Tax and Finance Policy Council because it's not decided. But it's that if it's not impossible, it's a king's decision. What's his... what's your defense of the self-financing program? They don't know. Because, maybe, if you explain it to us, maybe we can help each other and defend this new funding system. Or won't? Calculate the tax balances. I never asked him to calculate the tax balances, I did what I did was put him in contradiction. You ask for the tax balances with the rest of Spain, but do not calculate the tax balances inside Catalonia. Why? Because they know they're the same, they have the same result: the ones who have the most have taxes. And this happens here, it happens in Barcelona, as I said, and it happens with Madrid and Balears. And our financing system is a better system, but it is not justified by this constant and permanent weighting that you are constantly explaining to us. It's not like that – it's not like that. And you know better than I do, because it's who's carrying the numbers of the Generality. The one who passes, who doesn't care– he doesn't care. So I'm the one who's asking for them is the center. These assumptions don't help to fix inequalities, which is the most important thing, because there is for the least of all this misappropriation that I gave him, all this spending on things that don't touch, and they can get better, and that's the best that would make the Catalan citizens look better. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.161.0	It has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.162.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President, again. A few things I'd like to reply to you that you've commented on. On the negotiation of the assumptions, you will want to say what you want, but Mr.Iceta extended his hand sincerely in July; you said: "On August 23, the spokesman... On August 23, the spokesman did not say that you renounced his principles. That's what the PSC has never said, nor will it ever say. It is legitimate for you to think what you think or believe in independence. What he said was that what was difficult was to negotiate with a government that wanted to confront the State in the way President Torra said during the month of August at a conference. But, anyway, on September 3rd, Congressman Ordeig and I were at a meeting in the Vice-President's office. We were at a meeting where the presuppostari march was to be presented. We were there two hours, talking about a lot of things, and we said, "So close to her. But the next one didn't make it. If it was true what you said on August 23rd, we didn't go on September 3rd, and we went there. Because we're always willing to listen and talk. The one that passes, that you have not returned to the table. And that, Vice President Aragones, you should explain to us why you don't want to. Did you want the common ones? I'm stupendous. Has he started a negotiation with them? I'm stupendous. But now you're not going to join us after five months of negotiating with them when we discovered the assumptions at the same time as the journalists. Look, listen, this presupposition, analyzed, we don't like it. Perhaps, if we could negotiate it or have incorporated things into it, as the commons have done, so another gall would sing, but we are not in this situation. Therefore, you, who are the abandorate of the dialog, did not want to dialogue with us, and nothing happens. It's better to recognize him. Miri, he didn't want to talk to the state in this case, and I'm talking about the Tax and Finance Policy Council. Yes! - that makes that face. Yes, because you say, "We go there, we do not paint a king. Well, I saw the minutes of the meeting, and he said: "So many votes in favour, so many votes against. And then he says, "It's the same, because what's worth is the minister's. Well, it's not that important to have a dialogue... – the other day, Vice President Junqueras said – it's so important to have a dialogue at the table, to talk. Dialogue, why? To negotiate. Negotiating, why? To reach agreements, or not, that you sometimes negotiate and don't come to agreements. That's what my president Miquel Iceta says, isn't it? Listen, the first thing is to talk, talk; then we try to negotiate, and then we see if we reach agreement. We haven't done this, it hasn't happened, here, with the assumptions, and it doesn't happen either in the Fiscal and Finance Policy Council, where I think your view, strict and serious, would be very good to listen to, among other things because it represents all the Catalans. And you say I'm all set on the rear-view mirror. But if the rear-view mirror hasn't been put on us, if the rear-view mirror has been put on you: the day that came to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to present the assumptions makes the comparison with 2010. It's like, you compare it to 2010, because... it's true, we think they were good assumptions, and they're trying to get closer, so to see that, too, right? , to prove that this is also 2020; it happens that, in most comparisons, I already tell you that you are losing, and then I will refer you back to it. On tax reform. Jo... I know it's hard, Vice President, but since 2010, the IRPF hasn't been played. That's right, they've had to pass for years because it's IRPF's touch. And what happened in these two years? So basically the negotiation has now had to do with a left-wing party that forced it. And I'm saying this because 2017 negotiated the assumptions with the CUP and they didn't get this tax reform, they got it now with the commons. In any case, you will say what you want, the documents of the Republican Left will say what you want, but you have been able to..., not to say Mr Pere Aragonès, to say « Republican Left, which since 2013 carries an incidence in the important government, and did not modify the IRPF. And of successions there was a small modification in 2013 and now there is an important modification, according to what you plant, of 200_million euros. Right now. For he says, "No, we have changed many things. Home, yes, sugar beguds; home, 6_million euros. Welcome to 6_million euros, but, well, it's not a big change. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, listen, I use your data, huh? 6:37 to be more accurate, right? That's to say... In tourist establishments, well, they collected 10_million euros – welcome continues –; now, 13. Well, I mean they've done... they've done you, they've created taxes that generate a small recap, that's not bad... that we've voted in favour of bank deposits, we've voted in favour of sugary drunks. Listen to me, look if he's found responsibility in the PSC in many things. But the recap is small. Where there's a bulk of recap was in succession, especially, and so far they haven't wanted to modify it. Well, I'm just saying that, Vice President. In the end, data and information, so that's what's good. I won't let it – I won't let it – say here, you, a sip, eh? , of course, of course..., and Romero, that she is neither the tallest, nor the prettiest, nor the prettiest, stayed ill. No, no, Because in your department, you say... no, because what you told me about 1.819,000 is what we do for public policy evaluation. So, no. To the evaluation of public policies you dedicate 660,000_euros. Stupendous, there they are. But, in the band, the band of these 660, there are 1,808,000_euros dedicated to technical work, but not only to the Department of Economy, to the department of Lady Chacón. Because, I'm telling you, we'll put in a lot of papers, Vice President, because we have proposals, a lot of them. And, in fact, PRs and interpellations present us very many, that is to say that the PSC, proposals..., if anything has the PSC are proposals. So, well, we'll do a lot of tests, and to do the tests, like they have to be high and low, because now we have to be more responsible, with that change in the Rules that was done, so let's go look for bass – and don't touch things that aren't to be touched, huh? That's what we're giving it to you, and we're not bringing it to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you, to you. But, of course, it's also in the department of Constellera Chacón that we have nearly €6 million in technical work. And I'm already saying, it's not that the sum does 6_million euros, it's that we've left some things, because we understand that it's true that they're going to take care of things outside, some studies, reports. Okay. But they're only bringing in a share we've already got 6_million euros. That is to say, it is clear that there has been a possibility of detailing, among other things, because, now, I remember the Member of Parliament, Mrs Granados, my spokesman, who says: "Well, besides, so much to charge things out generates a lack of self-esteem also in the very functioning ones that are working. Well, I don't know if we're going to charge so many things out when they end up asking the same question about things. So, I don't know, we could cut a little bit here. I mean, no, I don't want to fool around with the ciphers. And on the tax fraud: forward. If we want no tax fraud, and therefore continue to work from the tax agency, then that's what it is. Now, there's another tax fraud that the Spanish Tax Agency needs. You know that we claim, from the time that the State was approved, the creation of the tax consortia, which is referred to in Article 204 of our Statute. You have always voted against us, in this case always against us – always against us. Well, maybe if you had this mixed consortium between the Generality and the State, we could be attacking the tax fraud, because we'd have the information. As you say: "No, when we are independent we will already do, well, therefore, listen, as we do not know whether it will be 2030 or 2040 or 2050, maybe we could work together in this consortium, which would allow them to have all these data. Listen, you say, about solidarity, that we are so solidarity. Much solidarity, but less than 2010. Because 2020 will put forward 30_million euros for development cooperation, and 2010 there were 38. Well, now we're at 0.2, before we were at 0.43. If we had gone up, we might have reached 0.7. And of course, between malnutrition and starvation, well, entities sort malnutrition – that's not consensus, that's survival. I say this because, too, "entities..., of course, entities, so look, if you push them a little, so enchanted, but the situation we have is this. Miri, I don't allow it – and now I'm gonna be a little tough, huh? – oysters, the answer that has given us about poor children. I'm supposed to bring Congressman Moreno down here, who knows about it, and I don't. But you can't say that she will solve the poor child with a benefit. But, listen to me, that's not how it went, among other things because the guaranteed citizenship income, the law was approved three and a half years ago. It's been three years and a half since we've been waiting for a settlement. And, of all the poor people who suffer, do you know how many people demand guaranteed income? A 1.9. Among other things, because there is no rule, because you pose a cross, yes, because they are difficult to do so. How do you want a performance that calls for a 1.9 solve the structural poor we have in this country, much above the Spanish middle class? Jo, honestly, I'm mouthed with his answer. There is a need for a firm, cross-cutting compromise of many departments. Miri, today – and not to repeat and put in the mouth of Pedro Sánchez an answer – to Pablo Iglesias, who today would have applauded the car [[remorse of the voice]] They asked him a question, the PP, about the 2030 Agenda. And he said that he is creating an interdepartmental commission, because he is fighting against the extreme poor..., that he put on the table this UN report, that makes them ashamed, and he said so: "It makes us ashamed, and so we have created an interdepartmental commission to see which policies can be transversal from all departments. So that's what you would want, a little..., an honesty, to say: "Host, yes, they are shameful – shameful; and we – you and I have little children –, "Host..., I, really, this is a bully. Therefore, neither the guaranteed income will solve it, nor..., or, listen, the resources they have put in schools, so that they will not care for more children or families and we will see if they pay debts or we will see if it is 1,600 or 1,300 or 1,000; it is to say that, listen, no, a little serious. And I could talk to him about more things. Well, college stuff. Well, I'll give him the interview they did to the rector of the URV, because he says that out of 129, as I say, net, we, in 16 are, the rest are to consolidate, basically, Chapter 1. And university taxes, which have gone down because the common ones have asked for them. That is to say, Mr Aragones, it is a very disappointing assumption, very unsatisfactory, and not in a country like Catalonia, which wants to be modern, cohesive, etc. And, therefore, we, sincerely, either accept some of the points that we are going to table, which we will put to it many, because we, the others, have proposals, or else we will continue with this vote against the assumptions that they are going to put to us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.163.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.164.0	Well, counselor, you've come to pull topics from the CUP, haven't you? The no CUP, the utopian CUP, that CUP that doesn't have proposals... the anti-capitalists... that people, right? But, really, we do have an alternative, we do have proposals; we have proposals and, therefore, we will submit papers to the joint. You told us to charge against the debt, didn't you? We don't charge against debt, we charge against depreciation. And this argument that you use to make sure that the recap money doesn't go to depreciation, so it breaks with a basic principle that should complete any assumption of an institution, which is the one-size-fits-all principle. And, for another band, what's clear and what's obvious is that, according to the previous assumption, it was allocated 7,100_million to the debt, and this year, 9,600. What's the reason for this debt? Have the public service conditions improved? Education, sanitation, social services? So, look, we haven't seen this. In any case, we have seen inversions of general interest, for which this government and previous governments have been indebted. You have spoken to us about objective conditions, and yes, for us, the material conditions of life of the people are also objective conditions to take into account. And these assumptions, according to our opinion – despite that to you anyone who disagrees with these assumptions seems irresponsible – so they are not assumptions that respond to popular demands. And we'll prove it. Miri, in education, you told us about education. So, look, in education what you've done is fulfill the commitments you made with the CUP in 2017, for a band. For another band, they have increased the places of teachers depending on demand. Why? So for the demographic changes. This was said to be a trend expense – he tried to explain it before, and now you have given me the opportunity to do so with a concrete example. To reverse the shortcuts, you should stop closing P3 and P4 classrooms, you should recover the pre-retail lectural schedule, you should also recover the schedule of the more than fifty-five year olds or you should decrease the rates, but this does not happen. You keep things as we know them today. Look, when this legislature started, we made a lot of proposals to them. We made proposals to them, because this government worked to suppress educational concerts that secrete by sex. We made proposals for a planning, a timing and an execution of educational needs. We asked them to work to convert the ICF into the public bank; to dignify the health system; to guarantee a minimum wage to outsourced workers of 1,200_euros. We also talked about developing a campaign, together with the Labour Inspectorate, to match the subs between men and women. We also talked about the Government withdrawing certain particular charges. We were also talking about increasing the public housing park. The president was there; you weren't, but the president was there, and we agreed on many of these measures. But you haven't completed one. They've done absolutely the opposite. Do you think that we've come up against a government that takes steps towards self-determination and that what it does is respond to people's social needs? We did not position ourselves against this model, but, despite these minor petitions, despite these petitions which were thus practically social-democratic, which you could have perfectly accepted, we have seen that this Government has decided to maintain the same policies that it has already done. And, look, we will continue to work in this sense, and that is why we will present papers to the joint, in defense of the territory, in defense of the climate, in defense of the ecosystems, in defense of the social and labor rights, in defense of the public services, to implement feminist policies, to fight corruption and to walk in defense of self-determination and civil and political rights. See if this 0.2 that the State has given him will be used for this or not. For another band, yes, we understand what the limits are to what an autonomous government has to face in order to manage some assumptions. We know perfectly well what the objectives of stability are, and we know more, where we govern and assume responsibilities of government, in many municipalities, so we have to stretch the margins of the legal and political framework in order to be able to put pieces to existing social needs. And precisely because of that, precisely because we know that these institutions are incapable of giving out the popular demands of the people, so we believe that this country needs a shared social and national horizon, and not these assumptions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.165.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on this occasion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.166.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, to point out some aspects of what you have answered to us, haven't you? First of all, I do not know exactly how I have done to link guaranteed income, our vote in favour with the approval of guaranteed income – which did not have it in the later modification, if that of the Government – with the Law of Dependence. But remember them, once more... – you know perfectly well, but you will repeat it until the satiety by plane if that's what we have left of it – you know perfectly well that the financing of the Law of Dependence on the part of the State goes for two – two – lives. One, directly through the Imserso, which is the only one that counts for you, and which effectively represents 17_percent of the expense of dependence. And the second way is through the financing model, which covers up to the remaining 50_per_cent. Therefore, this is the contribution of the State. You continue to reiterate the lack of funding by the State. The State completes – the State completes. Li can demand more? Do we have to ask for more? Listen, we've always said, whatever's more, welcome, because it's going to benefit the addicts, but don't repeat the mantra that the state doesn't finance dependence, because it's not true. They're getting funding for the two lives I've been telling them about. Second question. He questions the data I give him on growth in the year 2019 and tells me it's June. What do you want me to say? I understand that. I gave him the 1.8_per_cent; it's the advance that the Fourth Quarter Idecat gives, and it's year-on-year. So, I'm not absolutely inventing anything given and the data from Spain are the same ones that Idescat publishes – official fonts and that depend on your department, aren't they? So, that's the question. Third element. I've talked to you – and you've done an important morning that each of you will interpret as you wish – about donations in cooperation resources to the High Commission on Human Rights. And you told me about the donations to the Arbitrary Detention Task Force. Well, you'll know why you told me that, that's who actually did the opinion. You'll know why they donate to the Arbitrary Detention Work Group. You said so. Another element. He says to me: "It is that the barracks and the concert school have nothing to see. No, I told you, the one I wanted to pass on to you is: to stop talking about barracks, we pose the "dispute to the agreed schools. And that's what you're doing, putting "the mess to the agreed choices, and like the mess is much bigger than the one in the barracks, this will help you to close the problem in the barracks. But what I criticise are the two things: one, that they do the "fight with the agreed schools; two, that they do not solve the problem of the barracks; that they do not resolve it, for more plans that they present with the objective of reducing the barracks in seven years. We have a law proposal to reduce them too. We would ask that Parliament act actively before the end of the legislature, because, at least, it is obliged for it to remove the barracks, and we are willing to negotiate the terms, but at least it acquires this commitment. Now, listen to me, look, with regard to the theme of the concerted school, which I proposed to Esquerra Republicana, I understand; that they support the group of commons, I understand. Now, what we haven't just heard is that I support the members of the PDCUP! Hey, sorry about the PDECAT! [[Rialles and some applause.]] That's what we can't hear. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, when we vote whether or not to ratify this decree, we will ask these Members to act accordingly and to vote against this government decree. I finish – two things, if they give in time –, I finish. I know you don't, do you? And they didn't actually vote for it in Congress. Do not accept octopus with pet. I mean, I don't accept a 2_per_cent debt – I don't accept a 2_per_cent debt – to change the 443_millions of VAT. I don't accept it. Unlike the Socialist Party, which is what I voted against in the Congress, and obviously in the Podemos Group, which is what I voted for in the Congress, they do not accept to spend more on the exchange of money to come to the Generality of Catalonia. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done. The problem with these assumptions is nothing more than spending – because I have already said it, effectively, you spend more, 3,000_million more – is spending badly. Specifically, on this assumption, they spend 3,000_millions more badly than the year 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.167.0	Thank you, Congressman. Once these turns are finished, it would now be a turn against. Therefore, ask some of the parliamentary groups if they want to use this back against. [[J. Lluís Saved and Tenesa asks to speak.]] Yeah? So on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Congressman Lluís Saved has the word. When he wants to. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.168.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, advisors and advisors, deputies, deputies, very late everyone. Well, once we're over the line, it seems like we're taking a little bit of debate, but in any case, I would try to avoid getting into the line and, therefore, making a more explicit position on the part of our parliamentary group, but I no longer commit myself and assume that I won't be able to escape the rush to get into some replica of some of the questions that have been raised. Well, in any case, start saying that about three years ago, on the 16th of February of 2017, this Parliament was bringing to an end a very similar session to which we are making today; it is debating the reviews to the totality of what were the assumptions of 2017. Three years ago, unfortunately, it was the last time we approved some assumptions in this Parliament. And I was commenting earlier, this morning I was commenting on Vice President Aragonès who has been three years of exceptionality, they have been three years very, very complicated, and it's good to remember, because it seems, as yesterday pointed out and asked some deputy of this chamber... that had passed 2019. So look, 2019, 2018 and 2017, in this country have brought to an end the most important episodes of political repression of the last forty years in Western Europe, and it is not short; the repression has ended to thousands of citizens who have tried to vote on October 1st and to try to vote against the most important repression of the last decades. The self-government of Catalonia has been suspected. An important part of the government has undertaken, and the rest is in exile. He went to work a few days after he had... a few days before he had voted in this Parliament as president of Turull's company. We've got a current president disabled. We have drawings of public offices of the Government of Catalonia, of citizens with judicial cases opened by strictly political motives. And a few are surprised that during these last three years we have been on hold. To scandalous states and worry that during these last three years we have been in prorogation. We have experienced exceptional moments, which have not been absolutely normal, and of course, if today we have the opportunity or the fate of having the company, the friend, the vice president Oriol Aragonès – who, as you know, among many of his qualities, there is his historical perspective – we would remember... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oriol Junqueras. What did I say? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Rialles.]] The symbiosis is..., this symbiosis that perfectly develops the two vice presidents end up coming to the subconscious. If we had Vice President Oriol Junqueras here, I would surely remind us that this situation that we are patenting is not normal, but that unfortunately he has been accustomed to the history of our country, a history of a long struggle for the rights and freedoms of our country. These assumptions of 2017, like those of enguany, were the result of lengthy negotiations – at that time led by Vice-President Junqueras and by the current Vice-President, at that time Secretary of Economy, in Pere Aragonès – some negotiations that were brought to an end with the Parliamentary Group of the CUP and in which important, substantial contributions were brought to an end by the Members who were negotiating at that time: Deputy Salellas and Deputy Reguant. And these assumptions, such as those that we are beginning to debate today, if it is that the papers fall to totality, as we expect and expect, carry a symbol of social compromises, carry a symbol of environmental compromises, a compromise of public services and the productive economy on the part of the Government of Catalonia, and also on the part of parliamentary groups that support or presumably support these assumptions. And now there are also assumptions that grow responsibly and preserve the sustainability of public finances. And these 2017 assumptions, like today's, like the ones we're starting to process today, keep two constants. In the first place, the rigour, professionalism and excellence of the team of the Department of Economy and History, led by Vice President Aragonès, a team that has put us and brought us..., and we are accustomed to an absolutely professional, rigorous and extraordinary work. And second of all, there are assumptions that three years ago, like three years ago, they have a strong social commitment, a strong left-wing commitment. These assumptions, like today's, have been negotiated in left-wing parties, and that makes and marks a lot of the assumptions we have on the table today. Well, the past 20 generation– I make a leap in time–, Vice President Aragonès, if I recall correctly, Councilwoman Budó, the president of the parliamentary group of the commons, Ms.Jessica Albiach, made public a budgetary agreement– 20 generation. At the end of the nine-day period, the Catalan government already approved the assumptions. And, at the end of only seven days of ability after the agreement has been reached, we are already dealing in this Parliament with the issues to the full. But even as this has come to an end because today we can start working on these assumptions, as has also been said before by the vice president, we need to recognize all positions, which have placed it on these assumptions, all parliamentary groups have already taken hold of it. And as much as we can play a little bit to the cat and the rat, "if you called me and I didn't say I wanted to... at the end, we're still honest, at the end here we're manifesting ideological positions, strategic positions of each of our parties. And here today we are viewing four issues in the total of four parliamentary groups on one side, and three other groups that we have been able to conclude a comprehensive agreement on these 2020 assumptions. And surely today we will all justify our respective positions depending on the supposed bonds or the supposed defaults of the 2020 assumptions, but, as is obvious, the report at the end responds to this global strategy, and on the one hand we end up having the old block of 155 and on the other hand we end up having those sovereignist formations that share the will of the right to decide on the citizens of our country and the re-establishment of the judicial repression as a weapon against political dissent. And obviously among all, among the three parties that we will support these assumptions, there are many, many differences, but obviously there is a strategic position on which the future of our country should be, which obviously reflects the position that we will express today in these assumptions. And for the other side, too, before the vice president makes reference..., and it will allow me to have a certain discrepancy. She said that Mrs. Romero had not done any homework, no proposal. I'd like to kill him: he didn't do any. He did not do one that today did not express it very explicitly, as he did to the committees in which we had the opportunity to debate, which proposed that we should go to elections; that we should not deal with assumptions, that we should go to elections. It seems that he has a hurry..., manifested a hurry, little disguised, to recover a staple of deputies, a staple of escons, taking advantage of the predictable davalada of the Ciutadans Group. And in any case he has also made some other proposal; in fact, the proposal for more money for everything, more money for all the parties, more money for all the chapters of the assumption of the Government of Catalonia – then I will refer to it, because more money for all, equal to 9,000_millions of deficit. And on another side, he also made another proposal: "We are already implementing tax reform. So vote it. We already have it on the measuring bill, from here we'll have the opportunity to discuss it. Vote for it, and we will have the opportunity to have a tax reform that takes an important step forward. A small nuance that seems to me..., that I do not know if I have understood it properly: the tax on touristic establishments, presumably, will enter 74_million euros; it seems that the xifra that you pointed out is the increment that we applied enguany. Seventy-four million euros, the tax on tourist establishments. The tax on sugar beet, around 40_million euros. In environmental taxes, about EUR 140_million expected for this year's year in 2020. Little joke; they are already very important figures that come from some of the taxes that from this government and previous governments have been approved and that at these times allow to raise the expense of the Government of the Generality. In any case, as we say before, listen, elections can wait; the public servants of the country, no. And we remain honest and honest: not passing assumptions now means that there are no assumptions for 2020. The terms are who they are, and here we have to recognize them. Possibly face-to-face they can play some calendar game, but here we have to recognise: not to approve assumptions now means to give up having us assumptions for the year 2020. And the Catalonian schools, as we all seem to share, cannot face the next month of September – and here we have the councillor, surely we would ratify it – without the tools and without the resources that we bring these presuppositions, as our hospitals, healthcare, child care policies, dependency policies, our productive economy, our infrastructures, our police, our Bomber Cos, research, universities, children's schools, our pages and pages..., a collection that will dispose, from the tools of the 3,000_million euros additional that we will dispose of in these presuppositions, that will allow us to dispose of 1,400 meths, 5,400 meths, 1,400 meths. We resources for our public services, we resources that cannot wait until 2021 and that we need to apply immediately, as quickly as possible. Therefore, the elections and the party interests, let them band, try to face the response to the needs of the citizenry and approve some assumptions that allow us to take a step forward, which to some will seem small and to others will seem a little, a little bigger. Surely, as I said before, between all the parties that we are going to drop these items to totality, between all the parties that allow these assumptions to be processed, there are important political differences: in fiscal matters, in social matters, in economic matters. And I'm sure in the subsequent debate, during the measurement bill, we'll have the opportunity to debate items such as inheritance tax, which surely explains these differences. But, in short, here is the grace of politics, here is the grace of the possibility that each one gives way to reaching agreement. This morning – and the Vice-President Aragonès also repeated this: who does not take on contradictions is giving up the transformation of society; who does not accept negotiation and resigns is giving up the incorporation of better within the scope of the Government of the Generality and, in this concrete case, in the presuppositional sphere; who is not moving is giving up what is essential, that is taking steps towards building a more just and equal society, taking steps to improve from a consensus, to the widest possible extent, the life of the citizens of our country. And it's fair to recognize that the position of the Republican Left Parliamentary Group is the most comfortable, in these negotiations, and it's the most comfortable because we find a little in the middle, in a central position between the other two formations that have participated in these negotiations, and therefore it's fair to recognize the effort of cessation that they have made, the effort to find the point of fit there, and, in this sense, also to recognize the role that from the department, led by Vice President Aragonès, also led by his secretary general, Albert Castellanos, and the rest of his team members, have found this enabled to take place in the final positions between the positions. And, above all, we have joined, I believe it unites the three formations, the compromise in the governance of the main institutions of the country. Someone suggested that if this had been an interface between the Barcelona Assembly and the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State. You already know that this does not work so well, but so good that all the political formations that we take responsibility for the main institutions of our country would be able to find a dialog window, would be able to find a space to try to form part of the solutions – to try to form part of the solutions –, to separate and lower a period of high political crisis, where the parliamentary body is often more difficult, and that the differences are maximized, that it would be able to temporarily leave these differences, and that, as the President of the Republic of Catalonia is morning, by responsibility and by country, it is necessary to reach agreements, it is necessary to reach agreements, especially in the context of the budget. And one of the necessary elements to make assumptions is to share the initial diagnosis, to share the diagnosis about the economic and social situation of the country. And, as we have been able to listen, and we have listened on many occasions to the different economic commissions where we have carried out similar debates to which we are developing today, we have contrasted with very different diagnoses. For some, Catalonia lives in the middle of a catastrophic situation; for others, it seems to us that Catalonia is a space where it is very good, where companies have a space to develop their activity, to generate occupation, to generate wealth, and it is certain that, among all economic and social indicators, we find everything, like all the countries of the world. All countries in the world have indicators of social and economic characteristics that have low points. And Catalonia has low points, and we share some of the analyses that have been made by some Members and Members who have spoken. Catalonia has low points and we take them. And we have very strong points, and we need to strengthen them. And we don't know how to recognize it, because in the end, from sharing the diagnosis about where we leave, we are, of which are the weak points that our country has, they must allow us, from a parliamentary process, to put the emphasis, to strengthen those points where the country needs to improve. But in any case, if we really want to be part of the solution, we invite them to allow these assumptions to be dealt with, so that we can discuss the issues. If these assumptions fall today, this opportunity to share the diagnosis, to share the solutions, to discuss where more resources are needed, obviously, we will lose it and have a lost opportunity. But even these different diagnoses, it can hardly be obviated that, even after one of the most complex political contexts described above, after one of the toughest and most difficult episodes in our country's history, after one of the hardest economic crises in the world and especially in Western Europe, after all this, Catalonia, and its conjuncture and its economic and geographical space around it, has been able to chain important growths, and, in the concrete case of Catalonia, six years of sustained growth, balanced growth, much higher growth than the rest of the countries around us. And on the other hand, we're a long way from that scene of apocalyptic desolation drawn by Mr. Cano in each of his interventions. Look, before yesterday, the Financial Times recognized Catalonia, for the third year as a consequence – for the third year as a consequence – in the ranquing fDi as the best region in southern Europe to invest. We're not so bad. We are an important country, a country that has many opportunities and we have a lot of space for companies, for people, for citizens to live and live very well. And it's true that economic recovery, as Vice President Aragones also demonstrated this morning, has not reached all segments of the population. And it's good to recognize it and it's good to be very conscious: it hasn't reached all segments of the population. We still have Catalonia citizens, citizens, segments of the population who still suffer the consequences in unacceptable poor taxes, in a precarious labour and wage situation of an advanced society like ours, and especially in periods of expansion like what we have and what we are enjoying at this time. But in any case, this economic recovery has allowed us to improve certain strategic indicators in a very substantial way. In 2013, the tourist tax in Catalonia was 23.1_per_cent – 23.1. At these times we are at 10 and a half, it has been reduced to more than half, and Catalonia still has a tendency and ability to continue reducing this rate of atur, especially in the long-running atur segments, which have dropped from 12.2 in 2013 to the current 4_percent; from 12.2 to 4_percent. The growth rate between the young sectors has fallen to half. It's an economy, for another gang, every time more open. An economy that is currently exporting out of the Spanish State 65_percent of the products it exports, which it produces. We are drawing historical records in the number of companies that export regularly, with a balance with the foreigner 12.2_percent of gross domestic product and with an economic growth of the Catalan economy higher than that of the euro area since 2014. Global indicators positius. And to insist on that, and they recognize the fables that our society has, that our economy has, and that we have to face them and that we have to face them all. And this economic growth and this growth of the Catalan economy, as has also been mentioned, is the result of the work of a very large number of people: it is the result of the work of the citizens, the workers, the workers, the autonomists, the entrepreneurs and also of the Government of Catalonia – and also of the Government of Catalonia –, generating a context of confidence in economic management, conveying a stable _mark in terms of financing to the economic sectors. And so is the Government of Catalonia, Mr. Cano. And in any case, the citizens of Catalonia will already be able to see from here a few weeks or months if they consider the work done by the Government of the Generalitat useful or not and if it is useful or not the work done by some political groups from the opposition. We have built a stable and solvent country among all of us. And a solvent and sustainable country in the end is what it grows, its economy grows more, its tickets grow more than its debt. And these assumptions continue through this, we continue through this rigorous management, responsible management that has been carried out during the past years and promoted during the previous legislature for Vice President Junqueras, continued in this legislature for Vice President Aragonès, and left behind austerity policies. And I need to make it clear. And I also need to be aware that Catalonia is a country in which he has lived well, but we need to be aware of whose expectations we can expect. And we have recovered from this bill the levels of expenditure for the crisis. But in any case, if someone believes that we can put more economic resources on all economic parties, which brings us to 9,000_million euros of deficit. The 2010 myth: 9,000_million euros in deficit. If the governments that have passed, if the economic advisors that have passed through the Economic Department of 2010 had made 9,000_euros every year of deficit, then we would be in 90,000_millions more than we already have. And that, as everyone knows, the deficit has a problem, which later becomes a debt. And the debt has another problem, which is that later it has to become. And we have to be responsible. And as Mr. Santi Rodríguez had previously commented, that if we were very obedient, it is ultimately a responsibility in the presuppositional management. And the presuppositional management, from a left-wing perspective, is the one that when you're in a situation of crisis applications deficient to be able to push countercyclical measures. And when you're in a good economic situation, what you have to do is control and stabilize the deficit. Because to do 9,000_millions of deficit in 2010 and to pretend to do 9,000_millions of deficit in 2020 is not to be left-handed; it is to be irresponsible and it is to be especially irresponsible from the perspective of respect for future generations, to which we would be willing to transfer our decisions, to transfer our expenses. Therefore, a strict and responsible government is the one that when, after six years of economic stabilization, of sustained growth of its gross domestic product takes a responsibility that is to control its deficit. And we're still honest with everyone: there's no money to push all the parties, as it is raised by some of the groups that have intervened. And for these years this policy of responsibility has also led us to reduce the debt burden on gross domestic product from 35,4_per_cent that we had in 2015, at these times we are at 33,1 and the forecasts are to end the year in a 31,4_per_cent, passing only in five years from 35,4 to 31,4. Reducing the debt burden on gross domestic product four points is a very important exercise of the country's economic situation. And on the other hand, it was – as has also been stated – that the payment terms for suppliers have been reduced to half in the last few years, which is also an important indicator, because in the end they affect from the public administration the assemblies, the small enterprises, the social sectors, that come from the assumptions of the Generality. And in this good or very good economic management that has come to an end from the Department of Economics, too, we may have seen that since the State we have helped ourselves a little; in the last few years, there has been little help from the Government of the State. Last week we saw the latest case, which has been explained in a fairly extensive way and therefore I will not be in possession of it either, which is the decision of Minister Montero not to pass on to the autonomous communities, and especially to the Government of the Generality, the consequences of the VAT of 2017, more than 400_million euros that we could have incorporated into these assumptions and that, unfortunately, cannot be so. Money that the citizens of Catalonia have already paid two years ago, through consumption, through the payment of VAT, that they are entered into the box of the Government of the State since 2017 and that we are later covered interest, in a graceful way, for these loans that later finish us. And since the year of President Zapatero, since the year 2008, the incompliments of the third additional provision. We are suffering from the lack of funding for the Mosso d'Esquadra, the Law of Dependence, as well as the suspension by the Constitutional Court of many of the taxes we have approved in this Parliament and that we were allowed to increase the expense relief. As you know, the digital canon, the tax on bank deposits or the nuclear tax, which, in a systematized way, have been dropped, annulled by the Constitutional Court in a more than dubious way for its recent vocation. More than 11,000_million euros in total of failures and hardships, according to estimates made by the same Department of Economics and History, a figure to which we must add this arbitrary distribution of the floor of deficiency, which has also been explained in a very extensive way and the historical fiscal deficit that our country sees. And, on the other hand, it is also worth pointing out that, even though the Constitutional has not put the effort on easy people with these feelings, we continue, in these assumptions, to increase this commitment for a fairer taxation, for a more progressive taxation, for a taxation, especially in the environmental field, more ambitious. And form part of the solutions, as is our vocation. And we want to commit ourselves to one of the most important global challenges – if not, it's certainly the most important that we have at this moment in the table – which is the climate emergency. And, through these nine fiscal figures that we have already approved during the previous mandate and which are in line with this law of measures..., we must allow Catalonia to continue to excel in the development of environmental taxation, while Madrid neither does nor does it allow us to do so; while from the European Union we have the points in red respect what the Government of the State does not do in the field of environmental taxation, later we have all the passages that they can through the Constitutional Court when we try to develop here. And finally, the aggregation of expenses, of the entrances that form part of a premise is absolutely important that they are quadrant, that they are felt, that they are balanced, that they are balanced; that they create deficiencies in the end they have responsibilities for the future, and today the Government has to look to the future, as Vice-President Aragonès also said this morning, we have to look to the future, we have to prepare ourselves to face economic situations that will certainly not, in a future, be as good as we have at this time, and, therefore, we have to start preparing ourselves to face the possibility that the day it comes we can promote countercyclical measures. In summary, we are faced with socially compromised assumptions, environmentally compromised, that place a stake in the productive economy; strict assumptions, that grow, but that grow responsibly and that preserve above all the responsibility of public finances, the sustainability of public finances and above all the quality of our public services. And by responsibility and by sense of country we refuse to aggravate the compromise, we agitate to all the pleas, to the three political formations, that we can take a step forward in the best of the public sectors of our country, in short, in the best of the quality of life of our citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.169.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès, to whom I will take advantage to congratulate on the day of her birthday. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.170.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Vice President. Counselors, advisors – I'm sure they'll fit in. Thank you, Members of Parliament. You see, today, the day I make years, what celebration, preparing this debate. Thank you very much, very honorable President. Thank you very much. One fantastic day to be able to share, let's say, this debate, which, as you can imagine, from my position in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I had the hope that you would arrive. The place where I am intervening, in the end, after all the replicas, has made that I have been taking many notes. I would like to try not to repeat myself in many of the concepts that have been exposed, and therefore, a little to place us at this time, I have focused my exposure on five blocks– not saying five large blocks – that we are talking about..., to the first one I will talk about responsibility for these assumptions– and with this I do not want to give irresponsibility to the groups that have submitted the papers to the totality, but I do want to explain what responsibility we are talking about – ; in one_second block I will talk about the graces, because it is a matter of rejection; I will talk about the great figures, above all because it has not been spoken; I will talk about the removal of these assumptions, and I will serve the fifth block– that I believe will give time and final consideration. In the first place, as the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, we come here with a very clear slogan: these are assumptions, such as use, responsibility, assumption of responsibility, yes, and compromise with citizenship, yes, and above all. After three years, this country needs assumptions. They're wearing three years with extended assumptions. I told you. We've explained. Make sure that we come from a matter of trust with the government of President Puigdemont, in this Parliament, from assumptions that presented a government and a councillor of Economy, Vice President Junqueras, who today is found ready and in exile for having put the ballots at the disposal of the citizenry in a referendum. We cannot normalize a situation that is so difficult or make us see that things have happened in this Parliament and in this country since then. [[Greetings.]] These assumptions are not easy, President Torra. They're not. He already told us. But by responsibility he put the interests of Catalans and Catalans before anything. And that's what you did. And this is the task we have the deputies of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Governor Torra's presuppositions obey this logic: the people in the center, and their needs as strict rulers of government action. The responsibility of a president is precisely this, President Torra, and that is why we in the group thank him for this commitment and generosity, of which we take an example. Thank you, President. It is a lesson of responsibility and above all of sense of state. [[Greetings.]] During all the appearances we've had in the committees, and also for what we've been able to hear today, too, in this chamber, so we can't stop talking about these assumptions of responsibility. Because some people tell us it's an election theme. It's not an election theme – it's not an election theme. It's a matter of serving the citizenry before the party interests. We will either leave or enter, but we will have our dues, by compromise and by responsibility, as our President points out to us. Presumptions which, as they now see, serve to strengthen the welfare state, improve the quality of public services and boost the productive economy. And at this point, I'll mention a little bit more later. I have to move on to a block of acknowledgments, Vice President. It's true, you've done a great job of the Department of Economics, a great job of the whole team, with whom I've been able to share, I've been able to call, when I've had doubts, which..., this job appreciates a lot. Also thank the work of the negotiating teams, on behalf of Councilwoman Budó, of the Presidency, on behalf of the secretary. Also the hand to the group of commons, with which we have also been able to share some estons, sometimes in disagreements, is what the negotiations have, is what it has to do with politics, but I think this is what enriches the parliamentary debate and above all what brings us to this compromise with the country. In this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we have long heard speeches and expressions that seek to undermine the pocket of this Government, of our Government, of the Government of Catalonia: « chiringuitos, « plugidos, « vividors, « monotheme, accusations, threats..., that, look, I soc de poble, of a very small people, but they do not fit in the parliamentary decency and steal shame for many citizens and citizens of this country. They come to talk to us all the time about a country that is stuck and a government that doesn't rule. And today we come to this hemisphere with the best of the replicas: assumptions that place people in the center, reduce social inequalities, gender inequalities, territorial inequality; assumptions that enable the economy to be boosted and the climate to be addressed. These assumptions place Catalonia at the height of the best, at the height of the most modern societies, with the link of the objectives of the Government to the objective – to the SDG – of sustainable development, linking them to the commitments of the 2030 Agenda. And if not, they make proposals that are good to change it. I'm moving to the third block. Big numbers. I certainly don't have to talk to you either. We will recover the pre-crisis expenditure levels. In this sense, the Generalitat will count on this 3,070_million euros of expenditure, which surely Mrs Romero has discussed and will continue to discuss us; 3,070_million euros of expenditure not funded at the end of 2017, because they are the last ones we have approved, with the ability to increase the investment capacity by 25_per_cent. I wish we could work harder on this line. We very much care to recover the investor's pulse and that this continues to grow so as to continue to expand this welfare state by providing us with the best public equipment, and therefore public services, of the best quality. As the Vice-President said, as he acknowledged in his intervention, the effects of the crisis are still in our country. It's just that we've had some very complicated years after a crisis will finance very hard. Many families still... are already aware of these brushstrokes that have remained of Romans of all this time of crisis. Obviously, we recognize these shortcomings. But recognizing the shortcomings, if they do so in a constructive way, must help us to improve these assumptions, not the other way around; the other way around is not to feel responsible and not to feel country. Look, just as the assumptions have been made, there are four major strategic axes. The first is institutional quality; reducing inequalities, as I said; knowledge, and zero emission timing. What do these axes speak of for what it does to institutional quality and quality public services? So, listen, we're talking more masters, better schools. I've already told Councilman Bargalló that there are also problems in education, of course. You think he doesn't know? That he doesn't hurt him, does he? That they're not hanging on to the assumptions? How can they apply all this better to children and children who are the future of our country? Do you think we don't care about that, too? And of course we're worried. Let's go to a stronger system of salvation, of course, as it can't be in any other way. We are in a democratic country that is advancing with these policies. It means that we also bet in a very clear form for safety, with 750 seats from Mossos d'Esquadra, with 250 seats from Bombers and more than 100 rural agents. We're also betting on the security of the city. Sometimes it's as important to bet on the perception of security as it is seriously doing with security resources, which is what we're doing. It means recovering labor rights from workers and workers in the form of a return of 60_per_cent of the extraordinary pay; the digital transformation of the public administration, which must make us competitive, up to the country we want, and the development of other themes, such as electronic voting. For the reduction of inequalities, we focus on the fight against male violence, for its eradication. We talk about territorial inequalities, because we don't talk about this, we talk about territorial equity. We want to bet on the rural economy, on the living country and on the support of the pagesia, on the people of my land, also of the Priorat, reflected these days with the green links, and on all the activities of the primary sector. We have a new instrument, another time we get back the PUOSC, with more than 30_million euros per year at the disposal of local authorities, which we need. We also collect new promotions for logger habitat, acquisition of habitats in the exercise of the right of tanteig and retraction; in short, because it is to give response to one of the rights of speech, which is the right of the habitat worthy of the people. As I said, as far as the choice of knowledge and innovation and dynamism are concerned, I think we need to bet on this section of the National Pact for Industry and, above all, on the National Pact for the Knowledge Society, on the deployment of some concepts such as the monitoring of optical fiber throughout the country, because this country is still in a digital and competitive environment. We talk about culture, about recovering the levels of culture that we claim and we have claimed for many years, the basis of our future, digital, technological, what we want... At the basis of all this future is also culture as a tool of cohesion and integration. And, therefore, we bet on the measure that we can't here. As we have said, we are facing the climate emergency, and we are intervening in issues such as the water cycle, as we have said, Pla de résidus...; in short, talking about circular economy. Today we can no longer present ourselves with assumptions that do not speak of the circular economy. But, look, from our political space and from our model, we don't just think that a model must be based on the reinforcement and expansion of purely welfare policies. We believe that the assumptions of Governor Torra deepen a maximum that we are very clear as a parliamentary group, which forms our DNA, which is the productive economy, because its functioning is the basis of the redistributive economy. A state of strong well-being also passes because we are able to generate decent and quality jobs so that people can reach the end of the month, and more so than this work is worthy and productive. Much raising the talent in research, innovation, technology transfer policies – this morning, too, I spoke to some Members –, encouraging entrepreneurship, basic to increase, attract and increase people's talent and initiative in our country. I, of course, support policies for industry. It is essential to link all this knowledge and all this industrial base of our country with the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge, which we also understand as a strategic eix, and to take it further and further. And, therefore, we want, and we have also taken care of, so that these parties are presumably endowed. In university politics, it gives little to a demand widely demanded by many groups of this hemisphere and it is 30_percent of university taxes, and obviously, we need a way to go, of course we do; we need to listen to the rectors, of course we do; we have work to do. Let's go build all the folds, because we know that university is key in our country. The fourth block. The glass floor – there are always glass windows. As I said, this is a presupposition born of a negotiation, so it's not in essence the presupposition that each of the formations we set up would have gone hard to term. That's logical, that's part of politics. We have some requests that we would like to incorporate, or even some tax issues that our parliamentary group would certainly not have put forward. We haven't talked, surely after that, with the measuring law, we can get in there. But, in any case, we have superimposed our sense of responsibility before party and electoral interests, we have put forward the interests of citizenship. But, of course, the greatest limitation we have here is the disloyalty of the Government of the Spanish State. Out of touch with the Catalan institutions that do not allow us to develop the policies that we want. It's been a long time. What we want is an ideal premise for an independent state, because it would be ours, with full competitions. They can see what happens to us when we're out of the summer and the beasts. When we speak in this hemisphere of an independent state in the form of a republic some believe that we speak of flags, or privileges, or "xiringuitos, but what we really speak of [[remorse of the voice]] What we're actually talking about is rights, it's equality and it's people. We have said this many times: with an independent state in the form of a republic we could have all our resources and be able to put these resources and all the talent that this country has at the service of people. And here's the key to all the debates we can make on assumptions. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not go by numbers, this goes by concept and this goes by country model. The incompliments of the Spanish State are an act of financing, imposing an expired financing model on us. How can it be that in a productive economy like that which we have in Catalonia of more than 250.000_million euros of gross domestic product, superior to seven states of the European Union, and at the level of Denmark or Finland..., we should manage our own resources and not fall into the game of evil beasts that leave us many times stuck with commitments that we have as the Government before the citizenry. The Spanish State does not pay its debts to Catalonia: more than 11,000_million from the third additional arrangement, financing of Mossos, etc. And what we've added now, the subject of VAT. Now, the last Tax and Finance Policy Council has announced that it will not pay us these 430_millions. I've said it, I've explained it. That is to say, some money that was ours, that they had that our people had paid, that we had collected and that they were going to Madrid, is now turned into a debt. Well, then, you have your grace. I think I know how to do it and I know how to do it, but we can't stay here. Why not a 0,3 instead of a 0,2, when the Presupposition Act would allow us to do so? Perhaps with the lords of common these 400 and millions of this 0.2, who give us a change of money that is already ours, which is very curious, so maybe we get to 0.31, which is what marked us the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, and that each one endures the work that must be done and that each one gives his answer before the people that must be governed. Maybe it's time we started putting things in their place, too. And yet one more thing: a vote also took place in the Senate today, in which our parliamentary group, as it could not otherwise be, has given the support that VAT money can be returned to Catalonia, and unfortunately some groups, also some represented in this chamber, have had an absolutely different or contradictory voting position. I'm asking from this cliff, since today I have this privilege, that I can direct myself... that the people ask us together, and when the people tell us together, we have to believe it, and the unit goes through coherence. [[Greetings.]] Finally and not to enter the fiscal deficit, because this I think is a recurring theme and that it is a theme that with the model we currently have we will not change, or we go to a change, with a new concept of country model, like in this hemicicle the independence groups have long explained, or we go here, or already, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps someday they will have to explain what we do with these moneys that they owe us, and if they don't pay us, blur and new account, and that they let us make the path all alone, that surely – surely – we would do better. [[Widow's remorse.]] For all these incompliments, complacencies, which we could still be one more explanation, I believe, and if they allow me to put it to the table, that it is essential to call the Bilateral Commission between the Generality and the State, to put black on white all these themes, before these forty-four points that the presidents have been discussing. Only four of them refer to what you call the process, but there are a few more who are afraid of funds, which is perhaps worth working with this bilateral commission. I have 11 minutes left and I will take advantage of them in the later block, with considerations, perhaps more personal, but also, obviously, aligned with my parliamentary group. Look, even though, as I said, it's a premise of pacts, I'm not sure, even from everything you've presented to the totality, that in the background we all agree... I don't want to be misunderstood, we all agree that citizenship needs these assumptions, this approval of assumptions, for the sake of all the citizens of Catalonia. And wait, I hope we still have time to make a deep debate, especially with contents, I insist. Some items in totality we really expected them, especially because there are some groups that they like to encourage the blockade, the rift. Well, we weren't supposed to be surprised, were we? The Ciutadans Group is a party that lately has us accustomed to this particular language – which respect absolutely, eh? I'd miss more. But very often it brings us to an anti-political road, and more recently they have experienced conflict and failure. I also ask them: if they don't recognize the president of the Generality of Catalonia is the president of the Generality and the Government of Catalonia, what are they doing here debating his assumptions? For what he does to the Group of the People's Party, Mr Santi Rodríguez, who knows that you and I have different speeches, but that we understand each other and that we would understand each other, because with respect to his positions and knows it, but, listen, neither Montero nor Montoro, here we speak of the Catalan Republic and until that does not come, so we will hardly be able to bring forward certain assumptions worthy of what is deserved of Catalonia. But, look, I'm not here to teach anyone lessons, but I invite them to do politics and to be close to people. For our part, it extends to all parliamentary groups to discuss the importance of these assumptions. The extended hand, of course. Let me make a final point, too, in this sense. Mirin, as the deputy of Junts for Catalonia, who has socialist values and values, hoped to have a debate on the needs of Catalans and Catalans with the MPs of the PSC Group. Mrs Romero, you and I know that we always understand each other, with a rich and well-founded debate; I did not expect totality from a group that has a history of esteem and work for our country. I know it's hard, but I don't recognize you. [[Greetings.]] For my part and for the part of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the hand extended to the dialect and the hand extended to bring forward assumptions that put people to the center. PSC companies, companies and companies of the CUP, obviously the companies of Catalonia in Comú We can, come folded, we are still in time. We can still build some fantasy assumptions for Catalonia. Members and Members, it is up to us to put the accounts up to date, not for an electoral compromise, but for a compromise of work for people and the country. We, Junts for Catalunya, are ready. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.171.0	For many years, Congresswoman. [[Rialles.]] Then again, and if any parliamentary group of those who have submitted papers to the totality wants to make use of a replica... [[Mrs. Alicia Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Romero? Forward, you've got five minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, Mr. Cano; since he hadn't raised his hand, I said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.172.0	Thank you, President. Well, we've finally returned with Mrs Pallarès to the identity debate, which I will then resume, because I understand that what is good is to do pedagogy and what this attrition gives me is the possibility of doing pedagogy to everyone who listens to me. The reality of budgets is what we have commented on. We have been without budgets for three years; of course, without budgets we cannot be governed and you have not been concerned at any time with adopting budgets. Perhaps the key to everything was also given to us by Mr Salvadó, when he said that those responsible for achieving budgetary stability were the technicians of the Economic and Finance Board. I believe that at this moment what we are in the hands of technocrats, without any political criteria. There are no politicians behind these decisions and it is those who are leading the Catalan economy as managers so far. And that, in a way, is what allows you to declare that you are going to call an election when you approve those budgets and you will continue with that autopilot without having to worry about doing politics, because you are going to be permanently in the electoral campaign and you will have everything in the hands of those technocrats. But what happens here is that the budget debate is very important. It is very important, as we well know, and it is for the economy and for the citizenry; a citizen who, we have already explained before, is having a bad time, suffers poverty, child poverty, the wage gap, people have a bad time, families do not arrive at the end of the month, while here what they do are identity debates. On the other hand, we find the Catalan economy, which does its job, which works. Precisely, when I was talking about Mr. Salvadó that the Financial Times made as the best Catalonian regions, it's curious because the Financial Times what it says is the best for something you complain about, for the infrastructure that Catalonia has. [[The timer laughs.]] For the infrastructures that we have managed to achieve by belonging to Spain and the European Union, such as the port, such as railways, such as roads. You go around and you don't see that reality that you're planting at us. On the other hand, there is some contradiction in the fact that you say that in Catalonia you live very well and that it is we who paint a terrifying scene, when then, on the other hand, you say that you are repressed, that you are oppressed, that you cannot speak, that you are persecuted... I think we would have to agree, or you live very well in Catalonia or we are under a repressive state. Then, on the other hand, I think that the economy has already ended, taking into account what their attitude would be..., the Catalan economy and entrepreneurs are asking not to harm them, not to put sticks on their wheels, not to cut the roads, not to make lists of good and bad companies... That's what Catalans are asking them, Catalans and entrepreneurs. Those who get up every morning to go to work, those who know how hard it is to lift the blind. They don't want trouble, they don't want the Meridiana to be cut every night, as I told them. It's still cutting. Cento_veinticinco_días con fiestas independentistas en la Meridiana. And the injured: the neighbors and the trade. That's what you're asking. And that's what you give us. That's why I tell you that everyone here does their job, except you. And, on the other hand, also tell them that in that pedagogy that I told them, they use all the excuses they want to defend their identity ideology, but do not use the economic argument. Because if you use the economic argument you are deceiving the citizenry. Well, to all but Mr. Canadell, who he does think that if we are independent – the president of the Chamber of Commerce – we will tie the dogs with longanizas. And it's not going to be like that. Riding the country is very expensive. That deficit you say quickly fades only by belonging to NATO. All of that fades away. All of that doesn't have any kind of route. And that doesn't explain it. That doesn't explain it to you. That doesn't explain it. Therefore, the economic argument, I will ask you not to use it. And, on the other hand, I'm very proud. Despite all the criticisms we have received today, see the thirty-six citizens' deputies defending 2,100,000 Catalans and having noses... When you talk about ours! Ours? Ours – the 2,000,000 who do not think like you –... Can you imagine in this camera without us? (Whispering) Putting... With the PSC and the common ones, putting them in front of the mirror? I think there's no one better than Citizens to put them in front of the mirror. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.173.0	Now yes, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.174.0	Thank you, President. He told the Deputy Saved that it's urgent to have some assumptions, that it's urgent need. Yes, if we agree, but it also seemed to us that 2019 was urgently needed, when you designed them and did not approve them in the Executive Board and did not bring them to Parliament. And you say: "No, but there was repression in 2019. So you're telling us that the reason the Executive Council didn't finally approve of the assumptions they designed was for repression? You said: "Because in 2019 there was repression. Say we're wearing three years of repression and that's why they didn't get in. Listen to me, I, it seems incredible, especially because if you think so much about people... I don't know if some people who suffer from poor children, problems to enter a residence, etc., if they pose them as the first reason repression affects them or they understand it. I don't think so. Honestly, it's his responsibility to make assumptions. I could have done it in 2019, which was also urgent and necessary, and, in change, so, miri, they have been expanding until 2020. Honestly, it seems to me to be an absolute irresponsibility. And we're making serious proposals, and I think they've proven it many times and they'll see it in the papers we'll be presenting. But, listen, going to elections is almost a necessity. But if a few weeks ago we listened to President Torra say that this was a broken government, a exhausted legislature. But if it's what happened the first few minutes of his intervention criticizing his government partner. Now – I say it with all the world's affection – of course, after listening to you, Mr. Saved, who goes here and criticizes the 2010 tripartite government, of course, I don't really know whether the partners are loyal enough or whether you understand what loyalty is. In any case, President Torra made a definition of what this tremendous, dramatic government was, which I sincerely endure and legitimize a dying government I don't know if you have much sense. We don't think so. And that's why we asked for elections and who's coming up with assumptions, and not you mortgage them. And, listen, if we had an election on April 5th, like Basques or Gallecs, we could have a government out in May, June and September could have assumptions. Why not? Listen to me, if we carry three senses, huh? Now the... now the press is coming, when we're three years old without any presupposition. So much for this rush at the beginning of 2019. So much boon, so much boon! But, okay. A government that neither the 1.5_per_cent of the citizens – no more than the 1.5_per_cent of the citizens – say that you solve your problems. Anyway, I don't think he's giving for more. And this should be over by now. Mr. Saved – I don't say so much to Mrs. Pallarès, because she hasn't insisted so much – but we are in the debate to the totality, the debate to the totality. And in the totality debate one thing that does is to present his arguments why he presents it. Why don't you just break up with these assumptions. And we gave him a lot of arguments. And now the period of the papers will open, and now we will present them, we are already working; we will present them. But I'm also telling you one thing: it'll be minor issues. Why? Because you changed Parliament's Rules of Procedure to 2017, and the margin they leave us to make statements is very little. For starters, don't let us increase the tickets. And don't let them change, don't let us do pieces to change parties or departments. I mean, I can't get money from one department to put it in the others. No, Mr Jové, I know, I don't... And what's going on? So that I can't change priorities, and that I don't like their priorities, I can only make small statements. Or I could do presuppositional engineering. But it doesn't allow me to say "no, no, listen, I want to put 200_million more here. No, because he won't let me move parties. And, therefore, some superfluous expense that could come from one department and put it in another, does not allow me this Regulation. So, what are we gonna do? Yeah, exams. Enough? Yeah. Now, lifts, very lifts, they can't be. Because the Rules do not allow us to modify resources between departments. And that means you can't change priorities. And we don't like the priorities of this government. And, above all, we believe that there may be more tickets, which we cannot modify with this Regulation. So, we'll do tests, yeah. I don't know if you said so, Mr. Saved, because we give you some idea, because so much to insist on our proposals. Home, if there was a dialogue with us, maybe we could've given it to them and done the presupposition. But what they didn't want for nothing has come into our minds. In any case, he's not worried, in a few days he'll keep our exams, little ones. They won't be uplifted because they won't leave us the Rules of Parliament. And in any case, as if our own choices were going to win them, we could mark our own priorities and our own opportunities not lost for what he does at the ticket. While this does not happen, we cannot legitimize a government that has been broken out of a exhausted legislature, a government that does not collect 1.5 per cent of its citizens and a government that has been dying for many days and that has been unable, in the time since it was elected, to present assumptions. It's too late, politically and socially. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.175.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.176.0	Yes; President, just to inform you that we will not use our word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.177.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.178.0	Yeah, no. I do want to make use of the turn, but in an extraordinarily short form, basically for two things. The first is to congratulate Mrs. Pallarès on her birthday, and in this sense to remind her if she heard a phrase she said or said: "The government of Zapatero is a blessing to Catalonia, and the financing model is the best in history. Remember? Year 2009, statements that you made yourself at the Diari de Tarragona. [[Greetings.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.179.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next and to position herself has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.180.0	I didn't think the tower would ever make it. [[The joker laughs.]] Well, good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Before he got into his own intervention, he did want to do... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What? Ah! I wanted to make a statement, because there's been a lot of talk about these assumptions and I think it's worth a little context. We come from a decade of austerity and detail, we come from a presuppositional prorogation since 2017, from a situation of judicialization of the conflict that was created for the governments of the People's Party, from a situation of democratic exceptionality and from a situation of political blockade, and all that is being done is to degrade the salvation of our institutions, of our democracy. People are each time longer off than we are, and I think it's a symptom that we're failing and, therefore, I want to insist on the need and conviction that politics must be useful and that we need dialogue and agreement. And it is in this context in which we frame the negotiation of assumptions, in this context of political anomaly and also in the will to contribute to open a new stage, a new phase in which Catalonia, therefore, has to make necessary changes and also has to lead the change that is being made to the State, which is to be laid down, which has to put the life and interests of Catalans and Catalans in the centre. And for that reason, we will abstain on the Generality's assumptions and today we will vote against the papers to the full. This will make it easier for me to continue with your parliamentary procedure, a set of assumptions which, on one side, contain a tax reform which we consider to be good, which is brave, obviously, if we were to have gone further than that, but well, there is nothing we have achieved with this tax reform, and on another side some social measures which we consider to be essential for the social majority in our country. And also to clarify, the negotiation of these assumptions has as its objective to improve the lives of Catalans and Catalans, in any case assuming a endorsement of the poor management of this Government of the Generality, which, as President Torra said the other day, is already at its end. And so, we, from the first moment on, said that first assumptions and then elections. And he said that, and given this, I do want to structure my intervention into five blocks, which would be answerable to the five questions that the last few weeks have asked us as the parliamentary group comes out of the negotiation of the assumptions. Is the first one why Catalonia needs assumptions? So because the social majority of this country needs them. As before, after a decade of austerity and detail, public services must be shielded, and on the one hand the government's inaction, and on the other the blockade of the opposition, in the end it is a service that is being made to the powerful, and it is the common people that most need institutions to work. All public administrations need assumptions, so you know who managed an institution, a company, or even a family. I ask myself, why are those who want State General Presuppositions unable to afford to push forward some presuppositions for Catalonia? Why, ladies and gentlemen of the PSC? And also why now that we have a presupposition agreement in Barcelona that's never been made for the support that we're unable, among all of us here, to do the same with the presuppositions for Catalonia? Why? By electoralism, you wouldn't get along. Because, moreover, it is not a question of Commú Pode, it is a diagnosis that has been shared with unions, with social movements, with the third sector, with the municipal world, and what it cannot be is that they want to overcome the bipartisanism from which we come now into the blockade, and, therefore, we have said that we are negotiating some assumptions, and we have said, and we have been very clear, that we would not approve or let alone deal with converging assumptions, and, therefore, we did not have any assumptions, and now, a year later, we can say, after the coming-and-five meetings, of three hours each of duration, therefore, that we have fulfilled our commitment. And we also know that it is not the model of the country that these assumptions of the members of the government, we know that Junts per Catalunya already said that he did not like this tax reform and that some social measures, therefore, well accepted them to counter. But I think that despite all the differences and discrepancies, we need to let go of the policy of trenches and go to agreements, to dialogue and to solutions. The second question that we have also been given enough is whether these assumptions actually reverse the detail. So we, from the first minute, and knowing that it was very difficult to reach an agreement on these assumptions, we only set up a single red line, and this was actually the reversal of the detail, and there was a lot of talk about whether to compare this assumption with 2017 or 2010, and I think that it is not for all tastes, and depending on whether it was a political logic, a more economical, a more presumptuous, and also, even, some perverse electoralist, so, we have seen, but I think that the best is to talk about some figures. At least for us to go from 0 to 70_million in the financing of the bressol schools is to reverse the detail. [[Some applause.]] Lowering the university tax by 30_per_cent is reversing the detail. It is also to reverse the detail of contracting 1,400 health professionals and reducing waiting lists. It also has 120_million euros more for the guaranteed income of ciutadania. Also return the 60_per_cent extra payments from 2013 when you will work. Reversing clippings is also doubling resources for survivors of masculinist rapes. Reversing retails is also more than 100_million euros more for public transport and, of course, multiplying the groceries. And just to give some examples. And here I must tell you, Vice-President, Mr Aragonès, that it is curious that you are coming as a success the proposals that we have brought to the negotiating table, but despite all the joy that we are happy to have in order to ensure that they are reflected in this agreement of assumptions. And in any case, in macro data, if we compare the overall expenditure of the joint departments by 2010, we have 500_million more euros, and if we compare with 2017 we have 300_million more euros per capita. On the third question we have been asked about anat fent. Why aren't they the assumptions that we would make if we were in the government? So for two reasons, mainly: the first, because our series are more social and more expansive, and secondly, because we are in the opposites of the formula, of the continuum paradigm that is applying Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left, which seems to have a little bit on one side or another because today they follow a little more liberal or tomorrow they follow a little bit more social-democratic. But the reality is that for us this system, this economic model has failed, for injustice and for predatory, basically: it has broken our society from inequality, it is destroying the planet and, moreover, it is deeply patriarchal. And it's full of contradictions and hypocrisy: it can't be said that it's meant to be an instrument of struggle against climate-emergency and also to maintain a model of untenable tourism and consumption like Hard Rock, that it's more what promotes ludopathy; it can't be said that it's meant to be an instrument of liberation from the popular classes and at the same time that you have to take some social measures that are often with tenals or that is not fomenting economic, food or educational sovereignty; it can't be said that it's meant to be an instrument of territorial equity and not being able to create an ecological transition with social justice, which faces depopulation, and also the social crisis that our country is experiencing. For us, therefore, the economic and social model does not give for more. And climate emergence is the symptom of a deadly disease that is the fruit of unbridled capitalism. So, what do we think the country needs? So offer a political, economic and social alternative that remains democratic, that fosters the logic of cooperation, and also the distribution of power. Therefore, this is from a plural, solid and socially transformative economy; from a feminist economy, which has to bring to light all the work of cures, which in 99_per_cent of the cases, not to say 100_per_cent, falls on women, which is invisible and which has followed that which has allowed this country to pull forward this time. Also an economy that has to defend the common good; an economy that has to stop penalizing labor returns for the benefit of capital returns, and also that stops saying once and for all that the rich are rich because it turns out that they work a lot and the poor are poor because they don't work and because they deserve it. So no. [[Greetings.]] Surely if the rich are so rich it is because they are doing it at the expense of the working people who are leaving their lives there because the others have a lot. And, therefore, in order to reverse this situation, we believe that courageous public policies are falling, that the few reach out to the private economy and that they put forward other economies: the public, the community, and also the social cooperative. There's a lot of economics, and here it looks like there's only one. Therefore, we need to diversify the wealth fonts and walk towards a post-growth and post-capitalist model, because the country, which is passing by now, the country cannot be a hostile space for its citizenship; citizenship is the one that needs to take over the country. And that's why we don't just have to produce in another way, with other rhythms, and also with other conditions, obviously, but we also have to adjust our ways of consumption, thinking of a good life that remains compatible with the planet and with the rest of humanity. Fourth question: how did you feel you've asked for assumptions and choices from a few months ago? – It has also been quite common for them to hurt us. So we knew that our proposal had risks, and that it could seem as if it were counterintuitive. But every time today, I think we've managed to get more people to follow each time that you see and that you share: we need assumptions like country priority and we need elections, because we also get the change to Catalonia. And, as we have repeated on different occasions, the formula of Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana is exhausted, but shielding public services is a country need, paying what is given to public workers is a country need, it is also beginning to prioritize spending and strengthen the welfare system, and it is also a country need to give support to assemblies, which are each day giving face, in the first line, and resolving the concerns and needs of citizenship. And that's why I need to do it here and now, because the needy of the country can't wait. And it's clear that we've enjoyed negotiating these assumptions with another government, but that meant leaving Catalonia for a year more without assumptions, and this scener, we weren't willing to make it possible. And the last question: why do we think this presupposition agreement is the first stone of a progressive government? So because, as I said before, the formula of Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia is absolutely exhausted; we see it..., before it was every week and now we see it almost every day. And also because it's the first step to change that Catalonia needs. It is not only a question of improving the lives of people today, but also of creating new horizons in Catalan politics. And I think that after years of difficulty, tension, blocking, we now find ourselves in a disjunctive, and it's deciding whether Catalonia should remain anchored in the past, with a model and with a system and with a government that doesn't work, or whether we want to lead the change not only in Catalonia, but also in the State. I sincerely say to you our opinion: we consider that we must work for change, a change that must leave behind exhausted forms, that must empower agreements and the dialogue, that must decentralize power, that must promote a new sustainable economic and social model, take over citizenship and build a presence and a future from feminism. And, as during today's long speeches, some groups have dedicated some nice words to us, so I wanted to take advantage of the time I have left to answer. In the first place, Ciutadans. I believe that when someone has a solid ideological base, when he has his ideological profiles limited, he has no reason to agree with other political forces with whom he does not share the entire political program. As I said before, we cannot move from bipartisanism to blockade. I think the problem is that you don't have these defined ideological limits: you were born as social democrats, then you were liberal and now you're running without a scrupulous right and with the extreme right. Not to mention, they don't even have the principles. [[applause]] ... they have neither the principles of the European democratic right. I think that's the problem, and that's why they don't understand that we can come to different agreements with other forces. To the PSC, with all the affection, I think it's necessary to leave the frivolity of the band, because we're talking about people's lives, and here everyone knows that with this government's irresponsibility there's no assumption of going to elections, in any case – in any case. Therefore, I recognize that the electoral calendar is on another side and that we cannot leave the working classes of this country in a system with public services every time weaker, when there are signs of economic recession. And I will also say to them: you know that in the best of cases – and they have said so – if there are elections now, we would have no presuppositions until September. This implies a year more without assumptions. And I encourage them to ask their mayors, the Núria Marín, the Núria Parlon, whether we need assumptions or not; or ask their voters, who are waiting six months to be intervened in public sanitation. So I think you can't be frivolized with people's lives. And I would also say to the CUP: you know that this assumption and this tax reform are much more than you got in 2017. If they think that things should be different or better, I think that when President Torra was invested as President, they had a good chance to negotiate what you think. And, lastly, I'm also sure that if instead of letting us alone, you've come with us to negotiate these assumptions, they're probably even more serious. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.181.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. They'll have to excuse me: before I've interpreted that the groups, on the contrary, would not make use of the reply, and they've noticed that they do. So, now, if they want, in the first place, Mr Lluís Salvadó, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, and then Mrs Teresa Pallarès, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya... [[Widow's remorse.]] Members, they have a right, they need a little more patience; it is five minutes for each parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.182.0	Thank you, President. Well, in any case, two considerations, one for the Ciutadans Group and the other for the Socialists Group. In the first place, a little, clarify to Mrs Romero that I have not apologized to her before. Apology..., you already have a long list of excuses – then I'll talk to you. What I explained to him was what was going to Catalonia in 2019. And, frankly, yesterday some of us were shocked that you asked what had happened in 2019: two elections to the State, which are relatively transcendent; a judicial sentence that generates an impossible terrabastall in this country. You may not be affected by it; a few million Catalans are affected by it, and a lot. And to a few million Catalans, it seems to us that things have happened very, very hard, and scandalous that you have asked yourself and do not remain aware of what is happening in this country. And, as I said, it seems... I suppose you know that saying of the Ebre of the bank of the « if not, because it was popularized by Els Quicos, and you seem to follow the bank of « if not: « The assumptions of 2019, it was very important that they were approved. Now, if it weren't for... – and you have a long list of excuses –, "the PSC would have been rounded up – and it wouldn't be rounded up. "And the presuppositions of 2020 are very important, if not... – it has a long list of excuses, and the PSC doesn't give up. "And the tax reform... – that later, from here to a pond, the companies of the law of measures will not speak –, also you..., "a step forward important, and if it were not that..., they would vote against it. And now we have the last list of excuses: "If it weren't for..., we would be presenting papers, but there is a rule... In short, assume it: there is what there is, and the papers that will be presented are those that can be presented in a context of assuming that the deficit is restricted. And respect some considerations that Mr. Cano has made... Comment, for one thing and it's been hours and hours explaining that it's a one-procedure premise, that it's the premise of the process, "it's the assumption that the Government of Catalonia only thinks about it and it spends all its resources on the process, and that's why there's no money to cover the needs of Catalans, and then it turns out that it's a technocratic premise. Clarify's: either it's a technocratic premise or it's the premise of the process. In short, it is the assumption that Catalonia needs, it is the strict and responsible assumption that this country needs at this time. And another thing: before Mrs. Bonet asked her a series of questions about why the Andalusian embassies were good and the Catalans were not, and yet she hasn't explained it to us, and why a 10_per_cent in Catalonia is serious and why a 20_per_cent in Andalusia isn't, which is where you govern. And in any case, tell him that in the end, as Oriol Junqueras says, it's all true now: Catalonia has seen itself well, in terms of relationships, but there are many people who do not see it so well. And we have a lot of needs, and we have a part of the people that are poor, that have difficulties, that suffer the weather, and we would need the tools of a state to be able to cover the needs of a lot of people in our country and to be able to make our economy look better and have more tools, more infrastructure, not only to be the first region in southern Europe that is more attractive for investment, but also the first region in Europe to attract investment. And this is our calling. And, if you consider that in this country at this time there has not been repression, make television, read the newspapers, do once for Europe, for the positions of various European courts, that do not share in absolute the feelings of the Spanish courts – put Belgium, put Germany, put Switzerland, where exiles can run without any problem. And this in Western Europe means that Europe has freed it and that there is no such thing as repression in the Spanish State. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.183.0	Thank you, Congressman. When you're ready, Mrs. Pallarès, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.184.0	Thank you, President. I'll try to be brief, but I wanted to do it from here so I could look at it face to face and explain what I'm about to tell you. First of all, I believe that the summary and the one that I would like you to remain with me today, and on behalf of the Junts Group for Catalonia, is that we are here to work and continue to work a few assumptions by responsibility, by responsibility of the country. Presumables that a country of quality and a country that wants to have all these services that you also want and want for all, for all the voting people, of all..., presumables that also pass because we understand, from the pedagogy, Mr. Cano, that we are also talking about fundamental rights, huh? We are talking about the right to expression, freedom of expression, freedom to demonstration. That's teaching too, huh? Let us understand, that if we want a free country, with good assumptions, that you give answers to people, we must also respect the fundamental rights. And that's worth it, very much worth it, keep in mind. Mrs Romero, a brush stroke, but it seemed to me that she was questioning repression. In duel, in duel a lot. Because to the 155th Commission..., to which you, the PSC, of which I was a part – I will go there –, they came to us..., has had these days some appearances to the 155th Commission, to which if you had ever seen repression, all the crueler face of repression in this country [[applause]] represented by our political prisoners. And also, and as you know, because she's also a birdish woman to make numbers, the issue that this 155 also brought us to a complicated situation for the Administration. I'm done. I do not deny, Mr Santi Rodríguez, nor will I ever deny my socialist values, and much less my stage in the socialist government. I will never do it and I will not miss the opportunity to say it here and we need it – here and we need it – that these socialist values, which today are not recognized in the PSC [[remorse of the voice]] They have had the opportunity to have a key to democracy and progress in this country and now they have it with the dialogue in Madrid. To see if we are able to make use of it and work as lime and as corresponding to socialist values. Therefore, never, Mr. Rodriguez, will I deny my creces, years against. And I don't lose the hope that this will be the key back in our country someday. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.185.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We called for a vote. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Romero... [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.186.0	Thirty seconds. I didn't deny anything. What I said is that it doesn't serve me as an excuse and a reason not to submit assumptions in 2019. Because I, if I don't remember correctly, 2019 was full and passed the laws; so, if we approved the laws, we could have approved the law of assumptions. That's what I told you, Mrs. Pallares and Mr. Saved. And another thing: do you know why they changed the Rules and now they're making it very difficult for us? Why did they approve 1,500 SCP papers and, as they couldn't complete them, what did they do? Change the Rules so we can't do them. That's what happened. If they don't silence the opposition... then try to cover their mouths as much as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.187.0	[[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez, 30 seconds, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.188.0	Thank you, Mrs. Pallarès. I didn't ask him to absolutely deny anything, I just made it a memory, basically, because at least he's trying to be consistent with what he said in 2009 and what he's saying now independently that you're part of one party or another. All right, all right,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.189.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. I would like to point out that, according to Rule 132 letter and Rule 132, all the items submitted together must be put to the vote. If the Ple agrees to the return of the bill, this is to be rejected; otherwise, the input forecasts and the maximum overall expenditure resulting from the presented project and the distribution of this by sections are to be fixed. Let us then proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The papers to the total return of the Generality's Bill of Presumptions Project for 2020 have been rejected by 58 votes in favour, 65 against and 8 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Pass it over. [[The applause continues.]] Thank you. [[Draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures to create tax on installations affecting the environment]] [[200-00012/12]] Let us now turn to the debate on the bill on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures and the creation of tax on installations affecting the environment. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.190.0	Very late again, Mr. President. Councillors, advisers, Members, Members, these first words in the presentation of the Tax, Financial and Administrative Measures Bill of the public sector and the creation of the tax on installations which affect the environment are grateful to the two parliamentary groups which have rejected the papers to the totality and also to the parliamentary group which has abstained and which, therefore, allow the handling of the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia for the year 2020 to continue its path to Parliament. It's a good deal of assumptions, it's the result of consensus, I want to thank everyone's effort. It is obvious that the political approaches that we defend the different parliamentary groups that allow this processing of assumptions and also allow the processing of the draft bill of measures, we defend different political projects, if not, we would not be presenting ourselves in different candidatures. But the precise value is that this difference has not been an obstacle to putting us in agreement and they have sacrificed their own positions, of all, for the benefit of the citizenry. And I think this has to be put in value. As you all know, in parallel with the handling of the Presumables Bill, we are using the Tax, Administrative and Financial Measures Bill, which has been referred to as the Presumables Accompanying Bill in Parliament. And, in fact, he accompanies them, because it is the law that he establishes, also in the area of tickets, the legislative changes that allow, therefore, to have a presuppositional or another scene, some available resources or others. A law that backs up a whole series of modifications, updates and novelties surrounds various measures related to the fundamentals of the assumptions, but also involved in the management of the same assumptions. The most important part of the measures that the accompanying law contains, and that is where I will focus my intervention today, is in the field of taxation, all that has to do with the small margin, but which we have explored and which we have taken advantage of, which the Catalan Government has in the field of fiscal policy. And here it is necessary to remember that the tickets do not finance, therefore, those that are not intended..., that do not come from the debt that the Generalitat has, the majority come from the beasts of the financing model; the majority come from this system of autonomous financing that has often emerged in the debate of previous assumptions and, therefore, are those tickets that the State collects and from which it transfers a share to the autonomous communities, have applied some funds, in some cases, that compensate us, in other cases, that detract from resources. Therefore, we do have the capacity of entrances in one part of these, with modifications on the IRPF, but also in taxes totally surrendered and in taxes propitious, those that we receive from the Tax Agency of Catalonia. The margin, therefore, that we have, to make fiscal policy that effectively affects the joint venture of Catalan society, is small, it is not great. The rules leave us with the margin that they leave us. We cannot only decide which taxes are to be paid by the citizens of Catalonia, but that, moreover, the fiscal deficit is the result that this effort by the citizenry of Catalonia, which is, obviously, the one we see at the end of the month in payroll accounts, is the VAT that we pay, so, every time we consume, is the tax of companies that pay the businesses of Catalonia, a substantial part of this tax effort does not return in benefits or services or transfers to the citizenry of Catalonia or to the administrations. Therefore, the legitimate criticism that there can be of the fiscal policy of the Generalitat, can be-there, but we have to recognize that the margin is small and that really the great processes of transformation of the fiscal policy to our country is decided from the Congress of Deputies and the Senate, and, therefore, driven by the Spanish Government. With another scenario, it is obvious, and with the screenplay of full sovereignty of a Catalonia independent that we defend many members of this chamber, in which we dispose of all the resources that we are already meeting through taxes at these times, so, obviously, the return to Catalan society would be much greater, with public services and infrastructure much better than it is now. So far, I've talked about the financing model and the entrances that the Generality assumes, but we also need to take into account, in the entrances, a long list of incompliments and incompliments that it is important to put on the table so that we won't stop fighting, either, during the coming weeks, so that we still have some better assumptions. The example we've had this week. The 2017 VAT recap, which was reduced in one_month, to practicality, the amount equivalent to one_month of what is owed to us by the VAT paid by the citizens of Catalonia, because in its moment Minister Montoro made a change in the form of management and recapturing of the VAT tax, the year 2017, which caused us to lose the equivalent of one_month. And, therefore, it is dishonest, when, in the accounts of making up for this, that the Spanish Government actually has, that which is insufferable is a little more of a deficit, as if we could interchant, as it did earlier this morning, a payroll, which you earn, for a loan from this company – it is absolutely different – that you will obviously have to return with interest. But what's even more surprising is that Minister Montero says that these moneys we've already spent, when those moneys are reserved for him, it's the government of the state. I believe that this way of bringing responsibility for a mismanagement of the State over autonomous communities is obviously an insult to intelligence. Therefore, all those who continue in this chamber say and speak of unilateralities and claim that independence is in a different position with respect to this issue, also have the courage to possess on the table the obvious unilateralities that the State is bringing to an end and that, from our point of view, they are also illegalities that we have brought to the courts, and to damage the welfare and progress of Catalonia's citizens. In short, taxes that we pay and do not return, taxes that should be returned and that do not arrive. This is the status of the situation. But despite these limitations, we will not give up defining a fiscal policy that responds to the emergencies that we have as a company and we will not give up rehabilitating the problems that we have. The difficulties won't make us give up our political struggle. Faced with the great challenges facing current societies, it is growing socio-economic inequality and climate emergence, the policy of the Generalitat in Catalonia, which is expressed in this draft accompanying law, which aims to limit the margin of the standard mark, in the line not only of the political agreement on entries relating to these assumptions, but also to objectives which are reflected in the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations, and in other criteria that organizations at the international level have laid on the table. In this sense, the fiscal proposals that accompany the assumptions of the Generality want to deepen these objectives guaranteeing a certain level of resources, increasing the progressive nature of the tax system and promoting an inclusive and sustainable economic growth. And that is why they propose a set of measures that have been recommended for international organizations of all sizes. The OECD, even the International Monetary Fund, has questioned the imposition of inheritances, requiring it to apply much more, and to go beyond it..., and so on, that there are certain deviations, or the European Commission itself. As they are, these recommendations: the increase of tax on taxpayers with greater economic capacity, and in particular to reduce tax relief on estates granted to more comfortable strata of the population, and to increase environmental taxes. In other words, a redistribution of the fairest wealth, where pay more who has more, and pay less who has less. And a penalty in those whose economic activity has clear negative externalities, in the language of economists, but which have a clear negative impact on common language, on everyone, but to obtain particular benefits. It is for this reason that the bill of measures includes the agreement reached by the Government of Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú We can, in order to promote a tax reform that raises the generality's tax revenues in line to settle a fairer taxation and promote a solid and sustainable growth and fight against climate change. In a way, we face the complex challenge of pushing for better taxation within an unjust and clearly discriminatory financial framework. The nine measures that are planned will generate 553_millions to a full year. Obviously, the adoption of these assumptions and the very natural nature of some of the standards, for example those relating to inheritance taxes, and to the extent that we are of the year, cause that during this 2020 the increment is estimated to be 173_million euros additional for the year 2020. We can say a 45_per_cent, an amount equivalent to 45_per_cent of the cost of guaranteed citizenship income, which so many debates have brought to this Parliament, and therefore, it is important, we can't undo it. The debate on taxation on income and wealth, and progressively, has been a debate that has always been on the table when we have had parliaments. In fact, a Catalan Minister of Finance of the Republic, Jaume Carner, who pushed the first tax on income and wealth to the State, said: "I will be an unpopular minister, because I will make the rich pay. And there's probably a part of the debate we're going to have here that's going to go on this line, to hear that it's middle class that objectively looking at statistical data isn't, and the distribution of income isn't, which leads us to say that there's a disconnect in many media sectors and in certain political discourses about which is the reality of the entrances of the great majority; in fact, of the vast majority of families in our country. Someone might ask if in this scene this better redistribution of wealth is necessary and someone could point out that when we look at the inequality indicators, the Gini index, the S80/S20 ratio, which measures the proportion of income of this 20_per_cent richer than the population in reference to the 20_per_cent poorer. The two main indicators of inequality clearly show a small decrease in 2018 and, in fact, offer the lowest value since 2013, and the level of inequality with the behind, with the 80/20 ratio, but still continuous over the average values of the European Union and the euro area; therefore, the high mass still. We also find indicators of welfare and social progress, and for this reason we put them into the conception of this premise, which we know will include explaining also to what is not as well as wrong to improve, and that obviously someone will use it to make an apocalyptic description, without putting any proposal above the table. But these indicators measure, tell us that we are not able to reduce the poverty in the terms we want. The Survey of Living Conditions shows us a risk rate of poverty or social exclusion, the Arope tax, higher than that of the previous year. According to the latest data available, the poverty risk rate for the population is 24,7_per_cent, a 0.9_per_cent higher than the previous year; a higher rate in the women's collection, 27,5_per_cent, and in the lower age group, 31,2_per_cent, and we also see the poverty risk rate in the work increase and is at 14,4_per_cent, 2,2_per_cent higher than the later given. What do these figures, these numbers, these percentages and these indicators mean? So today there are still many people in this country who, while working, have seen a situation of poverty, that they cannot reach the end of the month with minimum and necessary dignity, that the increase in the cost of living has not been accompanied by an increase in wages, and that when it comes to competitiveness based on low wages, wage content in times of crisis, internal devaluation, it means that we have emerged from a crisis in global terms thanks, on the spaces of the working classes of Catalonia, which is the vast majority, and that, therefore, we need to activate policies of predisposition and redistribution in order to combat this inequality. In this sense we do not need to relax, in the predistributive field..., therefore, change the conditions of the market so that it is already the same market that offers, through public action and public intervention, some better starting conditions and then we have to increase with redistribution. We make a proposal that we also include in this draft bill of measures and that include the Project of Presumptions, which is a step forward, Catalonia's reference minimum wage, which aims to improve these lower wages on which it still weighs, therefore, the continuity of the crisis, the wage content, and which helps more intensively to redistribute the wealth complementarily or previously, in fact, in temporal terms, what the public sector does, with its transfers and its policies. And on another front, on which we obviously work and on which this bill focuses... it is in the area of fiscal policy, which we want to be fairer, more progressive and more environmental advocate, and, therefore, to cope with climate change. Therefore, before the unacceptable figures of inequality, poverty, a fairer taxation is essential, which helps us to move the country forward in a cohesive way and helps us to move the country forward together. Therefore, there are different tax measures that transform some of the taxes we have known. In the IRPF, the tax on the income of physical persons. With the aim of increasing the progress of this tax, we propose, first of all, to reduce the tax burden on taxpayers with a lower income level and increase it to what they have a higher income, maintaining the maximum type, which we can mark from here, which is 25.5_per_cent, and ensuring that there is no loss of revenue. So, two types of actions. First of all, by contributing at a lower income level, the exempt minimum increases by 10_per_cent, and, for another band, we rebalance the higher rate trams. The increase of this minimum 10_per_cent will favor 205,849 taxpayers, who are all contributors with an income of less than 12,450_€ per year. It is certain that the impact is not as much as we would like, in fact, we would like to lower the IRPF on the first tram, but obviously, for the cost it has, and then it would also reduce the tax burden of who else it is, because the first two and a thousand euros of the one that it pays a hundred and a thousand euros are paid all at the same rate, also of the one that it charges only one, but it is a first step, and we believe that we are adapting it to the actual purchasing capacity in Catalonia; therefore, it will have a minimum major exemption to that of the State, and therefore, taking into account that the cost of living in our country is higher than the state average, in line with the idea of the minimum wage of reference to Catalonia, which it also pursues. Therefore, we extend the minimum exemption to these declarants, the less than EUR 12,450, increase with this effect the progressivity of the tax and rebalance the upper trams. To the upper trams they hold a similar width. There was a large tram that paid 21.5_per_cent in the autonomous fare, then there was the state of the IRPF, which went from 53,000 to 120,000 euros, and what we do is divide it into two trams: 53,407 to 90,000, from 90,000 to 120,000. This tram from 90,000 to 120,000 is where there is an increase from 21.5 to 23.5_per_cent, and to the tram from 120,000 to 175,000 pass from 23.5 to 24.5_per_cent. Are these the middle classes of Catalonia? No, no, Whoever says this is lying – is lying – because it is impossible for the 1.5_per_cent of the higher returns declared by IRPF to return to Catalonia to the middle class. It's impossible by definition; it's impossible by definition. Should it be accompanied, this measure, by far more extensive measures to combat the great riches that escape from the tribute of the common mortals? Of course, they are, but they are standards that require cooperation, not only at state level, but also at European level – at European level – about the great fortunes of other forms of taxation. Because from a single territory we can't do it. It is always the province to compare us with the autonomous community of the cost when the decisions for the location of the great capitals at global level are not between Barcelona or Madrid; it is between London or Lisbon, between Luxemburg or Tori. It's not in the same state. And so, considering all this, we think it's a good measure – it's a good measure. In the field of inheritance tax. This is one of the taxes that certainly carries an ideological burden, because it allows a redistribution in line to guarantee the equality of opportunities, while obviously preserving the own family heritage that has accumulated at the length of life, but obviously stifling, in the transmission of this heritage – in the transmission of this heritage–, so also a share of taxation that allows us to redistribute and allocate these resources to generate equal opportunities. Therefore, the purpose of the changes we propose is to have greater power to redistribute the inheritance tax. There are autonomous communities that are opting to drastically reduce this tax, but the disparities in wealth in Catalonia tell us that we have to do the opposite, that we have to strengthen it. And you don't say that this government, and you don't say that the Catalonian Parliamentary Group in Comú Can, and you don't say that the Economics Councilor, accused of confiscating the capital of the great employer in Catalonia – which we haven't been able to do, anyway. International Monetary Funds, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development..., say precisely that this is one of the taxes that generates the most redistributive capacity. And that's why what we're proposing – and here I'm going to go into some technical elements –..., reintroducing the multiplier coefficients of the pre-existing assets to the Group I and II contributors. What do you mean? That it is not the same to inherit 200,000 euros for the one who has 2 million than for the one who has nothing. And, therefore, the one who has 2_million euros, if he does not inherit 200,000, will pay a little more than the one who has nothing. I, therefore, introduce a redistributive variable. We also propose the reduction of the existing bonus. As you know, the structure of the tax is that in the end a bonus is applied, which goes down, this bonus, as you have greater inheritance. So what we do is adapt it, make it more progressive. Therefore, the reduction between 4 and 25 percentage points. And we keep the 99_per_cent bonus for the spouse; therefore, a widow or a widow, therefore, when he reprehenses the inheritance of his dead companion. In the field of capital transfers and documented legal acts. It is an indirect tax, but we also propose measures to give it a certain progressive capacity. They already know that indirect taxes that engrave consumption, therefore, do not have this progressive capacity such as taxes that engrave income or capital. But let's apply..., we create a reduced type of 5-per-cent for single-parent families in the property transmissions of any property that they pay for ITP, with the limitation that they have the rest of the reduced type assumptions. Therefore, we incorporate single-parent families into the reduced types of legislation. This is a measure that also has an obvious burden of fighting against gender inequality in the fiscal sphere. Because taxes don't say they're going to pay more a woman than a man in the ITP, but it's true that the characterization of single-parent families in our country, basically, is a mother for her children. This is the reality of single-parent families. Therefore, this measure, therefore, will also directly affect the start of having a little bit of lila an area as successful as the country's fiscal policy. The remainder of the reduced type assumptions, therefore, are based on the fact that the taxable base, minus the personal and family minimum, is less than EUR 30 thousand per year. Or the measure, for example, to restrict, in heritage transmissions, the application of the quota in those acquisitions of housing by real estate companies that subsequently return them. Therefore, we restrict those bonuses for which it is not a property transfer of an individual who buys a habitat for living there, but for those who make a legitimate business, but then we do not have to apply the same bonuses. Therefore, the deadline for reselling habitat has been three years in five-year accounts. For another band, therefore, there are different tax measures that affect negative externalities, the effects on the common population or the total population, or the environment, that generate different economic activities. One is a reform of the tax on stays in tourist establishments, given that from this tax we already have a long trajectory, an experience, in which we have seen that, contrary to what it is said when it was approved, it has not had an incidence either in the name of overnight stays that it is made in Catalonia, nor in the average spending of tourism that tourists make in Catalonia, that it has not; therefore, it has not had this incidence. And therefore, from this experience, we believe it is opportune to increase the import of tariffs with the aim of obtaining a higher level of recaptancy to enhance sustainable and quality tourism and to improve the externalities that in some areas generate the concentration of this activity. Therefore, we foresee an increment of 21_million euros. In the second place, the tax on empty habitats and the tax on sugar beet. In the tax on housing... In these two taxes, changes are introduced to focus on..., to reinforce the purposes that have made them adopt: first place, reduce the estoc of empty floors, and, second place, encourage changes in the behavior in consumption and production of sugar beakers. In the case of empty dwellings, we reduce the tax relief that applies to those housing estates, i.e., in companies that own empty dwellings, that allocate a part of their stock of dwellings to a comparable dwelling, therefore, with the aim of reducing the volume of empty dwellings. With regard to the tax on sugary drinks, which we have been applying for three years now, let us update the tax types, which are not a certain percentage, are fixed cents, and therefore also with the evolution of the cost of living, with the evolution of prices, it has to be updated, and also with the experience that we have. We create a new tax on installations that affect the environment. In line with the intention to fight climate change, which this morning has been one of the important elements in the presentation of assumptions, we propose, therefore, to extend the environmental tax category with a new figure: the tax on installations affecting the environment, which places the risk of deterioration caused to Catalonia by the realization of certain activities, such as the production, storage or transformation of electrical energy, or the transport of electrical, telephone and, therefore, telematic transport, carried out for those fixed elements of the electrical energy sub-administration or of the communications networks, with the aim of internalizing costs– the costs of damage and environmental risks– to enterprises. Obviously, this tax leaves no subject – therefore, it does not affect – activities oriented to self-consumption or the production of electricity produced by solar, wind, biomass and biogas, and therefore also gives an exemption in those installations of public ownership. This tax, like the rest of the bill, was imposed on the Conseil de Treball Economique et Social de Catalunya, which recommended that we have incorporated, and therefore in line not to affect the hydropower production of energy, because, therefore, it is a net production, and, therefore, also because those areas of cogeneration remain outside. This is a valid tax on Extremadura; declared constitutional for the Constitutional Court in the past year. Valencia also has a tax on production activities, storage and energy transformation. The Rioja, Castella and Lleó and Aragó have a tax on the visual impact produced for electrical energy sub-administration elements and fixed elements of telephone or telematic communications networks. Therefore, we are not introducing anything that the Constitutional Court has to stop. It is a bet based on an already existing tax that what we do is adapt it to the Catalan reality. This package of nine green taxation measures will complement us in the future with two measures under consideration. In the first place, the tax on economic activities that generate carbon dioxide, and, in the second place, the tax on the emissions of large ships in ports. I also want to remind you that this year 2020 we will first recapitulate the CO2 emissions tax on mechanical traction vehicles. Finally, let me reproduce a part of the text of the presuppositional agreement signed between the Government of Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode, and I think it sums up perfectly what I have tried to explain. Says the agreement: "In this sense, one of the keys to this presuppositional agreement is the better of the entrances from a fairer and more progressive taxation, so as to guarantee rights and opportunities for everyone and also bet for green taxation to fight the climate emergency. These are the tips of a taxation that, we cannot forget, affects a smaller part of the Generality's revenues, still heavily conditioned by a clearly insufficient financing system and repeated State failures. A_marc, therefore, complex, as is also the combination of reality that we have to manage, but that forces us to give the most appropriate answers with the instruments that we have. A necessary condition – to use these instruments – to be more and more likely to be able to hold them all, all the instruments that deserve to be held by this Parliament, in our abyss. Therefore, I hope that we can give processing to this bill of law necessary because of what we foresee in the Generality's premise in the area of expenses you have guaranteed tickets. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.191.0	Thank you, Vice President. It is now the turn of the intervention of parliamentary groups and sub-groups, beginning, first of all, for those who have submitted a report to the totality, and from major to minor, according to the Bureau's agreement. Therefore, it has the word in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.192.0	Counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon. The Ciutadans Group presents today a statement to the totality of the Bill on fiscal, administrative and public sector measures, and on the creation of the tax on installations affecting the environment. Next, I'll detail the reasons for which we present this item to the totality. First of all, this bill is not credible, it is more, in the part that refers to fiscal measures, from a purely economic point of view, to the inverse. Second of all, they don't respond to a planned strategy. There is no future project, no long-term plan, no short-term plans; they are speculative. They haven't been approved, we're discussing them, and they're no longer valid, they're cool. It's been a while. Build a presupposition of this form and then get the final number is first of secondary. Thirdly, the assumptions on which these fiscal measures are based are a mere fallacy, arguments which seem valid, but which are not. I want to believe that it is not intended but that it is responsible that these measures have been prepared for correctness, that they have struggled because they are in a hurry, because their government is in an advanced state of decomposition. [[Greetings.]] Improvisation, when it's numbers, it's not the best company. Later, budgets do not fit and this causes difficult consequences: assumptions calculated by multiplying the last approved assumption by a percentage, because it has not been taken into account that the assumptions for 2020 are lower than those actually produced by 2019. And lastly, I think that, to respect the contributor, it is not fair not to explain the truth to them. Tickets will be obtained basically from taxes that will pay the same as usual. We should also explain to them that if we pass and we can't get to the front door, nothing will happen, we'll have the comfort, the tapaforats served. Ostres! That's what they say... what do they say? The Spanish State, isn't it? The Spanish State was the one who said "we're handling public money, aren't we? "and public money is nobody's. But neither is the Spanish State now what it turns out that we're... we're talking to him on the dial table. We have a lot of confusion about the respect of this appeal. And now I've developed these points that I've been thinking about. Why are they inverse? Very easy. As we would say in the real world of private enterprises, they are not absorbable, they are not insoluble; the assumptions must respond to an underlying economic context: tax measures based on desires that do not take into account what is going on in the real world are fictitious tax measures. The bottle he saw the government when he introduced these tax measures is about to explode. Please, for everyone's sake, lay low. And I'm telling them why assumptions about what these assumptions are supposed to work are: first, that resources are inexhaustible; sometimes, with you, I have the feeling that money is in the taxpayers' pockets accidentally. They have taxpayers' money with staggering joy. To indicate, of course, that it is not against paying taxes, that I believe, and I say that I am convinced, that citizenship is not against paying taxes, but rather against the use it takes. Seeing as there are advisors, other roles and certain people who are hired under a lot over market prices, for example, or education deficiencies or health waiting lists produce outrage. Not only that, they act with the aggravation that if they do not recapture what they have predicted – that they will not do so – they will already be at the state's father to give us a hand; they have the absolute certainty that they will not let us fail. Here I'd like to introduce a concept that I think is important and that I'm sure they've listened to before: the moral hazard, a concept that I would always suggest that we take more into account when making their decisions. The moral hazard explains the risky behaviour of economic agents who do not suffer the consequences of their decisions. It's clear that, like the first one he's planning to fail is Mr. Sanchez, his board member, and if he does, why shouldn't he do it to you? You act irresponsiblely in matter financed because you don't fan them for the consequences of acting without taking into account the moral hazard. According to them, the resources are at zero cost, so much if they are to be indebted as if they are those coming from our taxes, they do not have for you any cost; for you, public money has no cost. Another thing that is quite different is the cost that citizens who pay taxes bear: the cost of opportunity and the cost of financing, which, I repeat, we would do well if we could see that its social reversal is found. And please don't take another look at the issue of the tax deficit: those who bear the tax deficit are the taxpayers, who we see as our taxes only serve to finance their debts. Third, time. [[Some applause.]] Time, I repeat, you, and in the case of these assumptions even more, play boldly in time. First, because they are assumptions that, if they get out, they will be approved for execution..., but they will be executed by others – as you yourself have recognized this morning – conditioning, more than likely, the pocket of the own government that won the elections or perhaps already know that they will win and these assumptions, moreover, are a exercise of political prepotence. And then, because the assumptions that now come to us can incorporate any increment, in fact, they can satisfy their members of Can knowing that they are absolutely unbelievable, because their only purpose is to serve their electoral interests. If they approve of them, they might say that they are the most social of the story, that is not true, since in many of the headings we are not returning to the pre-crisis level, neither in nominal terms nor in real terms. And if they don't approve, they can always blame us, huh? , projecting responsibility to others and not responding to your own is very common between you. Second, they don't respond to a future strategy. Plus, they don't respond to any kind of strategy. They carry a few years without running, they're in a window of escape room without going out or it may be that the team members who are playing have no idea how to get out. Miri, we're going to have to evolve. For example, its assumptions do not include concepts such as VUCA: volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. What we're living with these days with the Mobile theme is an example. We can't pretend to present elaborate assumptions with past century techniques, and push ahead with XXI century problems. They haven't evolved. The assumptions, and the input ones, it is advisable to make them under the most conservative hypothesis, that of the worst-case scenario, and also incorporate the most advanced technologies with presuppositional technique that incorporate uncertainty as the explanatory variable. To say that they will recover 11,500_million euros in direct taxes, for example, is inverse, given that it has been calculated that the economic situation will follow not so much more or less the same, but that it previews a scene much better than that of the past year. This same morning – this same morning – he said ex-cathedra that the growth of Catalonia will be the forecast for you: 1,9_per_cent, and that it will be superior to that of the European media and Spanish. Well, a whole self-confidence exercise. Look at you, you don't deserve any confidence. You have shown that you are unable to bring forward a common project, to lead one of the most powerful economies in Europe. The assumptions that today carry us in are the most paradigmatic example, advancing to the trumpets. They already know that man is the only animal that gets in the middle of two shots on the same rock, but that's his vice. These assumptions don't teach us a long-term strategy of the future, let alone that we already have another data: within two years they're already independent. Now the new date is 2030, and the mystique of this tape will be the thread of our community. Oblivion another moment of reality: we will not allow it, oblivion it. [[Some applause.]] You're incapable of running an autonomous community, you just have to see the social indicators we have. The Spanish government has just reduced its growth forecast by two tenths by 2020, leaving it at 1.6_per_cent. It does not seem credible that we have finished 2019 growing tie and that the forecast of growth in 2020 in Catalonia follows the '1,9_per_cent and Spain in its conjunction, of a 1,6_per_cent, especially after we have been repeating ourselves a thousand times, and it is certain, that deceleration is mainly due to our open character. It does not seem that account has been taken of the forecasts of the evolution of the world GDP during this 2020. Improbable elements, black signs like the coronavirus crisis, which can cost 280,000_millions_of_dollars worldwide, is not likely to have any effects at our home. An exhibition of what can happen and that shows that they cannot make overly optimistic approaches – and do not tell us that we are catastrophic – is the effects that have been, and are very concerned, in the Fira de Barcelona, on the Fira del Mobile. We agree that these situations cannot be predicted, but what cannot be done is to set up a presumption by making these forecasts without considering that there may be alien factors that can substantially change them. In fact, it can, and it can if what they claim is not to make a presumption that it has a certain applicability to our community, but only serve as an electoral lever. Which they can do, obviously, but they don't come to us right now with the wheel of morays that are good administrators and concerned about the assembly of Catalan citizens. What they simply want is to be able to sell that they have made a presumptuous social assumption, and say, presumably because it is materially impossible for them to recapture what they say they would recapture. And as the expenses to which they are committed are sure, the only way they carry these assumptions forward – you, or who take over their replete – will be to push taxes or to be indebted. It's to say, go to the FFA for another drink, and that it's the conjunct of Spaniards that pays her irresponsibility. That's what I gave him: the moral hazard. Like it's not you who's gonna pay for it, as much as it does. Why don't we create their recaptancy hypothesis? Miri, 2018, last year of which we certainly have data, the recaptancy was 9,532_million euros, and now they hope to recaptrate, the 2020, 11,575, is to say a 21,4_per_cent more. Now it's been done that he's made the push of taxes to the higher tram. Jo, the truth is, I don't get the numbers, huh? Yes... is the truth such a small amount, the total effect that this increase will have on who it will get? In 2019 the recap at the level of all Spain increased by 4_per_cent. We are talking about the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, in which it has grown in important taxes. If they expect to grow up with their simulation, which is the optimist, under 2019, why do they think they get the remaining 18_per_cent? How did the tickets fit? With the balance square machine? With the machine that... - I'm going to repeat it again, I'm sorry. How did they do it? A total of €1,300_million is missing under the heading of direct taxes. It's all about a new push of taxes. We're good to go. And for what it does to VAT, another small deviation: it is an indirect tax and depending on the level of consumption. If you expect a reduction, encouragement, deceleration... – tell 'what you want to do,' say 7,705_millions? 2018 is coming back – and it's the current record– 7.353; 2019's recap has reduced by 1.4_per_cent: 7.249_millions. It's the best of cases. If you repeat the recap of 2019 we would miss 456_million euros. Keep going. The ITP and the AJD. They're out of the real estate market today. 2019 was 3,3_per_cent. There are obvious signs that the sector can enter a stagnant stage, but you predict that it will meet 2018 will be a 12.25_per_cent more. As they can prove, certainly policies end up having pernicious effects. With estates, we'll make a separate point. Who are the forecasts you have on the city council to think that the entries for this concept will increase by 38_per_cent compared to 2018? So many will die? It also happens with current transfers, since it is doubtful what is assumed to respect the waste in 2018 and 2019; it is to say, more or less 2,500_millions of overestimation. I hope I didn't scare your government partners and the rest of the satellite. And if the expenses are indeed, then they will be compromised, and it seems that the tickets have been overestimated. What's going to happen? So you're going to have to push taxes or pull a deficit another time. They'll have him on the dial table already. And the 79,000_million debt, which in all these years of growth has not been able to reduce, will grow again, as in the good times of the tripartite. And the advisor's assertion that the difference respects that of 2010 was that the same but without deficiency is reversed, it cannot be completed. With respect to propitious taxes. The estimate is about 305_million. A lot of soroll for so few of us. Very little, in the end, for the recaptancy and discomfort that it generates among the citizens, which above all sees that these taxes that pretend to have some finalist objectives end up serving to cover holes in other departments. In addition to the poor recaptancy, should we see, disregard the administrative expenditure generated by its recaptancy, how much really remains of the fiscal effort of all Catalans? And I'll give you another data: the sub-heads of the high charges and contingent personnel are €25,380,000, and the correspondents of the direct staff of the public enterprises are €11,472,000. That is to say, the subs of the direct, digital election staff, it is almost 37_million euros; it is to say, that all that it collects for sugary drunks, or CO2 emissions, or the nitrous oxides plus the civil protection, plus the non-productive acts of legal persons, plus the "bad lives, all folds do not arrive to pay for all these subs. I would not want to end up without insisting, once more, that making this law serve as a cul-de-sac where a whole series of normative dispositions that the Government cherishes to the citizenry, by integrating them all into a parliamentary process – many of them need much more than the few minutes that we dislodge to them – is not precisely to improve the democratic quality of their government. In summary, the increment of the recaptancy will, as always, fall on the same ones as always: the middle class and the working class. We think that their assumptions are not real, they are not adjusted to reality, they are overestimated and they will only give little back to justify new tax breaks, or to the creation of new tax figures, just when, for the moment of the economic cycle in which we are, we should be in the completely competitive situation. Another time we would be entering a period of economic contraction with the little change, with more taxes, more bureaucracy, more unproductive spending and more deficit. All the opposite of what is expected to be done by a solvent government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.193.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is the turn of the deputy Assumpta Escarp. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.194.0	Good night, because already almost... President, Vice President, Members, Members, you see that the year 2020 is the year of responsibility, and I say this because, hearing the interventions of the debate before what we have had to this law of measures, so everyone has made some big calls to responsibility. And they'll forgive me and before they get into the measurement law, I'd like to do some thing about that. For example, Vice President Aragonès said..., on the recaptation of the VAT of 2017; but here too there is an irresponsibility, Vice President, because if you had voted on the assumptions of 2019, we would now have this recapitation, because it was there, and therefore you rejected it. Mrs. Albiach was also talking to us about responsibility and at some point of frivolity, right? But it really doesn't seem very responsible to me that if it is said that the formula and the legislature Together for Catalonia and Esquerra is exhausted we give it now oxygen to continue moving forward. Anyway, it's to make things clear. As Vice President Aragones also said before – and as I punch the Health Spokesman, so I couldn't help it – it is well known that we always spend more on Health. And I remembered the words of the President of the Drug College of the other day, who clearly said that he was no longer irresponsible and no longer posing more than 1,000_million who did not pose at the pharmaceutical expense. And so, in a way, when responsibility is called for, each should assume its own. My group also takes care of those who are close to him. So let's talk about the measurement bill. And of the Bill of Measures, the Vice-President has made an introduction or presentation, basically, on the issues of fiscal and financial measures. He has not referred to all the changes that are made in the field of the public sector, which in this proposal bring us this year, so there are many. You already warn and say in the preamble of the law that we live with the prorogation of assumptions of 2017, so you have had to enter, quantitatively and qualitatively, say, a broad number of measures that configure the law. I have had the feeling that you were waiting for these assumptions to put it all between, we would fix on the tickets, the debate about the responsibilities and, in any case, we would pass through, too, some of the modifications that they present here and that we have been called to our attention. Anyway, I don't know if those who feel so responsible with the assumptions, also feel so responsible with this law. In fact, CTESC has already said that they have already reported a very similar preliminary draft of assumptions to this year 2019, and that they have somehow done little to them. Today the vice-president explained that in terms of energy it is the case. But it's true that it's not going to happen. You're changing more than twenty laws in this law, some creations of organisms; you're reading all of them approved for this Parliament and some more important ones, huh? The Law of Urbanism or, above all, the Law of Water. And, somehow, they don't understand why they've waited from 2017 until now to make all these changes, but what's still less so is why they've excluded Parliament from discussing these changes, or, in the case of the Urban Law, to process the land law; or, in the case of water, to do what we've talked about so many times here, that it's a parliamentary water pact in Catalonia and to stop making the four modification pages that substantially modify the Water Law. This law accompanies, as you said, a few assumptions, beyond all modifications. For us, bad assumptions; assumptions that don't improve on 2017– and so we've been making it clear also in previous interventions– and that they don't really recover this lost decade. We spoke this morning... Mrs. Albiach was asking the president about these 500_millions of the two tenths of the deficit that was granted to the Economic and Financial Policy Council. And of course, the president didn't answer it. I must say that he did not reply to the 500_million, which I hope they are negotiating, but he did not reply to them on the date of the elections. That's to say they clearly haven't returned them. And so, man, I'd love to know, because, anyway, it's hard, right? Now, with a hunch that there's a part that we don't even know what it's meant for right now. We share, and you know, each other, a good part of tax measures. And they know that because most of the proposed measures were part of a proposal that then the group that is said to be Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the Socialists Group we presented in the press release of 2016 and in 2017. It was a proposal with the objective at that time, already, to generate major inputs to address the growing economic inequality and advance us to the environmental challenges. That's how 2017 was specified. That year, if I'm not mistaken – and I'm telling you quite clearly – you didn't support it, and we had to wait until 20, when a pact made them correct, and I think I'm glad. Therefore, we have to share them, because among other things we have been part of these proposals, even though we are not now, in the debate and discussion of the assumptions. You present modifications, as explained earlier by the Vice-President, on empty habitats, large settlements, stays in touristic establishments, sugar beguds, IRPF, heritage, heritage transmissions. But if it were approved when they presented it and so on the very assumptions of the 17th, today we will have more than 500 million instead of the 170 million that will run until 2020, because they would already have a decent year. And, therefore, I repeat here what the CTESC says: "The greater number of entries resulting from the application of these measures will hardly be enough to cope with the situation of social emergence that has repeatedly been denounced in this Parliament, nor will it facilitate the investments that are necessary to give the Catalan economy the possibility of being rehabilitated and projected at a time of serious uncertainty. It also adds the CTESC – and since you say it is useful to tell them – that the impact assessment memory provides insufficient information to assess the import of the fee that is proposed in relation to the cost of the service. And it seems to me that before, in the previous intervention, the deputy of Ciutadans. There are some of the tax changes that are proposed that have not really been..., or we might say, to say the least, that there has been a lack of dialogue with the economic, social or local world sectors, at least so that we have proposals for proposals, or, in any case, many times proposed for acclaim, because there has not been a pre-emptive pact. And at the expense of these tax measures that modify appropriate taxes, given, as we have explained, and of tax changes, they delete twenty-one taxes, and they delete them with a very... phrase, which says: "no practical applicability, that we would like to know if it is really so null, practical applicability. And if it really is possible to recover – since we believe in nine – some of the taxes there are. With regard to the tax on empty dwellings – it seems to me that Mrs Ibarra when the housing decree was validated here – the only one they propose is to modify the bonuses to which they belong from their housing stock to social logger, but do not increase the tax types, which we thought was what had to be done. And since I'm talking about housing, so, a point, I'm taking advantage of it here. You change the Heritage Law and continue without dedicating to social housing the immobile benefits that the Generality acquires by title of intested success, that it has followed a social debate that has followed many times and that I see they continue to reiterate. It is true– and I have already told him that we agreed– that we should incorporate criteria into the taxation of environmental impacts and risks, that they should start to respond or that they want to respond to climate change, and, in this sense, the tax is created on installations that affect the environment. And she calls me attention – in positive, I say – that the finalist tribute has as before the tax of the Autonomous Community of Extremadura. You, who said a while ago that comparing yourself to the autonomous community on the side is a bit of a province. « We compare ourselves to Extremadura. Stupend, huh? I totally agree. But sometimes, like the cost of them raising their eyes beyond ourselves, so it surprised me. Then you made some reference too. And here was the debate about whether it could open up the possibility to open up recaptated imports for this tax measure were intended more clearly for purposes tending to repair the impact on the environment generated by the taxed activities. We agree with the tax on... the whole issue of energy transport, the share of production, storage and transformation. There has been a change in hydraulics, considering it also renewable. But somehow we should also open the debate about the fact that we don't generate enough energy at this time in Catalonia, not just renewable energy, and, therefore, we should also think about where we are going. And we entered into the reform of the IRPF, which we have demanded, was also in those measures that we had proposed to them, and that we had demanded them also more valiant with a reform of this type, so as to maybe touch the higher trams more, over 120,000 euros, that there is a tram that they touch, but less. It is clear that we agree that it pays more who has more, but also, above all, it fights against fraud and the submerged economy, that it is the real steps of progress and redistribution, which is what we are claiming through this increase of the IRPF and other taxes and taxes. You change a lot of things in the Public Finance Act. And to me concretely, my group calls attention to all this new article on multi-annual presupposable scenes. You approve of assumptions in a theoretically exhausted legislature to call a few elections, but leave us an approved assumption, huh? They call, they want to call, but they leave us an approved premise. And then they add an article that marks the annual assumptions of the next four years, because they establish that all the expenditure has to be fixed with multi-year presupposed scenes, and more, they say, "that will mark the annual assumptions of the next four years. It is to say that the saying: they will present each of you, we will present ourselves to the elections, but they will have marked us the assumptions of 2020 – assuming that we call them this year – and the four years later, for the presupposed scenes that you mark us, with determination of amounts, and subdue the nine actions to be contemplated in these scenes. I don't know, I don't find it very democratic, but, anyway, I can be very wrong. There are some other measures in this law of measures that are surprising. And one is the profound modification of the General Intervention of the Generality and of the legal services of the Generality, and they don't make reference to the tickets, which is to which you have made reference. But it's surprising, a profound change in intervention and judicial circles. From the outset, we are obliged to engage outsiders in legal services; we are bringing some things to the legal services of some bodies and we are moving to the central legal services; we are extending legal defence to employees and to all types of non-working people, but you will work, to others and employees, and we are bringing crime..., free from crimes against public administration. And in the field of General Intervention, much of the General Intervention's skills in managing the financial economy are expanded; indeed, they come directly into the management – a surprising thing – more modern. Jo, look, everything that's under control, transparency and good governance, always. But these two changes make us think that some political decisions have had an impact on the Public Administration of the Generality and that this influence makes you see now with the obligation to protect more or less a state or a national body, or the very workers of the Generality, also expanding the legal realms. It's a feeling; I may be wrong. But, look, this feeling is given when all the counselors and counselors come to present the assumption to the commissions, to explain the assumption, the increments that there are, as they see it, as they don't see it, the one they believe..., and never explain the measurement laws to us. And there are many, the sectoral changes in the field of personnel, also in the field of tickets, which are intended... I think it would be a good democratic technique that could also explain what influence they have on the sector that is explaining the measures proposed in the field of the law of measures that accompany the presumption. Because, in the background, it is always this chalice of tailors that we find everything: from that dream of Mr. Vidal Aragonese that we were not able to enter over the Public Health Agency – congratulations to whoever it is, Mr. Aragonese; you know that I was in favour of this dream – like some of the other things you mentioned earlier, right? , as for example the municipal vigilantes, if we neglect, we almost pose them as agents of the authority. And I see that you have done everything in your power to get us on the day we agree with the 2017 Summer Contract Law and, therefore, stop being so close to all those businesses that can't be and have someone else. I, before I run out of time, just one thing. You modify the Autonomous Entity of Gambling and Gambling. Two points. For a band, they don't talk about marketing and distribution, which is a topic that I know their partners are worried about. And the other is: they foresee the transformation of this entity into an anonymous society. And all of a sudden I thought it was that... I don't know, that they wanted to sell it to her? Because it's an entity that gives funds, that plus the funds are finalists and they go to social foundations, and the truth, like no one sees and explains the law of measures, so forgive my ignorance, but I was surprised that we are an anonymous society. My group will not only present this item to the totality... which, if rejected, some of the items that have been presented... among them, on other administrations that have not taken into account its criteria. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.195.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is now the turn of the deputy Mr Vidal Aragonese. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.196.0	Good evening. The negotiation of assumptions has been made more by the investment agreements of the State and the assumptions of the Barcelona City Council than by the content they have or have to have. In a year, practically – we can't say exact date – we will have a new parliament, we will have a new government and we will have these assumptions approved, certainly in advance, but they will not solve absolutely with regard to the essential problems of our people: from the right to study in a public teaching center of our walls in a large city or the right to study in our own village, the situation of the DGAIA, the lists of expectations of the sanitation, the temporality of the public sector... Re de résulta neither to the Law of Presuppositions nor in this law of accompanying. And even so, many questions can be asked with a reality, that of our autonomy, absolutely intervened. And what is the central element to be able, as a minimum, to try to donate alternatives? So increase the tickets. And we say we don't want to cheat: to increase the tickets, we need to push the tribute. And this fiscal reform of Junts for Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, we characterise it like this – and now we explain why –, it was moved to this parliamentary subgroup on September 3, 2019. At that time, we said it was all insufficient. Of course, we're still waiting for them to call us back and give us the information we asked for. Some of us are in a position to negotiate, but we are still in the process of being tricked and given information or quoted in a subsequent meeting. And it changes with regard to this characterization because the commons now support this fiscal agreement or because they go on to walk these other ultra-liberals through the radios and televisions of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Let's get to the concrete; the concrete: IRPF. First of all, no more than 60,000, only more than 90,000, and between 120,000 and 175,000. Let's explain what it means, because everyone can hear it, that's what it means. A person who does not have a pair, has no children to charge and collects 110,000 euros, the only more he will pay for this tax reform will be twenty-five euros per month; 110,000 euros. Is this the radical tax reform that it was presenting? They also say to us: "They make proposals. So, look, we're carrying many years of proposals in the tax and tax field, and we're asking them to reform the IRPF for those that cover more than 60,000 euros. It would be a waste that, in a situation of patience of our people like the present, those who cover these amounts may bring more. And what this tax reform will mean is only 31 million more by 2020. Impost of estates and donations? So let's stay with what the Economic Advisor explained: "So, look, it's a recommendation from the IMF. You can already imagine, if you are applying a recommendation from the IMF, the authentic character that will have this reform. And to donate another data: inheritance, children of the sea, 250,000_euros, 75,000_euros in habitual habitation..., what will they pay? What will be the total they'll pay? EUR 2.932_. Most direct taxes have a much higher tax than this reform. On the tax of empty habitats, of states in touristic establishments, of sweet beguds..., we can refer them one to one, but we can do, because we do not have time, a general characterization. They increase, they are updated, but they are slight increases, they are not progressive fiscal policies to equal the sacrifices; absolutely insufficient therefore. We are not against it, but obviously what we say is that they are absolutely insufficient. What does this tax reform entail in relation to the 2020 budget? 0.61_per_cent, 173_million more. And, obviously, with this we cannot give answers to the needs of our people. The commons, the Socialists Group and the CUP have been making plans for later governments in relation to how to increase the tax for more than 60,000, and the one that does not make more than 675,000, that do not touch; but there are no answers, or the answers have been negative. And obviously, if it doesn't focus on spending, it's nullifying the will to really address the essential problems of the majority. And we want to remember that always the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, in all the questions and questions that it does about whether it charges more – and they even talk about references of 60,000 – it has to pay more, that they answer mostly, Catalans and Catalans, that yes. Therefore, not only an effective policy to give answers, but they also support the majority of Catalans and Catalans. We also want to analyse as a minimum, Economic Advisor, to what you have not explained to us and to what practically, except the Socialist Group, no one has mentioned, that it is the non-tax measures and taxes of this law. We think that no progressive group can support the content of these. Let's start analyzing some of them. Article 81, amends the rules on incompatibilities. Silences administration denied. Is that the answer you give? Article 85, municipal vigilantes. It can't be that they want to turn municipal vigilantes into authorities, into agents of authority. And not only because you won't work, but because you don't feel it. Also, sanctioning procedure for workers and workers in the public sector, who move from the system to the eight-month period. This is not guaranteed for the workers. All in all, it's creating uncertainty. Article 110 – we were pleased that you were here today, Mr. Calvet, because you explained it to us very well – repartition. They constitute the prescription at three years. This, of course, is to strengthen the position of the great properties against the public administration and, essentially, against the assemblies. And then, Article 135, tourism. We will not interpret, if we read three separate parts, we will not interpret anything. Tourist accommodation – the one they propose, everything we read –: « Any establishment, housing, installation or regulated infrastructure for tourist regulations in which tourist accommodation services are prestined. Tourist companies are physical or legal persons who provide tourist accommodation or mediation services in the accommodation. By means of a regular arrangement, you can create tourist accommodation modalities and regulate their conditions and characteristics. We are saying that this will be withdrawn, because the commons will obviously ask you to do so, and you cannot declare war on the barrel of which you suppose in the modification with regard to the tourist accommodation regime. And, lastly, we want to assess two less positive questions of the economic adviser's intervention, especially this morning. In the first one, he said: "all infants have the same opportunities, as a presupposition objective. So, look, with these assumptions, all of us here are very clear that these infants will become 20_per_cent poor, that when they vagrate to school good part of these and these will not actually be able to sort school at their bar or at their village and see segregation, and that they will pass to a higher percentage to be poor workers and workers. And the last sentence that we also want to put in the value of the Economic Advisor: "A premise is a tool of social transformation. Quite a few times, Vice President, it could be, but this is social subtitling. This assumption has little social transformation, not to mention. And very subtly. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.197.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.198.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, the major entries of these assumptions respect to that of 2017 come basically from two sources: 4,174_millions of the financing model, of us entries that the financing model brings, and 172_millions that brings the new taxation that is implemented from the law of measures that we have before and that we debate. This Law of tax measures amends seven taxes, creates a new tax, amends forty-three taxes, amends three of the taxes transferred; the financial and public sector measures amend thirty-one laws; the administrative measures amend thirty-four laws; it has fifteen additional provisions, transitional provisions and final provisions. If I haven't erred, it's 158 dispositions. I get a few more than two seconds for each of them. Obviously, I will focus on what I can focus on, which is the tax issue, which is certainly the most critical and which, moreover, is the same as the counselor did, having freedom of time and therefore can be inherited much more. In tax matters, change the residue canon, increase it by 52_per_cent. In four years, it's true. This is already predicted that the next few years may not have presupposed it, and therefore the increment is already approved, and so on, huh? That's all we're getting away with. The water canon has not been mentioned, but the water canon is activated for rowing uses, and the rowers are... are happy, to say the least. Change the tax on empty habitats. Let's go back..., precisely let's go back to the social housing subsidies – so, it's a policy that I didn't quite hear – and let's go back to the social housing subsidies in the case of big landowners. In the tax of stays in touristic establishments, increase the tax, increase a new figure, which are that of the crucibles that merge outside the port, etcetera. In addition to the approval of the Barcelona Recourse, detached from the tourist promotion, that this was the main argument for the implementation of the tourist tax. Therefore, from this moment on the tourist tax is no longer, in the case of Barcelona, it will no longer be only a tax to collect money and to allocate to tourism, but it will be simply – simply and purely – afany recaptatori, in this case on behalf of the Barcelona Assembly. Of course, I don't think I should tell you that we disagree strongly about this visit. The sugar beet tax. As the recapitation has gone down, not as a result of consumers having changed habitats, but as manufacturers are changing the type of product they manufacture, not just in Catalonia, all of Spain, where there are no sugar beakers, they must push the tax in order to try to maintain the recapitation. And now, for that matter, a new tax: production, storage, transformation, transport, electrical energy, telephone, telematics... ; it is to say, like the waste of the light still gives more, come, « hurry, a new tax. And so also, with the phone, so, another tax, to put down pals and to carry electric power or data signals. At the IRPF, they go back to pushing or pushing... – "they come back because, in fact, it was already one of the communities that was higher, not the more, one of the more –, the tram of more than ninety-thousand, and they are completely oblivious of those that actually pay more, which, moreover, are 80_percent of the taxpayers, which are those that have less than thirty-thousand euros. Yes, you will say to me: "Well, we support the deduction of less than twelve thousand euros. Indeed, to those who do not have the obligation to declare the tax. But, in turn, to all others who do have the obligation to declare the tax, up to thirty thousand euros, to these do not touch them and we continue to feel the Catalans the Spanish that we pay the most IRPF. And that we pay more taxes in general, but also more IRPF. In the case of estates, the coefficients are used to pay more to direct family members in pre-existing assets; they lower bonuses to direct family members in group I, they lower bonuses in general; that is, to pay more. And you're quoting reports from us. Reports, escort, they don't have all kinds. I've also read many, many reports, that bet on abolishing the estate tax. You are pleased with those who bet to keep a high tribute in the estate tax and we are pleased with those who speak of the abolition of the estate tax, because there is a double tribute. And we share it, and we defend it this way too. In the imposition of documented legal acts, the Generality's self-bonification when it buys for the right of aunt or the reduction of the bonuses to the real estate, because it is obvious that lowering the period of grace from five years to three years what it does is to force the real estate, that I think they do not have the floors for sale permanently for taste, but because the market wheat more or less in the sale of a habitat. In short, those who have sacrificed themselves and those who sacrifice themselves with this law of measures are not the groups that will approve it: it is not the Republican Left Group, it is not the Group of Joints for Catalonia, it is not the group of commons; who sacrifice themselves with this law of measures is the whole Catalan society, which will end up paying everything you have agreed. And, as I said, we are the community that pays more taxes, more quantity: we have fifteen, more than what they believe today, seven, more than twice the second community that has more, that is Andalusia, that has eight, but more are the higher. And that, as I said, impoverishes us all. You do not take into account that taxes have two cares: one is you, that they are the ones who charge them, but there is someone, that is the joint venture of the Catalan society, that is who pays them. And in this case – in this case – who pays them gets hurt, right? And you said: "It is necessary to redistribute wealth. And I already share it perfectly, and it's an expression that we have often served, too, that to redistribute the wealth that is essential is to create wealth. And in this sense I would recommend it..., it is no report, but it is a column of opinion of Professor Durán-Sindreu yesterday in La Vanguardia. Among many other things, he goes on to say: "Listen, the problem is not the rich; the problem is the poor. I highly recommend your reading. The title is 'Tax Marxism'. [[Widow's remorse.]] I didn't sort it out myself, the title; it's the title that posed it as the teacher. I'm done. And I'll ask the president for a few seconds of benevolence. Just to mention two aspects of measures in the public sector, which I do not seem to have much to see, but they are paradigmatic of what you propose to us here today. First [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , reduction of the rights of movement to the time of compensation for injury. It seems to us that this is over, it is absolutely unnecessary. They're returning their rights to compensation for injuries in the exercise of their functions. For one thing. However, on another side, amend the Law of Legal Services of the Generality. Why? Because I can defend the members of the government, including when they commit crimes against the administration. Here you go! It is to say that if a member of the Government commits a crime against the Administration, it is already misappropriation, and, therefore, corruption, or it is not taking a break from the facade of the Palau de la Généralita, now force you to have the legal services...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.199.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.200.0	...is a position on the government's side and the defenses in the courts. Listen to me, we can't agree on this, and I'd say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.201.0	Congressman!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.202.0	...very little shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.203.0	Next, and to fix his position, he has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.204.0	Thank you, President. Inequality and redistribution of wealth, climate emergence and women's rights. I insist, inequality and redistribution of wealth, climate emergence and women's rights. These are the three great challenges that society today has at global level and that it should have a Catalonia that is not stuck on itself. I want to start this intervention with some figures, which has also been referenced. The risk rate of poverty in Catalonia is 21,3_per_cent; in the case of gifts, 24,1. We are talking about more than 1 million people in Catalonia who are at risk of poverty. The poverty risk rate on the job, I mean, people who all work has difficulties to get to the end of the month, is 14.4_per_cent, almost 500,000 people. The redistribution of wealth to Catalonia. The difference between the people who have the most tickets, the 20_per_cent higher, who have the most tickets, and the 20_per_cent lower, is still 5.2 times. And the climate emergency in Catalonia does not stop growing, because CO2 emissions, for example, created a 2_per_cent year 2017, which is the last year we have data. These are the results of a lost decade, the lost decade of Artur Mas and Mariano Rajoy. And these three objectives – inequality and redistribution of wealth, climate emergence and women's rights – are what we have put on the table to allow these assumptions to be processed. And this accompanying law allows for a fair and green tax reform that basically has three objectives: who earns less to pay less; who earns more to pay more; who earns more to pay a little more; and, thirdly, who pollutes more to pay more. With this law of measures, we set aside fiscal and progressive and green reform more ambitious than the last decade, because, yes, much has been done, more than two years has been done to make it possible, and with this tax reform we say goodbye in this case to tax gifts to those who have more and more tax amnesties. And I also want to say this: it is possible, if there is a political will, in the current mark of self-government, to increase the tickets and end the retailing without needing to arrive in Ithaca; there was only a lack and lack of political will. We get more than 550_million euros to shield public services and build a dic against retailing. It is said that it is little; it is always insufficient to guarantee, in this case, rights to the citizenry. But we are talking about an increase of more than 15_per_cent– from 3,000 to 3,550_million euros– over those taxes that the Generality has the capacity to decide. And I want to remind you that last year we also achieved a tax reform of EUR 80 million with a new tax on the bank that modified, through documented legal acts, the constitution of mortgages. If at the beginning of this parliamentary term the group of the commons has said that we would be able to achieve a tax reform of more than 650_million euros with this correlation of forces, everyone has said that we have been absolutely embroiled. And I also want to refer to what the PSC was saying. For example, I'm telling you, too, aren't I? , all the cuteness. I think maybe you've been better off sending it to the whole you've introduced it to the Union, or Forward Units. Because, in this case, you placed in the general policy debate the proposal that the tax reform addressed up to 350_million euros, perhaps because they thought we would not get there, and in the end we have overcome it with creases. And, look, I want to thank all those people who during this lost decade of Artur But and Mariano Rajoy has continued to claim a fairer and more progressive and green taxation. It has, for example, done the Fair Taxation Platform; it has, for example, been done by the unions, and it has also been done by left-wing groups. And I, in this case, also want to give thanks to the PSC and the CUP because I believe that this law of measures, and especially for what it does to taxation, is a good step back from its measures. That is why the pirouette, in this parliamentary case, seems inexplicable to me to present a statement to the totality. The tax reform that we are putting in place involves the modification of six existing tax figures and the creation of a new green tax that will particularly affect the environmental impact of electrical and telephone installations of large companies. And I also want to put in value, as reference has been made, that we agree to deploy the three taxes included in the Climate Change Act, which was about time: the emission of CO2 vehicles, already approved; the activities that generate CO2, or the port emissions of large ships. I want to go, in this case, into some tax changes and some of the things that have been said. In the first place, the IRPF. Who pays less, in this case, will also be those people who enter less, all those who enter less than 12,450_euro. And who enters the most will be those people who earn more than a thousand euros. And I'm telling you so clearly. That's to say, someone who can support, like Ciutadans, that someone who earns more than a thousand euros today in Catalonia is a popular class, it's a middle class, it's that he doesn't know where he saw it, it's that he doesn't know what reality he saw. And you confound one thing; it's to say, everyone who works, in this case, should charge a payroll, but not everyone who pays a payroll is a working class. Messi is not a working class, and he takes a payroll. The director, the CEO of the Box, in this case, is not a working class, and they charge a payroll. And that's what you're concocting. Because this tax reform only affects 1.5_percent of the population. And in this, as politics is of interest – and I will refer to it – you defend the 1.5_per_cent of society, we defend the 98.5_per_cent of society. The inheritance tax, the fairest and most progressive; we increase the redemption by 190_million euros. And, look, everybody knows it, and everybody says it, and so many economists say: heresies are one of the main sources of inequality that you have in Western societies. And there is no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no argument, no And here are two models, two clear-cut models: his model, that of PP, Ciutadans and Vox, because you agree with Vox, which is... For example, I'll tell you something you probably don't know; I don't know if all the Members know what you're doing in Andalusia or what you're doing, in this case, in Madrid, or their voters know it. An inheritance of EUR 5_million– EUR 5_million– in Andalusia, do you know how much you will pay? An inheritance of €5 million will pay €13,700. Do you know how much you'll pay for an inheritance of 5_million euros in Catalonia? , EUR 1.2 million. And this is the difference between PP, Ciutadans and Vox, and the difference between In Common We can. And what you do has consequences, because, for example, in Andalusia, you have had to close the day centers for people with disabilities because they don't have rooms because you have given them to the great heritages and you have had to close the heads of the week and the holidays because you are giving them gifts to the rich. This is his model and this is the model they're dealing with Vox. I also want to highlight the charge for electrical installations. And I think it's very important to do so because we're putting green taxes on the market in this case, and we're doing it with big companies that have billions of profits, like Endesa or Iberdrola. And then I also want to talk about the tourist tax, because sometimes it's also talked about absolute disconnection. That is to say, it is obvious that we increase the tourist rate, for example, at the Barcelona City Council, imposing a tax of 3.5_euros in this case, per night in five-star hotels, but it is that Berlin or Amsterdam have, in this case, the same or similar tourist taxes. Miri, I want to put on the table also, in this case, that I believe this tax reform, as well as defending Workers and UGT Commissions, subscribes, or, in this case, starts to walk up the land of the fair and also green taxation. And I also want to put down from the table what was explained by the president of Foment del Traball, Mr. Sánchez Llibre, who was talking about having a confiscation tax settlement. He was asking for fiscal tolerance. Look, we, from Comú Can, have a very clear message that we want to convey to you: the party is over. Your party's over. I mean, there's not enough to confiscate our rights anymore, because here what is really confiscators, in this case, for example, is the bank bailout of 60,000_million euros, which you have also always defended, and which assumed the detail of workers' and workers' rights, for example, with detail to many of the public services. And here are two antagonistic models. And we need to ask ourselves some very clear questions. Is it reasonable that today the 1_per_cent of Catalan society pays a little more when it concentrates 30_per_cent of wealth? Is it reasonable that in a decade of retailing, for example, to contributors ranging from 150,000 to 600,000_euros has increased by 52_per_cent? Or is it reasonable for people who enter more than 90_000_euros– who are only 52,000 people– to pay 60_euros more per month to shield public servants, reduce waiting lists or reduce university fees? We think so. Because you talk a lot about the country and the flag, but listen, the country and the heritage of the Kellys, the university, the Nissan workers are the public servants, they are the public school, it's public health, for example, and it's not what you do. And, look, I want to end up with a very clear phrase: you are the caste and pasta people's party. And that's what Citizens is – that's what Citizens is. [[Some applause.]] And, to finish this debate of assumptions, if it allows me thirty seconds, in this case, the president, I want to finish with some words of Alexandria Ocasio-Courtez, that did the primaries of the democrats, that said "if anyone tells us that I can go back, that I can go back to the past, the days that we...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.205.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.206.0	«... we move forward; we move forward to ensure public health, to guarantee decent wages, to fight against non..., to fight for our barrels. Forward. - No, no, no, no, no, We have opened a stage of change to Catalonia and want to open it now to Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.207.0	Congressman, thank you very much. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, it is now the return of Congresswoman Raquel Sans. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.208.0	Good evening. Thank you, President, Vice President, Councillor, Members, Members. In this very House, we have presented the assumptions for this 2020. Presumables coming after two years of extension, which have involved many economic difficulties that have particularly affected the most vulnerable people. Presumables that come after an ingenious work of the Department of Vice-President and Economy, led by Vice-President Aragonès, together with a team of great professionals. So, these words serve as a recognizance. And, not to mention, as a thank you to the task for the companies and companies of the Department of Economics, that they have been able to build a broad agreement with so diverse formations as they are together for Catalonia and the common ones. Presumables that pose the welfare and social justice of people at the center of government action, and that seek to address two major challenges that we have as a society: reduce economic inequalities, also gender inequalities, and respond to difficult environmental problems. Presumables that ultimately recover current expenditure compared to 2010 and which are at pre-economic level of expenditure. And today, that we present this law that accompanies the assumptions, the Law of fiscal and financial measures, I feel curious, does more than accompany, since, in fact, it is the law that enables the approval of these assumptions. The same way the assumptions do, the accompanying law also seeks to reverse what, in our view, were strategic errors of the past. Embrace austerity as a dogma, turning the detail into social spending into an unbearable burden for the majority of the population, exacerbating inequalities also with a regressive fiscal policy. It can only be remembered that while the economic crisis was particularly bloody with the popular classes, the Government, at that time of Convergence and Union, eliminated, in practice, the inheritance tax, which it assumed for the Generality to stop incurring 102_million euros, which remained to the usual butxacs, making these economic inequalities even more difficult. Precisely, if we continue to do a memory exercise, to understand what is the position of our group in the matter of fiscal policy, in the debate of the Law of Measures of 2012, the then deputy Pere Aragonès, from the opposition, already raised as proposals of Esquerra Republicana a tax on the bank, the reform of the property tax, a reform of the tax on the large commercial areas, or to recover the delay of the tax on estates, among others. Because this is the fiscal policy we defend from the Republican Left. Ras and short: pay more who has more. And as much as we would have to apply ourselves even more in times of economic crisis. Because, both from opposition as with Esquerra's entry into government, the year 2016, with Vice President Junqueras to the front, the stake for a fair and progressive taxation has always been the basis of our political action. 2012, as I said, from opposition to loneliness. 2017, from the government, with the political support of the CUP, in that case from the opposition, and today, with the political support of the commons, also from the opposition. From Esquerra we have been able to weave alliances with the left to build a more just and progressive taxation, and with the firm and sincere desire that these alliances of the next two assumptions can be repeated in the future to address, once and for all, the tax reform that this country needs, because we still have a lot to do, but to do, and many reticences to overcome. And it's important to have perspective. And what I'm touched on is to fill in Esquerra's work in the matter of taxation, a work that today allows us to be in a position to pass the page of the name "the era of detail, because, despite a context of absolute political abnormality, with companies and companies in prison or exile, we haven't stopped working, not one day, to give response to the needs of the country and its people. And, already entering the scope of the Law of measures that we are presenting today, we can say that it represents a substantial tax reform, a reform that continues to unravel the way to this green and progressive taxation, that gives continuity to measures begun in the past legislature as the development of the tax on non-productive legal persons, or reforms suspected for the Constitutional Court such as the tax on bank charges that are clearly placed on this fairer taxation, where it contributes more and where this solidarity effort is made available to the common good. The measures which include this law will, as has been said, entail an annual recaptancy of EUR 543 million that will already be incurred 173. In the matter of IRPF – it has also been repeated – the marginal types increase for higher yields, from 90,000 to 175,000_euros. And here the adjective is important, because, effectively, as the companies have also repeated, we are talking about high returns, despite that, therefore, some Tertulians, with a lot of television presence, tend to make us believe that 90,000_euros is the medium amount of this country. It's not as long as it's true. This was because 1.5_percent of the richest taxpayers paid a little more, while 6_percent of the lower contributors paid a little less. Just like that. [[Greetings.]] As for the inheritance tax, what is changing is the formula for taxpayers to earn an inheritance and already have a high expected worth – we're talking more than a million euros – to pay more. It's like who has more and more heretics, pays more. Because, as you said this morning and repeated it late in the morning, so what we don't want is that inequalities, as in the present, are inherited from parents and mothers to children. This is a question, therefore, that we are very concerned and very concerned about. The tax on capital transfers and documented legal acts: the tax burden for single-parent families is reduced. For what it does to the tax on stays in touristic establishments, therefore, we reinforce a tax that, as has been said, does not negatively affect the number of visits, but that in change promotes a tourism of more quality and a more sustainable tourism. For what he does to tax on empty habitats, he has the purpose of fighting absurdity; the absurdity of having people without home and houses without people. And, finally, the tax on sweet beguds, a tax that already counts with almost three years of application and that shows a measure that improves the salvation of people; a tax, as the Vergés conseillera has repeated many times, that the one who pursues does not have a desire to recaptator but the one who pursues is to fight against a chess as can be child's obesity. Therefore, it is also an important tax on this line. With all these measures, the aim is to have a more progressive and greener taxation, as we say. Precisely, this law develops new tools in the fight against climate change, such as this new environmental tax on electrical and telecommunications companies, which charges the environmental impact for its activity. I would also like to highlight the CO2 emissions vehicle tax that we approved in this Parliament last December and which seeks to encourage more sustainable mobility. But the Bill of Measures goes beyond taxation. It is well known to the companies of the CUP, which were essential because 2017 was able to agree to the derogation of the Law of Presuppositional Enabling and to recover the direct management of the ATLL, of the Aigues Ter Llobregat, as yesterday the deputy Sirvent recalled. That was 2017. 2020 will not only generate more resources but also make it more rigorously managed. This law will also allow the General Intervention to assess the management of public administration resources. We don't just want to spend more, but we also want to do it right. Evaluation and long look, because the Law of measures also fixes a_mark, as Mrs Escarp reminded us, four years as a reference to the time to elaborate assumptions. It seems a lot more democratic to us than leaving a debt to pay for thirty or forty years. And from a range of sectoral measures, we should highlight some of them which help to develop new essential tools for building a more inclusive, fairer and more sustainable economy and society. The law of measures continues to work to convert the Catalan Institute of Finance into a public bank, not a political bank, into a public bank. In the field of culture, the law enshrines the 1,5_per_cent cultural; it is to say, that any presumption of public work will have to reserve a 1,5_per_cent for the preservation and rehabilitation of cultural assets. In the field of education, we shield the participation of families in the management of beggars – importantly – by means of management agreements. In short, the Law of Measures illustrates Esquerra's bet for a progressive and green taxation, but this bet will not be complete until we can recover the almost 700_million euros of taxes suspected for the Constitutional Court. Or 16,000_million euros of tax deficit. Or the 11,000_million euros of unpaid commitments of the State. Nevertheless, we give them with conviction, that this is the path, the path of social and fiscal justice, a path that we would have right away fully if we had all the tools of a similar state. Because, the fiscal deficit does not have to be the excuse to maintain social injustice. If we want a state, we want it to guarantee the right of all citizens to undertake their own vital projects.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.209.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.210.0	Because... – I finish, President – because, as the Mayor of Barcelona said, Jaume Aiguader : « Catalunya, if you want to be free, you have to learn to be fair. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.211.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Jordi Munell. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.212.0	Thank you, President. Good evening. Members, Members, members of the Government and Councillors, in the first place, gathering concerns from behind the bench, remembering Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament for which it does at the time, because family reconciliation today is hardly possible, is it not? [[Greetings. The timer laughs.]] All right. Well, a little element also given by MP Escarp in relation to that in the bill of measures and accompanying, so, he sets himself up..., or takes advantage of it to modify many other things. Actually, it's always been that way, huh? , because, therefore, there are many elements, many parts of the law or existing decrees that are part of..., or that must be touched or retouched in order to face all the mechanisms that allow to develop a presumption, and, therefore, it has always been so. If someone doesn't agree or some parliamentary group thinks it's not right, there's plenty of time, between assumptions and assumptions – and this time there hasn't been more – to propose or amend this Regulation, isn't there? In any case, today does not touch, therefore, comment. Well, I'll do it not so much to enter into the small details of the different modifications or proposals, so, what we have in this accompanying law, but also to value a little the global scenario, right? It's been said, but I think it's important to focus on it and repeat it, because we're not in a normal year, with a normal assumption, in a normal political scene. He's a scener, actually, a lot and a lot of complex, huh? We actually have a parliament or a government, and so on, policies under pressure and repression, huh? , beginning with the same members of the Bureau of Parliament up to multiple persons, members of the legitimate Government, ex- MPs and ex- MPs, the President of the Parliament, subjected to repression, imprisonment and exile. Actually, we have a whole state structure, huh? , des du Tribunal Superior de Justícia de Catalunya, des del Jutjat number 13, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court – which supervises the taxes or laws we approve of Parliament –, the Advocate of the State, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Central Electoral Board – which has no competence but also affects it –, the Court of Auditors, etcetera, therefore, we have a 155 that from the policy continuous through the judicial process, is continuing... Therefore, to draw up a presupposition and a accompanying law in these circumstances, as you can understand, is not normal, huh? In fact, an economic 155 still continues; it has already been said and I will insist. Mr Aragonese said that he was independent. Certainly, we have an economic 155 that continues. How's it going? So it goes on with the money that goes on and doesn't come back, it goes on with the state's disloyalty for what it does to the historical debt with Catalonia, it goes on with the non-development of what it is supposed to invest in Catalonia... Therefore, it is 155 to try to offer the economy, but also society and, therefore, Catalan citizenship. Therefore, we are not in a normal _frame to make a presupposition or a presupposition accompanying law. It's also said, we have some unjust deficit targets, huh? , unfair in a _frame in which later years the State progressively increases its recaptulation to the Central State, but lowers the recaptancy or resources that can directly benefit the autonomous communities. Moreover, the State derives from the autonomous communities, and also from the smaller administrations, the joints also, the responsibility of containment and presuppositionary restriction, and does not distinguish or value those administrations that do complete or that are more applied even with the objectives of deficit or expense topalls or rule of expense. It makes no distinctions, and all equally apply the same measure. For example, this year, as Vice President Aragones exposes, therefore, with all honor, the first time that the Generalitat completes the objectives of the Organic Law of estabilitation, debt and rule of expense. All right. What's the use? The State continues to impose on us, like our community as in other communities, the zero target of debt. Now, it's made it more flexible, 0.2_per_cent, which is not royal, it's also yielded, it's not a gift because you won't have to pay after interest. But, in any case, the question we have to ask ourselves: a premise we make in this scene to try to bond with the State..., nor does it make up for us. Neither does the Generalitat have the capacity to carry out its own policy. I'll get 90 percent of the tributes back from the State; it's back and it doesn't return them. He said, "It's late, it's scarce and it's bad." It makes them in the form of advancement, of beast, and more we have to pay interest in the FLA. So, we're not in some normal presuppositional condition, are we? Here, in fact, what we're doing is a assumption that manages beasts, manages beasts that the State, of good roll, wants to give in, because when it doesn't have good roll we lock them up. Example, the August passed, huh? : "We will not do the liquidation; au, vinga, cash security that the vice president and advisor of Economy Aragonès had to face. This is a continuous state of affairs in this market of which I say an economic 155. That is to say, Catalonia, the Generality, this Parliament has 100_percent of the responsibilities respect the citizen. The citizens are complaining to us when something goes wrong, when the R3 doesn't work, when the AP-7 is collapsing, when line 9 of the subway doesn't end... but we don't have the resources to do it. In fact, like there's more to the state's failure, it's not that we have 100_per_cent of responsibility, many times the excess, 130 or 140_per_cent, because we have to deal with what the state doesn't do. So, with all this branding, huh? , with this permanent fiscal deficit, with this – it has also been said – fiscal dumping that makes other communities, with the investments in Catalonia under the level of execution lower than last year, with all this I think it is also worth congratulating, as I did on the day of the committee, the Department of Economy and the Vice-President, because despite all this situation, we have been able to bring forward some assumptions, and thanks also to the responsibility of the government of President Torra, because despite the political situation of the coalition government, therefore the important thing here, which has prevailed, is the citizenship of Catalonia and, therefore, not to leave the country any other sense of pressure. Therefore, as has already been reiterated, they are the assumptions of responsibility, some assumptions made in a very difficult _mark from a political point of view. [[Widow's remorse.]] If we had done it ourselves – Pallarès said so too – surely there are not seven equals, but we are in a coalition government and we have also been supported by the group of commons. Therefore, there are measures that obviously do not please Juntes for Catalonia but that we must be aware that we need to make all our pleas more flexible so that we can bring these assumptions forward and, therefore, we have to accept to introduce them also with our parliamentary effort, so some measures to bring it forward. For example, we were pleased..., man, for example we were pleased that this 2017 VAT debt found out with the tickets, these 400 and millions of euros. What did we like the most? Home, therefore, make an effort against the State and place in the presupposition of the entrances the debt of the third additional disposition of the State; no longer accumulates it, that some, surely, thousands of millions, but at least that of this year. Why? Home, because more than that we are, therefore, with a member of government who has been facilitator of a government of the State and a member necessary to approve the premise that forms part of the coalition of the State. Therefore, we believe that this was a good time to help these 1,000 and millions of dollars, plus these 400_millions of VAT, but, more importantly, the debt, for example, of the agreements of Mossos d'Esquadra, 800_millions of euros, this put on the assumption that the receipts have allowed, therefore, major investments, more social spending, but above all something that we did not like either, which is this fiscal push, huh? He agreed that he had sought to do the least coercive possible, that it affected the least part of the population, but, in any case, he did not cease to be a prosecutor, a prosecutor of the estate tax. So, what are we doing? We're eating at what the State is doing to us against Catalonia... who are we deriving it from? To the strangeness. And, therefore, we believe that there were other measures to do so. For example, as we said, taking into account the partners that we would allow to pull forward this assumption, so it was to put State tickets on the side. Therefore, this is a subject, therefore, which has been key for us. But, anyway, as we say, our share, too, of responsibility and negotiation with the coalition, so, let us pull it forward, even though at all, one hundred_per_cent, we don't like it. Let's celebrate, for one thing, that the top is lowered to make them lower. As I said, we don't share that you support them, not so much by the fact, but because we have a state that gives us money, but instead of claiming it's not forcing it, which is to carry it to the citizenry. We have also negotiated to apply the bonus of inheritance tax, not only with spouses, but also with descendants, and above all with lesser orphans of twenty-one years. And so, as we say, so we have shared the whole subject of the prosecution of tax fraud, trying to make politics fairer, politics equal, environmental taxes to make a country that advances towards these 2030 goals, climate emergency, minimum wage of reference, etc. On the subject of university fees, I had preferred to do so in a scrawny way, which pays more than you have, not to make it universal, precisely with this policy that the groups that have preceded me have been defending: who else has, who pays more; who less has, who pays less. On the other hand, in the university tax, we have not been able to negotiate and it has become universal. So he's gonna pay just as much less than he's got, and we think it's not fair at all; we've made a difference, huh? In any case, therefore, we shall bring this law into force and vote against it, therefore, from this point of view to the totality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.213.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.214.0	We shall have enough time to debate, therefore, in the submissions that are presented. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-02-12-4902.215.0	Thank you, Congressman. We called for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the totality of the items, the return of the draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures and the creation of the tax on installations which affect the environment. Let's start the vote. The vote begins. Total votes were rejected by 57 votes to 64, with 8 abstentions. Therefore, the parliamentary process of the draft law continues. There's no more fear of dealing with today's order. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
