ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's start this session. And before addressing the agenda, I would like to say that, for this session, eighty-nine Members and Members have delegated their votes, twenty-three Members and Members have joined the telematic vote and twenty-two Members will vote in person. As you know, the vote on the motions for resolutions that follow the debate that we are starting at these moments is planned to diverge, to finish the interventions of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups, for their presentation and position. [[Discussion on the management of the health crisis in Covid-19, the measures taken to improve the situation and the planned measures for social protection and economic recovery]] [[255-00012/12]] We therefore begin the debate on the management of the health crisis of the Covid-19, the measures taken to promote it and the planned actions of social protection and economic recovery. As agreed by the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen, this debate, which was called for by the President of the Generality, will be co-substantiated with the debate on the reconstruction of Catalonia before the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, which was called for by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. In accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, this joint debate shall be governed by the provisions of Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and the sequence agreed for the same Board of Spokespersons. In the first place, therefore, has the word the President of the Generality, the very honorable Quim Torra and Pla. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.2.0	Very good morning to everyone. President, members of the Bureau, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Councillors and Councillors, esteemed citizens who listen to us from home... We cannot be happy or satisfied; before a human drama and the loss of so many lives, complacency does not form part today of the way in which we can embark on this debate on the difficult health, economic and social crisis that we are experiencing. If there is any ruler of our institutions or of any government in the world who comes to set up medals and to boast of the work done, you must not automatically distrust; by prevention, you apply a reasonable degree of skepticism to all that I like to say has done all right. Not content or satisfied, and still less, pleased. On the other hand, I can tell you that I live with an immense pride to be part of this splendid Catalan society and that it is an honor to be the President of his national institution, of the Generality. If these days we've got rid of the blunt end of the coronavirus pandemic, it's no less certain that we've seen an unmistakable collective network of solidarity, compromise and talent. That's why I want to start my intervention affirming this pride of belonging to a country with this civic power. I mean, with this, you haven't made a big effort since the whole government? No way. We've done all the more than I was in our hands to save lives, to protect the citizens before this inclement and so cruel attack. And, therefore, I can say that a great effort has been made by all the members of my Government, as well as by all the institutions and organizations we have worked with during these three months and a half, since our life changed forever. And they'll allow me not to let a minute pass without making a recognizance and a little tribute to all those who have lost their lives, who have lost an esteemed being or who have suffered the severe attack of the virus. That is why, if I may, I would like to ask the whole chamber to set itself up and reserve a minute of silence in its memory. [[In the chamber, dempeus, serve a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. They're no more than twelve thousand lines of an excellent full, they're no statisticians compared to our lives to see who did it better or worse; that would be a terrible, macabre, inhuman exercise. We're talking about twelve-thousand lives of a health pandemic, more than twelve-thousand projects and dreams escaped in just over three months. There are names and surnames, widows, lovers, fights, hopes, couples who have left without children, children without pairs, Germans who are no longer, companions of life who no longer accompany us. No, we don't have to allow this cruel malaise to erase our memory or the name to fall into oblivion. One more time, therefore, I express my condolences here to your family and friends. How did it start, all this? How did we get here? The Covid-19 suddenly presented itself to our lives and has sacked them forever. Many things have changed since we began to identify the first cases of infection in Catalonia. In fact, once the situation in Xina was known, the government was already loving the evolution of the new virus, in constant contact with epidemiology experts and in public health. It was the 11th generation of 2020 when the announcement of the first death to Xina for a new coronavirus was published. A_me later, on the 15th of February, the first death was announced in Europe; he drove France, a Chinese tourist. And already on the 21st of February was detected a worrying focus to the Llombardia, with more than sixty cases. The alarm lights had already turned on, and it was time to start making decisions, as was the case with the suspension of the Mobile World Congress. A difficult decision, the first of many difficult decisions that we have to take. But the rulers are not observers, we don't have to make a linear account of the facts, but it's up to us to act and make decisions, and it's always before it's too late. We can say that in the beginning of this crisis there are two key dates: the 30th generation of 2020, in which the WHO declares the outbreak of the Covid-19 as an emergence of global public health, and the 2nd March of the same year, in which the European Centre for the Prevention and Control of Malalties does not raise the risk to the European Union from moderate to high. The first known case of the Covid-19 in Catalonia was the 25th of February d'enguany, an Italian of thirty-six years living in Barcelona. And the first fatal victim in Catalonia was March 6th, a woman of eighty-seven years, with premeditated pathologies, at the German Trias and Pujol Hospital, Badalona. Two days before the first death in Catalonia, on March 4, Italia had closed the schools and trades. And only three days before, on March 3, the Spanish State confirmed the first death by coronavirus; a man, however, who had died in València on February 13. It may now be recalled that on March 3, at the first meeting of the Government following the detection of the first case in Catalonia, we immediately activated the revision of the Procicate's plan of action for emergencies associated with emerging communicable diseases with high risk potential, with the objective of anticipation and global response, coordinating all government departments for a comprehensive management, not only from the health point of view, but also in relation to the potential impact on the functioning of the ordinary activity of the population. The same day that the first death occurred in Catalonia, on March 6, the European Union ruled out, even though it unified the preventive measures, despite the forecast of a rapid increase in contagious diseases. Three days later, the Spanish State had already exceeded a thousand diagnosed infections, with a very special incidence in the Community of Madrid. On March 11th, the World Health Organization declared the global pandemic and immediately activated the alert phase of the Procicat plaza. The debt – the debt –, said March 12, the Government of Catalonia confined the Conca d'Odena perimeter and we announced the closure of schools and university centres, and I already asked the Spanish Government for the total confinement of Catalonia, which was not produced until two weeks and took place later, on March 29 and took place later. When the state of alarm came into force on March 16, in the Spanish State – with data from March 14, – there were already 5,700 cases of infection and 136 deaths. I wanted to make this reminder of the chronology of those first weeks, because they help us all to put in a context necessary to evaluate the first decisions taken. The rapid reaction is determinant in epidemics, as all experts have explained. In this sense, the Government of Catalonia held from the very first moment a very clear idea of how to react: perimeter closure of the main active focus of the country; closure of schools and teaching centres at all levels; house confinement; use of masks; individual distance between people in cases where displacement outside the home was essential, and active and unreserved support to the economic sectors affected by the confinement. From the very beginning, every week and every time I or this government's advisors didn't have the opportunity, we made a proposal to get the other one back with one objective: to save lives, protect the most vulnerable and rescue the economic fabric. Do it quickly and do it well, knowing that there could be no limits to the effort, neither in imports nor in terms, to an emergence that surpassed everything we had known until then and that no one could ever have imagined. We have acted at every moment with full responsibility, rigour and anticipation, explaining to the citizen at every moment the gravity of the situation, but at the same time pointing out and defending a package of measures to get us out of it. Yes, some measures that have been based on making decisions, always, as quickly as possible, that were the most useful and the most transformative. If I may, we could summarize in four, the great lines in which the Government of Catalonia has moved during these three months and a half. In the first place, over any other: fighting the epidemic, knowing that every minute that passed without taking decisions, like total confinement except essential services, was a lost minute and that it made the health situation worse. Second: freezing time, this idea of freezing time, is to say, of absolute protection to workers, to self-employed and to enterprises, with moratoria of payments of quotas and taxes, and at the same time, apart from this moratoria, transference and subsidies to enterprises of the most affected sectors. From the very first moment on, let the workers feel confident, sure in their future, that they can do the confinement with these guarantees of safety at work, and that the companies survive the epidemic. Further, I'll detail some of the girl proposals in this sense. Third great idea with which we acted and would act: a Keynesian policy of intervention of the administrations in the economy, rescue the economy, intervene, applying a policy of historical public investment; in short, do not cause the crisis in the citizens. If it was spent 60,000_million euros to save the bank, it was now about saving businesses, workers and self-employed people. From the beginning we have defended that it should be the administrations that carry with the consequences of this crisis. And the big quarter is in which we have moved during these three months and months: to claim at all times to the State the return of our skills and to demand the financing just and necessary in order to be able to meet the giant commitments that citizenship demands of us. We'll have a chance to talk to him. These, I insist, have been the four great lines in which we have moved all the members of the government. In short, I wanted, with these four great axes, to make it clear that another management of the state of alarm was possible; that the Government of Catalonia always put an alternative plan, constructively, to the table, and that we have never – never – prioritized any decision that it was not to save lives. As you know, because you have participated, the Government has wanted to listen on different occasions to parliamentary groups at the length of this crisis. In fact, before taking decisions on March principles of closing schools and universities and closing the Conca d'Odena and asking for the sanctity of Catalonia, we have already gathered the parliamentary groups to discuss the threat that we face in this world, and at the end of a couple of weeks we have returned. We called them from my office to make a meeting, now telematics, and give them all the information we had. I thanked them then, and I am doing so today, the willingness to cooperate that everyone at that time expressed, as well as their contributions and proposals. Further, even though we requested a telematic appearance to the plenary, the Presidency of the Chamber offered to do another video conference meeting, and so we did, and we re-shared all the information with you. And then, all the councillors and councillors went to committee to derail the work the government was doing and all the action plans. Finally, the full face-to-face sessions, control sessions, debates and parliamentary activity have been restored in the format we can see today. And I have to tell you that I am happy with the collaboration and the dialog that we have been able to establish with all of you. I want to thank them here again today. Politically these two years we have had differences, some very deep ones, but today I want to point out that, during the worst weeks our country has had in decades, we have shared the same criteria, all of us: saving lives and protecting the salvation of people. And now we have this monographic debate, which I requested for close interest many days ago, May 8, but also to give way to your request to participate in defining how to deal with the health, economic and social crisis. With the resolutions that they will present, with the same debate, we now have the opportunity to agree priorities and solutions, which fall into this country at this time, and I thank them, too, for coming in. So good are the discussions we have today that we are passing on to the citizenry a parliament that knows how to raise its eyes and that, before a backcountry, it offers solutions for the whole country. In order to be able to make this debate rigorously and with all the information, the proposals continued a few data, a few health, economic and social indicators, which help us to get an idea of the magnitude of the current crisis. And it is with these facts that I can act decisively, with imagination and with the usual social compromise. As much as the councillors and advisors... – that they would participate, because I have expressly wanted the government councillors and advisors to participate in this debate, because this has been the work of the entire government of Catalonia, the management of this crisis – and they can still give more detail to some of these data, so let me put them to the same consideration as all of you. On the health impact of the Covid: more than 70,000 positive cases accumulated, 4,134 people entering gravity from the epidemic iniciaries, 12,523 people dead until now and 14,000..., almost 15,000, high hospitals. They know that about the evolution of these data blocks day by day we have been reporting on time. This has been, as I will explain further, a government currency: transparency in the management of data and decisions taken. But the impact of Covid wasn't just health care, you know, and they're going to see the length of my intervention that I'm going to talk about four emergents of this impact: health care, economics, social and educational. Many of the indicators with which the march and progress of a country is usually analysed, which were positive, and, frankly, in some cases very positive until the day of the crisis, have suffered a monumental understatement. Let me give you some background data on economic activity. More than 98.000 temporary employment regulation expeditions that have affected 726,262 Catalans; 4,855_million euros of accumulated losses in the 16 March to late May trade sector; 99.4_percent drop in international passengers in May versus last year's month of May; 13,2_percent drop in March 2020 exports respect the same month of the past year, up to 5,570_million euros, lowest xifra in one March from 2014; 5,544 closed cultural equipment – scenic and musical spaces, cinema rooms, museums, archives, athens, centres–, more than 20_million cultural consumptions that have not been made between April and May of cultural sectors. Logistic activity decreased between 70 and 75 per cent during the pandemic. In social matters, according to the data from the CEO's survey on the impact of the Covid, 7.4_percent of the population had to resort to the economic help of family members, 40.9_percent of the population had seen their entrances reduced to their homes and 27_percent of the population think that they would have difficulty or many difficulties to reach at the end of the month – before the outbreak of the pandemic, this 27_per_cent was an 8.2_per_cent. Male violence. During the first month and a half of confinement, about 90_percent more tricks to the line of attention against male violence. If we compare the first week with the last, it's gone from 56 to 126 emergency cases per week, that's to say, it's more than doubled. The 95_per_cent more requests for guaranteed citizenship income have been rejected, i.e., more than 10,650 new requests between March and May. The programs of the food banks and the Red Cree have increased by 26_per_cent, 75,000 more than the 367,000 users there were. These are just a few affect indicators that leave us with the pandemic. But, as I said, Members and Members, we cannot simply interpret them as a few more figures, but they must be understood as a reflection of life projects that have changed their reality in a substantial way, and that administrations and also political representatives do everything possible so that, as soon as possible, they can resume their path. As I said, since the zero minute of this crisis, my government and I have always laid down life and respect for life before any consideration, because, quite simply, it is the most fundamental right of all. And I want to point out why it's always been that way, that all the decision made for our government until today has been taken under the criteria of expert people. This is and has been the logic of the Government of Catalonia these past few months, and we have done so on two important premises. First, put people in the center; second, always act transparently, explaining the truth of the situation at every moment. I place especially in value that it has been, practically, in Catalonia where it has been informed of all the cases of people passed through the Covid, both in a hospital, in a residence or in their own home. Information that when we had the willingness to offer it we immediately put it to the fore of all the citizens. And so, while all the data have been explained in Catalonia, the State still has the right to explain its data. We start from a fact that we consider essential: the citizens have the right to know what has happened, and not only what has happened to the hospital but also to residences and private homes. To the extent that it is not given in these data, Spain has closed the Covid effects log in false. I told them no, we didn't wait with our hands folded decisions that didn't come from the Spanish government or that came late. We took the initiative and took the steps that the health emergency required without doubting a moment to act with force despite our competitive migrations, crushed by a state that ended up towing too many times, not to say always. Someday it will be necessary to explain how, out of the harmful decision of centralization of the purchase of sanitary material by the Ministry of Health, the Government of Catalonia undertook an authentic odyssey in order to be able to provide protection material to the health personnel and all the personnel of the essential services. Undoubtedly, this centralization of the purchase of material was one of the worst decisions that involved the centralization of competitions. In the most difficult moments, in the authentic moments of darkness, when everything was more difficult, Catalonia, in those first weeks of the pandemic, contributed more than 80_percent of the sanitary material, when it was supposed to be provided for the Spanish government by confiscating the competitions. I believe that this figure is enough and sufficient to grasp the magnitude of the error that was made there; of the risks in which it was made not only in Catalonia but in the whole of the universal state. Do you imagine yourself saying autonomous communities going to international markets to buy sanitary supplies? That's what happened. In each of the meetings of presidents the complaints for this reason have been constant, and I want to take advantage of the occasion to make a special thank you to all those who from Health, from the Department of Enterprise, from the Economy, have devoted hours and hours to finding the material and resources that we value in a situation of global col·lapse and panic. But we didn't just listen to the scientists and professionals of Health, we did hundreds of meetings and communications with the local world, the assemblies and their representatives, with the affected sectors, with the entities of the Third Social Sector, with volunteering and also with parliamentary groups and with everyone else who could or wanted to make their contribution to get out of this situation with force and with the slightest possible damage. We've always done it with the will to listen to everyone and to learn from everyone. And we made receptions, loving all needs and sensitivities. It is from this information that, I insist, the Government of the Generality has always made constructive proposals, and I am not happy that we have done so, because there is no one left in this struggle. As I said, the Government of Catalonia has had to fight this health threat without sufficient resources or tools, with an intervention of our powers, one day for another, while continuing to solve all the problems and, as always, without the resources that we are able to generate like the country. In the face of a threat of this magnitude, I would have liked to have had all our experience and ability to fight the virus, but we found ourselves with a Spanish government that had no warning – and I insist: without warning – the already very small autonomy that we have was involved. Was it so hard to talk about how we'd focus on this management? Was it so hard to unwind the phone and talk? Is the result of the dialog a word that appears and disappears from public discourses according to the conveniences and partisan tactics of the moment? Can anyone imagine that one day for another Chancellor Merkel, without notifying the land and land presidents, made the decision to suppress the most vital skills? Can anyone imagine that? But it wasn't just the usurpation of competitions, as is sad enough, this tragedy we've had to face without the resources needed to be able to act according to our capabilities as a dynamic, strong and resource-generating society enough to get out. Yes, more than a dozen diumeng meetings took place in the morning, a real success of unanswered monologues, that of the Spanish president and the rest of the autonomous presidents, used as a deaf decoration of it that the day before President Sánchez and his government had decided on their behalf. Basically, there has been a precise and raw force photograph of what is called the State of Autonomy. A picture and enough. At the same time, despite the specific difficulties of the pandemic and of the added difficulties of being an autonomy of the Spanish State, our attitude has always been to take the initiative and advance us to all and each of the decisions that, too late, the government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias would take. We were pioneers in the demand for strict home confinement, we were pioneers in the demand for use of masks, we were pioneers in the need to put temporary regulating expeditions in the market linked to the duration of the pandemic. Now, finally, the Spanish government has agreed to extend the ERTOS until September. We're not happy, but we also have to see how businesses can't plan with the necessary anticipation. We all knew that it was necessary to widen these ERTOs. But why have we waited so long? Why do we make it so difficult for our entrepreneurs? We were also pioneers in the demand for a subsistence income, in the development of loggers, in the suspension of taxes, in the support of critical sectors such as trade, tourism, culture or restoration. Throughout this time the Government of Catalonia has made proposals, clear, urgent proposals, which require firm and swift decisions, and have not listened to our petitions, or when they have listened, they have listened to each other too late. I put only three examples: 13 March, in a public appearance I asked for the total confinement of Catalonia; the State did not decree it until 29 March. Two weeks that would have been key, vital. A demand that was endorsed by scientific criteria. All the Catalan scientific community, directors of hospitals, directors of primary care centers, epidemiologists..., everyone was demanding of us from the Government of Catalonia – and there have been those who have been ruling in Catalonia, all the scientific community has asked for the same – this total confinement of Catalonia. Well, despite presenting all the reports possible, despite having defended him from all the possible ways, they never gave themselves the reasons for which it did not apply, we never had the reports of the Spanish State, not once. As an example: March 22nd, at the meeting of presidents, I insisted on total confinement – I had not yet arrived –; I made twenty-two proposals to protect workers and vulnerable people, and I called for the strengthening of the health system, not its re-centralisation. Strengthening the health system is not centralizing it; it is strengthening precisely the systems of the state's governments. There was the better of the conditions of the ERTOs, the performance of autonomous people, the suspension of the loggers, etc. Some were approved weeks later, such as regulating the loggers; others, today, have not yet applied. Twenty-nine March, at the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, third and last example. I particularly insisted on eight measures, the first of which was the application of an income from citizenship because the collection was unprotected before the end. Finally, the Council of Ministers approved it on May 29 and ended up applying it to June media, almost three months in which the most vulnerable people were left unprotected. We are tied to a state that has been before, not towing; we are tied to a state that has been executed, not to executing our skills; in short, we are tied to a state that is close to us. And in the face of the crisis, all the collaboration of the world, all the coordination that I have. It was trying to make the right decisions, and when the right decisions were made, the Government of Catalonia was at the side of whom it had made them. I want to underline that I was the first to go out to congratulate President Sánchez once decreed total confinement, except for the essential services, and that I gave him all the support for the fund-raising petition to Europe. But I'm insisting, because it's important to hear how I faced this epidemic and to find out who respects the State for the self-government of Catalonia, they wanted to get rid of us, once more, they applied another time to us Article 155, camouflaged this time in the state of alarm, but they found a government that did whatever we thought we should do, we had or did not compete with them. I never expect an attitude of submissiveness and acquittal; in me, they will never find it, that attitude, and less so when it comes to the self-government of Catalonia. Aspired to culminate in independence, you can already imagine that they will always find me before when it comes to any limitation to our self-government or our institutions. The management of the epidemic could focus from a point of view of attitude and respect for the citizen in very different forms. It never seemed right to me the militarization that was done by the Spanish government or call them to the unit. We are talking about an epidemic, not a war or a patriotic reconquest. It has not been seen in the democratic government of the military press round the world. Calia? Calien those wheels with the military press? In a democratic government, calia? In any case, the Government of Catalonia chose from the first moment to focus its communication under two clear axes and commitments: transparency and proximity. This was a clear directive, which I gave to the government so well, it sparked this health crisis. We have been a sincere and transparent government for the city; we have done better or worse, but we have always given all the data. We have answered all the questions and all the explanations that should be given, we have given them at all times. And I want to thank, especially Councillors Budo and Vergés, and Councillor Buch, for being the face and the government's voice at all times. From the day we confirmed the first position in Catalonia, on the 25th of February, the government was taking daily action, following at all times the guidelines established by the WHO at world level and the recommendations of scientists. As I said, March 3rd, in the first government after the first Covid case was known, we activated the revision of the Pla d'actuzione del Procicate. For the first time, he adopted a Health / Interior bicephaly to coordinate all government departments for a comprehensive management of the situation, not only from the health point of view. Our goal was to anticipate and give a global response. March 11, when the WHO declared the Pandemic Phase of the Covid, activated the Alert Phase of the Pla Procicate, and the following decisions were taken on March 11,: suppression of activities of more than a thousand people both in open spaces and closed; limitations of a_third of capacity enhancement inside; closing to the public of sporting events, etc. On March 12, we decreed the confinement of the Conca d'Odena, a management that required the contracting of sanitary reinforcements, additional police controls, in a type of action that we never had before in Catalonia, a difficult measure, but equipped for the scientific data that we had and that we pulled forward. On the same 12th of March, we announced the closure of educational centres and classroom activities in the universities and announced the suspension of public services and activities that affected sports facilities, libraries and museums, cinemas, etc. Ski resorts, restaurants, shopping centres, large areas, etcetera were closed. And we announced measures that affected public transport, funeral services, among others. Let's hear that it's time to apply those decisions then. They were criticized by some, but I don't think anyone is questioning them today. It was our responsibility, it was our duty as the government, and we had to take them. Therefore, on March 13th, we announced the confinement of all Catalonia, because the health situation brought us there, because the experts advised us. But it was left without being able to concretely apply or apply for the declaration of the state of alarm on March 14, since the competent agencies to authorize and take action from that moment on became the Government of the State and, by sectoral delegation, the Ministers of Defence, Interior, Transport and Greeting. Still losing part of our capabilities: defense, interior, transportation and health – without defense – are probably some of the most vital skills of any government. Imagine, then, that one day for another, these competitions disappear. I insist, while losing them, we continue to act from the government with all our strength, I would say that even more determined than ever. We took emergency measures, after which the Health Adviser will detail them. All health resources were put at the disposal of the fight against the pandemic. It's tripled UCI's usual beds, and they're over two thousand. Here it has come to say that the Català Health System therefore never came to col·lapsar. Do you know how many UCI beds we usually have in this country? Six hundred and we got to have more than 1,500 people in UCI beds. This is a real display of the muscles, the excellent work that has been done since the Health Department in all hospitals and throughout the primary care network. The health parlors and sixty-four health hotels for patients and health professionals, more than one hundred and thousand overnight stays, were enabled. Contractions of reinforcement staff were made, retired medical staff and senior and graduate students were mobilized to strengthen health care. And all possible efforts to buy all the necessary sub-administrations. I will not repeat the idea that one day we will write of how, in an international market col·lapsed, the Government of Catalonia had to go out with one hand to the front and later to buy the material that our health and socio-health professionals were calling for. For what he does to the care reorganisation, he has given a key role the primary care, which allowed to avoid col·lapse, and he has strengthened the non-faced care, which has prevented more than a thousand visits to the care centers at a time when the crisis thus required. For what it does to residents, since the zero minute it has been held meetings almost weekly with the sector. I have met them every week so that I can follow the health crisis that the residents suffer. We designed and applied a health and social intervention plan to residents and decided to sanitize them with a change of skills to the Health Department. We'll talk about it in a specific debate next week. For what he does to research, they reinforced all the research projects in Covid matter and developed immunity studies to advance the knowledge of the disease. The gratuity of phone 061 was established. A data from the 112 Emergence Phone: at the beginning of the crisis, 8,330 tricks came in one day; the past, this scale, so alone around a hundred. We also set out the application of Stop Covid19 Cat, March 18, with the aim of anticipating the spread of the disease; application taken as the model of analysis for international organizations. The same team of experts from WHO, who visited Catalonia in the midst of the crisis, congratulated our health system for the management of the crisis, concretely, the Vall d'Hebron Hospital. And we have also worked not only with all the specialists and technicians of the Department of Health, they know that we were lucky enough to count on Dr. Oriol Mità's advice to develop what was to be the basis of a proper decontainment plan, which was approved by the Government of Catalonia. A reference for many other communities and that has rejected the interest of foreign governments. At the same time as this health crisis, we must also face the economic crisis. It was intended to guarantee essential services and basic sub-administrations to the entire population. We approved seven decrees in the tax area, which affected thirteen taxes with more than 6_million cumulative beneficiaries, 665_million impact on the treasury and 114_million impact on the budget 2020, and which affect areas such as tourism, sub-administrations, water canon, etc. The government, on March 12, even before the closure of the schools, pushed a decree to set aside a fund of 1,000_million euros of corporate liquidity. Now, more than a thousand requests have been made. Economic support that has also materialised through the lines of specific help for the sectors that are fully affected by the crisis, such as tourism, trade, cultural, sport, maritime and fisheries, among others. The third emergence: social emergence. To do this, we have had to put in place measures to facilitate liquidity for workers, families and businesses. Precisely, because at these times of difficulty, when it has been difficult to get there in many cases at the payment of ERTOs, when it is not billed, when the locals do not enter and when the workers cannot enter their place of work because of the confinement, it means that the liquidity is in the hands, precisely, of the enterprises, the families and the workers. This is why we have activated extraordinary lines of help for the payment of loguers for families with economic hardships, and advanced payment aids for loguers for large people and women victims of male violence. We've also delivered 34,000 devices to families to avoid digital bretxa and we've set up about 150,000 money plates to help feeder. Even if we do not have embassies, like the states, which do, we have tried not to leave any city of band and we have managed 1,548 cases from 2,820 Catalans to 107 countries, with a rate of more than 80_percent of cases resolved satisfactorily. As you see, I only make a very brief account of some of the measures taken, which will be extended further into the government's joint venture. As they can prove, the list of measures and decisions that have been taken during these three months and a half of health crisis is very long, and it could still be more if we had not done a condensation exercise and synthesis for today's debate. In any case, anyone who has followed closely the drawings and drawings of appearances of these months knows who is the unending source of the work done. Yes, I want to share with you my conviction, confessed too often, that all this, the management of this crisis and the bitter resistance against the coronavirus, would not have been possible with the work of a single government, neither of Catalonia nor of others; everyone has played a role. Everyone has brought in their grit or their serene plaza, from the citizens individually to the institutions throughout the country and beyond. I have no problem, years on the contrary, of recognizing that, if we get out of it – that we get out of it – it is thanks to the efforts of many people, of many organizations and institutions that have come together to fight the pandemic. And now I'm taking advantage, a little more, of everyone's work. Many, many thanks to all the citizens. As you know, the pandemic has had two cares: the devastating malalty, with so many affected and so many victims, but also the face of the solidary compromise reaction, which takes over Catalan society. No, I'm not saying that. It is truly a pride and an honor to live in a country with this ability to mobilize consciences and collective support actions. In fact, I have the absolute conviction that it is for this way of being of the Catalan society that today we are still a people with a vocation of future and personality. The strength of Catalan civil society is splendid. A society of thousands and thousands of entities and social groups that organize and commit themselves to do the best for their environment and to help the people who need it the most. An authentic web of mutual support full of talent, culture and sense of freedom and justice. I also want to thank the commitment of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who decided, all together, to reorient their production to serve urgent and essential equipment to fight the virus. More than two thousand businesses– two thousand businesses– were offered to the marketplace organized for the government. And we have to celebrate this ability to adapt businesses in our country; without them it would not have been possible to face the shortcomings of a centralized management, which made us suffer a lot to find the necessary sanitary and civil protection equipment. This ability to adapt, the rapid reaction are decisive in circumstances such as viscudes in the coronavirus. And, as you know perfectly well, these are first-class characteristics of small and medium-sized states, which can act with proximity, adaptability, speed. It is a conclusion that has come to various studies published during this period; it would have no value if I told them, but all the studies that endorse it. But if there has been someone who has been essential and essential in all this fight, these have been the health professionals, the care and social care professionals, the emergence professionals and the essential services, who have not failed one day, not one minute, during all these months. They themselves have expressed it very well. It is not a question of making them just a applause and a thank you, but that it is a cross-cutting and consensus-based commitment to their professional recognition and to equip them with the support and infrastructure they deserve. This, as you know, is also a compromise of mine and I have demanded of my government. And, for what he does to public recognition, it is obvious that it is necessary to compensate the health and residential professionals for the work done. For this reason, and I believe that with the consent of the whole chamber, we have allocated €140 million to the professionals of the public health and residence system. But the emergence isn't over. The health emergency will not end until you have a vaccine that stops the Covid. And that's why we can't relax in any way. There are known the important shootbacks in Germany, Portugal or the Xina, and many other rights, which have forced the people to return to strict confinement. The Government of Catalonia, of course, is not relaxed; we are still tense and we will do so in the next few months. That's why we're doing all the necessary contingency plans and keeping all the attention on Procicate teams, activated at all times. The attitude of alertness and vigilance and containment also calls for citizenship, which is the most effective front to avoid situations that we do not want. In this sense, and coordinated by the Process, all departments of the Government of Catalonia have the task of keeping their contingency plans in place before July 31st of this month. Now more than ever we have to act with responsibility and planning. It would be a real fear not to prepare yourself. And we have to do it with all the rigour to get the first one right, if we're lucky enough to face a second one. They can't fail. And to finish this first part of the presentation, dedicated to the balance of management, it is also certain that I have not yet avoided the necessary self-criticism. It can't get any better without self-criticism. Without critical expertise and constant need for improvement, there are never any good results. We haven't done everything right. I'm sure we've made some mistakes, and some of them will be put up today on the table, and some of them may not. In any case, we are willing to review how we have made every step, as we have taken every decision, to serve our country better before a threat like this. Because, in short, this has been our will from the beginning, my will and that of all the Councillors and Councillors of this Government: to serve our country as best we have known. We are and are entering a few key months to deal with the outcome of the crisis, and that is now where we must put all our efforts; now we can take our decisions: without any care for the health emergency, still active, and that will continue to feel our priority, we have already weeks and weeks to work in the recovery and recovery phase to mitigate as much as possible the economic and social effects of the pandemic. As you know, we have activated a government mechanism, which we call Coreco, which works in an economic recovery plan and in the re-establishment of the presso parties recently approved in this Parliament. We also work to avoid the social effects that result from this economic crisis, which is already a reality in our country, like all the countries around us. Here, as we have spent in the fight against the health emergency, it is up to us to work again with the hands connected to the scale, without the resources or the skills that Catalonia deserves for its effort and activity. As you know, in the area of health care management, we have entered the dam stage, as we have decided to name this period, since the 18th of June all Catalonia entered phase 3 of the decontainment. At this point, I signed the decree stipulating the end of phase 3, so that I could enter a fully regulated stage for the Government of Catalonia through the Process and always comply with the criteria of the experts, and, as always, with a single priority: the salvation and life of the citizens. This new stage of dam is regulated with the criteria of clarity and rigour. The regulations, we understand, are clearer than the one that had so far imposed the Spanish government, which was very emboldened and difficult to understand and to complete. At this stage we need to make it clear that the key to getting out of this situation is to protect our collection. That is to say, individual protection measures are at the time of collective protection measures. To hear 'us, we talk about the use of the mask, the hygiene of the hands and the individual distance. I insist: we can't relax; no one has to do it if we don't want to go back. Mask, hands, distance are decisive for the new recovery stage. And we want everyone to understand that we have not yet overcome the Covid threat and that we must continue to protect ourselves in order to protect above all the most vulnerable. We have entered a stage, as from the beginning, in which solidarity, the civic duty of protection and the collective commitment are more decisive than ever. And when I do, I have no doubt that this government will not shake its hand to make the decisions that are needed to age for the salvation of the people. We need to be prepared for an important rebound, if it's produced, for an on-line _second, if it's produced. Obviously, as I said a few minutes ago, the government is working and preparing us for any new outbreak of the pandemic, as well as a new wave of infection. This is why they are in more than eighty sectoral plans, with specific measures, for areas as diverse as they go from bookstores, to colonies and sports activities of summer, to the day centers of the great people, to religious places of worship, to markets and fires or to plagiarism. They are sectoral plans that are reinforced with contingency plans drawn up from the departments of the Generality for any possible re-suspension or re-suspension, it is clear that, yes, the provision of sanitary material for intensive care units, personal protective equipment, if necessary. I told them, in speaking to them about the emergency, that we had had a health emergency, but that we are also before an economic, social and educational emergency. Macroeconomic forecasts for this year are very worrying. Catalonia's GDP can fall to two-digit, unseen figures of more than 10_per_cent. The atur fee will fit over 17_per_cent, maybe until it reaches 20_per_cent. It will destroy between 7 and 10 per cent of the work places. The situation, therefore, is difficult, is critical. We've already approved rescue and repair measures in the past few months. It meant solving immediate needs to cope with the emergency – resources for Health and for the residential and emergency areas, resources for mobility and transport, resources for Education –, figures in €5,000_million. We claim a direct transfer from the State. The EUR 16,000 million it has allocated to all communities is an absolutely insufficient amount. The bill for the coronavirus cannot be an increase of the deut de Catalunya. The Spanish government can't leave us in the dark another time. Now as at present, moreover, he has not yet made a single payment, leaving the Government of the Generality in a very delicate situation in the field of the Treasury. Secondly, we have contributed to the fact that the productive capacity and inputs of workers and businesses are maintained, both for criteria of social justice and to ensure that they can resume their activities. We have helped the liquidity of workers and families by increasing the payment of all the taxes that the Generality has to pay, all of them; maintaining all the service contracts, even if they are not carried out, paying the equivalent under the workers and a share of the fixed costs; direct aid to the work sectors, businesses and acquaintances, and the credits that previously commented on by the Catalan Institute of Finance for up to 1,000_million euros. And, if we, the Government of Catalonia, had had all the skills of one state, had applied a policy of freezing time and public investment priorities; we would not have approved only the vital minimum income, which was approved three months late, but we would have approved the family reconciliation subsidy; we would have approved direct aid, and not prestec, to the tourism, trade or culture sector; we would have made the moratorium on taxes and any other charge, and, of course, we would have spent no euro on buying tanks, or military warheads, or the Royal House. But, unfortunately, we are not independent, and we have to face this pandemic with the hands tied to the scale, knowing that any assumption of Catalonia, whatever it is, applied in the current conditions, will always be an insufficient assumption; knowing that this country generates sufficient resources to be able to get out of this pandemic, but that we are not the ones who manage them, but the State; knowing that a fiscal deficit of 6 or 8 per cent, grabs the amount of money that they want, but in any case more than 14,000_million euros, it is a huge waste that asphyxiates us, yes, in the asphyxiation, that does not allow our citizens, all our citizens, to vote in whatever way they want, to enjoy better things. And, also, with hands tied to the scale, and, if I may, with two or more, so we have not had a moment, because there is a lot at stake, and we can enjoy the last euro we can. Before this finding, on May 2, I insist, we created this commission, the Coreco commission, with three very concrete tasks: to reactivate a plan for reactivation and reduce the impact it has on enterprises; a _second priority task of the presuppositional parties, and, finally, a third task to collect all those measures that may reduce the impact on enterprises; a plan that is divided into four strategic axes, with different lines of action: a first line, economy for life; a _second line, digitization; a third line, ecological transition, and a _fourth line, society of knowledge. It is expected to have a first version of this plan on July 16th and 17th, and approved it for the Government on July 21st. That is to say, on July 21st we will have priority assumptions and cross-cutting actions and fixed strategic sectors, thus carrying out the recovery stage, which is very important, substantive, but also as insufficient as Catalonia's assumptions will always be until Catalonia is an independent state. Finally, I don't want to finish this dam without talking about the emergence of education. The first impact we had: 5,492 closed centres, more than 1,600,000 confined students, 118,000 teachers and 8,000 administration staff and services without face-to-face activity, plus all the side effects of school teachers, out-of-school activities, etc. The concern was always to guarantee content and training to all families, that the digital brettxa leaves no one in the band. By September, the educational centres will operate with the utmost normality and presence, in line with what is happening to all the countries around us. We are willing to ensure that by September all the schools will open with normality and security. It's a government compromise; maybe it's the most important compromise of the coming months. It will be an exceptional course, because, once the situation of health emergency has passed, we find ourselves before an educational emergency. I want to recognize the hard work of the entire educational community, and put the children and young people back in the center. I want to thank all, teachers and teachers, couples... and teachers and representatives of the educational community, their efforts, their involvement, and also their criticisms, for helping us to improve, yes, sir. The Government has stipulated an extraordinary expenditure of 450_million euros in education, 233 of which are intended for the incorporation of five thousand professionals, between teaching staff and non-docent staff, to strengthen the educational care of the students. In the hiring of professionals, if we go further, we will get to where we need the maximum coordination with the sector. The reversal also envisages the deployment of the Digital Education Platform, with a planned expenditure of 103_million euros at the length of the coming course, and 33_million euros, from fighting against segregation, to extra-curricular reinforcement activities. I insist, now the great challenge is the return to school; we will put all the attention and all the efforts of the government. That's where society's future lies. They can spare no effort or resources to the schools in a situation like the current one. Counselor Bargalló knows he has all my support to guarantee the educational dam. We'll invest the resources we need, we'll hire the masters who care. We play a lot; in fact, we play it all, because the future, ladies and gentlemen, it is not ours, it is not from what we are today in this room, but from the boys and girls and young people who are raising up at our schools. The challenge is also here colossal, because we are talking about the most important activity that a country has, its youth. That's why I'm glad we're already in charge of getting back to school before the current emergency. And I do it publicly..., I'm in the hands of the educational community, the whole educational community, to dialogue and consensus this return to school. Another reaffirmation arose from this crisis: the importance of holding resources. I think this will be a debate that the next few months will be central to Catalonia. On the part of this Government there has been a constant demand for the President of the Spanish Government. In the same way that he has all my support to demand the highest celerity in the distribution of the funds to come from Europe, our Government asks all of you, all the parliamentary groups of this chamber, unity and unequivocal support to demand that the Spanish Government expand and distribute the Covid state funds with Catalonia is deserved. We will not get out of this crisis, as in the past, with expenditure-restricted receipts. In this case, an injection of money without precedent, to safeguard the economy and to avoid failures of corporate facilities and a general impoverishment. I have already referred to the €5,000_million with which the Government of the Xifra Government has so far spent the pandemic in terms of basic health care, extra and reduced entry costs. But beyond that, we need to boost a recovery plan that allows the most affected sectors to maintain their activity or refocus their expertise. In fact, some figures are really striking. The Enterprise Council estimated that a public contribution of EUR 10,000_million would be needed to help the tourism and trade sector alone, to which it would add other initiatives to offset more than EUR 800_million of declared losses for the cultural sectors, or EUR 2,500_million of losses in the sport sector, or more than EUR 800_million of losses that have been exposed by third sector entities. At this colossal point, we face each other, and we do it for the time being without the resources we need. The government's latest estimate is that Catalonia needs €30,000_million to face with guarantees the reconstruction of the country, and we will not accept less than it is close to us. But this should not be a struggle of the government and of the groups that support it, only; it should be the struggle of the whole Parliament. These moneys, these resources, are for all the citizens of Catalonia, they vote for what they vote for, they viscose where they viscose. I encourage them to let go of partyism and to think about the welfare of all our citizens. Join this complaint, think about the future and the opportunities of all, fight for the rights of all. And that's why we need all of you, from your political formations, to "squeeze," "squeeze," because the government of the state is complex. Some of his companies are ministers in Madrid. The groups of the PSC and the common will depend on whether Catalonia can count on the resources it needs. I do not fail the Catalans, now we need more than ever, as we need to obtain additional European financing through the European Stability Mechanism; I have not spoken often in my appearances. That is why I will send a letter to President Sánchez and another letter to the CEO of the Mede, Mr Klaus Regling, because the first sol·liciti on behalf of Catalonia a loan of 5,000_millions, 2_percent of Catalan GDP. To Mr Regling I will inform you that the Government of Catalonia accepts the conditions of the Mede, because it allows you to return it to 0.1_per_cent and can donate immediate liquidity. Catalonia can't wait for European aid to come by the year, we'll be late; we need money and resources now, we need it now. And, naturally, I trust that President Sánchez will not pose any obstacle and that he will manage it on behalf of Catalonia; it is not possible to hear the contrary. Finally, and respecting the urgency of having resources, there are two last petitions that I hope will also obtain the unanimous agreement of the chamber. First, the '1_per_cent, which today, July 1, still incomprehensiblely ridiculous, continues to the '1_per_cent. At 0_per_cent, ladies and gentlemen, we are in deficit for Catalonia, on an emergence as we have not experienced in our lives. This 1_per_cent means 2,500_million euros for Catalonia. It is not at our hands, it is at the hands of the Spanish Government to approve it; but this Parliament can give support to the whole Government to claim it together. This is the unit we need now. And the second petition, which I hope also counts with all its support: that it is allowed the assemblies to dispose of all its surpluses and Romans. It is absolutely incomprehensible as to these heights..., and today it seems to me that the Federation of Spanish Municipalities has followed the one that claims that 28,000_million at the Spanish level – at the Catalan level we believe that there are 2,500, for the figures we contemplate –..., it is absolutely unbelievable that these moneys continue to be locked in a bank account, that the joints and locals can not use them. But if we need all resources and even the last euro! For God's sake! If that's just a signature of someone to do in Madrid! So that they do it; that they signify and that they allow the assemblies to have these resources, because they will be resources that can greatly help to activate the economy in the towns and cities of Catalonia. We are prepared for this great pact to achieve all the resources that Catalonia needs today. Is the chamber there? Ladies and gentlemen, are we all going? We're really working because Catalonia can't get out? So let's do it together, we're still loyal to the citizenry of Catalonia, with the effort made by the citizenry of Catalonia, with the hope that the citizenry of Catalonia has. Now is the time to give your face to our fellow citizens, now is the time to thank them for the effort of these months; but we need these resources. We can't store ourselves, we can't look at another band, we have to be at their side, at all the citizens, because these resources revert to all the citizens. I certainly hope to count on your support. It will not be the same as before the arrival of the Covid, until we have the capacity to develop and administer the vaccine. It's all worked out: we've gotten used to chewing, we've spent many weeks hanging out at home just looking for the most essential, we've been taking from our family, from our parents, from our opinions, from our children or from our nets. And all this will mark us for a long time. But this country has demonstrated, in addition to the efforts of many other countries, that it has an immense potential of talent, of research, of innovation, of putting science in the service of life, and we must not all feel proud, because this is no one's heritage, this is a rich collective that makes us much better and helps us to be much better prepared. And if this talent flourishes in the most critical moments, it's because we are able, in this country, to establish an open and open dialogue with the various sectors of society, and so we have done it again. I, like all of you, have made hundreds of meetings and talked to everyone who thought I could help. I have talked to the hospital directors, with entrepreneurs who wanted to manufacture artificial breathers; I have talked constantly with the chambers, with the social and economic agents, with the Council of Social Dialogue, with the main entities of volunteering on a regular basis, with the search centres, with representatives of tourism, commerce, sport, culture, the main entities of the country's volunteering. We've all been talking to everyone. It's a huge wealth, the one that this country has, this permanent dialog to get out of sugar together. I'm not very satisfied, because everyone has always responded with dynamism and willingness to serve. We're lucky to be a country with a strong sense of civic duty and social compromise, and that's what we need to take advantage of. Never, never must we lose this immense social dynamism that makes us get where we propose. No one – no one –, no political party or ruling party, will ever profit, because this social heritage is powerful precisely because it is free. What is the function of a good government for me? In no case is it to put interbanks at this civic potential. All the opposite, a good government is dedicated above all to helping the social sectors to progress, to make possible the personal projects and collectivities that they want not to open up. That is why I am making my own, for example, the proposal of the Metges College for a structural reform of the health system, as well as the social and health integration that we have begun to put into effect these last few months. Warm up more resources and warm up better health care services. I invite you to read the decision that all the Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Nurses of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Nurses of Catalonia and also the grouping of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges of Colleges The proposals, it seems to me that many of those points can be incorporated and many of those points must have, I am not convinced, the consensus of all political forces. This is why the Government will appoint a committee of independent experts, professionals in the health sector, to work together with the Health Department on the structural change measures we need. I repeat, I invite all the groups in the chamber to join in there; with the strength of all, we can achieve it. Because the experience of the pandemic must also serve us to face the future collection in a different way. Many things can change from now on if we are able to keep as central to public interest the salvation and life of people. If we don't move away from here, with this perspective, many approaches can change and they can acquire a more humanistic and sensitive look at people and our natural environment. If I may, on this final stretch of my exhibition I would also like to make some reflections, perhaps a personal point but today I am interested in sharing with all of you and with the citizenry. On the 19th of April, addressing all the citizens of the Canong House, I said that it was also up to us to draw the country's time, to radically set us up, to say, before the scene, the analysis of the current system with a disruptive attitude of innovation. Because it's not about rebuilding the past, it's about building a new future. It would only help if you changed everything so that you kept going the same way. We can analyze without complacency, resentment, or victimism what we should have had, and we don't have. We need to identify who really are the strategic and essential sectors of the country. Then I remembered a few words from the UN Secretary General, António Guterres, that still seem to me current. The Secretary General said: "Everything that is done during and after this crisis must be very focused on building more equal, inclusive and sustainable economies, as well as more resilient societies, to deal with both pandemics and climate change and the many other global challenges ahead of us. I hope we all agree. That's why I called on the Catalan society to give an inclusive response to the country's future, looking up, leaving the world to go back and preparing us for the future, knowing that from now on any action you take every single one of us has to benefit the whole community. And I agree: we want to listen to everyone, we want to learn from everyone, we want to decide the future with everyone. To do this exercise we have set up a team of plural talents that we call Catalonia 2022. We introduced him publicly a few weeks ago and he started working at a good pace under the baton of Victory Alsina and Genís Roca, with a group of thirty experts from various backgrounds. In these moments Catalonia 22 is working on the key variables where Catalonia will be located after the pandemic. This first quantitative and qualitative analysis will complete this month of July. By September they will start working on what they call country bets, which will land on pragmatic and possible action plans, with dialogue and contrast with multiple social, economic, scientific and cultural agents in the country. The coordinators of this work group are at your disposal to return them at every moment of their work. It's a group of experts that we wanted completely independent of the government and, if I may, shield them from the avatars that may be in the proper months in this government. So, as long as this is a job that is as involved as possible, the coming week will be the announcement of how to participate, beyond the more than 100 entities and groups that have already been contacted. An open call, an open call to add plans to Project Catalunya 22. Now I'm done. A few speeches – a few speeches – have moved me more and more during these three months and months than the President of Germany said to wish the good Easter to his fellow citizens – I don't know if you had the opportunity to read it. The best of European, humanism and tolerance, solidarity and civic and democratic experience was in that speech. Frank-Walter Steinmeier began with the following: "The pandemic shows us that we are vulnerable. Maybe we've been creguing too long as we're invulnerable, that we can only go more in a hurry, more up there, more over there. It was a mistake. But the crisis doesn't just show us this, it also shows us how we are, from the forts, everything we can build. He continued: "I am deeply impressed by the effort our country has made in the past weeks. It's not over yet, but we can say today, "Every one of you has radically changed your life. Each of you has saved human lives and saved more every day. I wouldn't know how to say it better than the German president, how to better thank all Catalans and Catalans for their efforts and their commitment. And Steinmeier ended: "We are not making the efforts we are making these days because a hand of iron forces us to do so. We did this because we are a living democracy with responsible citizens, a democracy in which we trust each other to listen to facts and arguments, to demonstrate arguments and to do the right thing. A democracy in which every life counts. Today is also the hour of thanksgiving; one more time, yes, because we would never tire of thanking everyone who took care of us. If I may express it this way, I insist that the great lesson taken from these days is that we must take care of those who care for us; that never, ever more, of people who go for our salvation, for our education, for our protection, who transport us, for our food, for our development, in short, as human beings, than ever, never more, can say that we do not treat them with the utmost respect and with all dignity. We already know who is essential in this country. If you make a list now, I wouldn't forget anything; but don't worry, they're in our minds and in everyone's hearts. Let us listen to their demands, let us break with the old routines, let us give them the attention they deserve. Never, like these days, have the words "public server" and "commonly" not been more intimately connected. I felt the need to thank the German President for the words that so much helped me at such a difficult time collectively, but also personally. I wrote him a letter; I told him that his message had been that he had asked many of us and that he would make my hope and his defence of humanism and democracy. I honestly believe that that's the way it is, that from this experience, as the president said, we can grow and grow. This pandemic has plagued our lives, has caused us to change our habits, our mobility, our relationships and contacts with family, friends and fellow workers, has forced us to stay home many days and weeks in a row, without leaving for nothing but the most basic; it is necessary to protect ourselves and go to protect others, especially the most vulnerable. But far from making us more leftovers, more selfish or more distrustful, the pandemic has taught us that we can get out of it if we accept a civic duty and a social commitment as citizens as we are. We have discovered these days a new face of the famous republican virtue: we have recognized ourselves in the more human face of a society that had made people anti-pathic and that only the economic gain, the regeneration of wealth and all the human enslavements that were going on were prioritised. With the pandemic we have put the salvation and life of people in the center, nothing else has guided us in our decisions. We have often done so against the interests of economic sectors that would have wanted to continue normal activity in order not to lose anything; but if we had done so, we would have lost everyone. Therefore, hold on to life and viscose it completely. Let us not forget one day that humanity can make another role on Earth; that our environment, that our nature needs us active and willing to preserve natural, cultural, linguistic, religious, ideological, sexual diversity and all possible diversity. And we don't forget a day when people are the center of decisions. A little more than two years ago, when I introduced myself here before all of you to ask for the confidence to lead the government of this country, I ended my intervention with what ended up feeling my personal and political identity: for Catalonia and for life. Today I repeat it more convinced than ever. Because I have all the confidence that our system of values has changed; that the world of yesterday no longer holds us, because it no longer exists; that nothing can be the same again; that we are after so many selfishness, so many injustices, a hypocrisy that devoured us. And for what it does to us working in this house, in this Parliament, to all the Members and Members, we may finally add that Havel was right and that morality is omnipresent, just like politics, and politics that departs from morality is simply a bad policy. If that's what it is, I repeat it, let's grow up. We will grow as a nation, we will grow as a compromised and empowered society, we will grow in defense of democracy and freedom. No, the emergence isn't over. But it is also time to devote time and special attention to the victims of the pandemic, their family and friends, and to all the people who have suffered it in the first person. We've all felt fragile, alone, with the sadness deeply attached to the skin, these months. During the strictest confinement, I spent many hours all alone at the Canong House. All day long, it didn't stop: it was connected through tricks with the heads of the country's detention hospitals or with videoconferencing with the most affected sectors; the day was spent flying. And it was at night, when I heard the bells of the cathedral of Barcelona or the bell of Palau, or I looked through the window and saw that there was no one on the street of the Bishop, when I felt deeply this loneliness, a silence that I knew was filled with tears in many houses of our country. And of all that I think we haven't found the way to do well is to accompany our esteemed people who have died these months. There are many families who have not been able to accompany whom they regard most in these last moments of life. We have not been able to go to that or that other hospital, to that residence, and to be sure at the expense of our fathers and seas, our godparents, our Germans, and to take them simply by hand to tell them that they were not alone. This is a wound to the souls of many people, of our people, a pain that will take a long time to pass, a pain badly done, morally with a huge impact, and above all we also need a reflection of country. On behalf of the Government of Catalonia I want to end by expressing my condolences to all families who have lost a father or a mother, a father or a godfather, a bird or an avia, a son, a German, a friend, a companion. My immense embrace to all those who have lost an esteemed person in this pandemic. For this reason, on the 9th of July, we will remind you in an act of national homenation to keep you all well present in memory. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.3.0	Thank you, President. Then, and on behalf of the government, has the word "Interior Counselor," Mr. Miquel Buch. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.4.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Members, Members, I want to begin my intervention as the President has finished, giving thanks and recognition, and giving my most sincere condolences to all the families and friends of the people who have suffered some esteem that have left them in the last few months as a result of this pandemic caused by the Covid-19. I also want to show my solidarity with all the people who have suffered or who are struggling against this disease. And thirdly, and remembering that the management of the emergency has not yet been completed and that we are still attentive and loving to the head of the Process, but today we are making a first balance, too, as the president has done, thank the whole health world for its effort, compromise and ability to overcome, as well as all the public workers who go through our security and emergencies. And I also think it's fair to give thanks to all public servants, to all, to all, to all people who work and have worked in the field of services, whether it's government or private businesses: trades, transporters, big companies, who have aged because we haven't had enough during these months. And I can't close the chapter of graces without doing it to the whole population, which has suffered extremely complicated moments, the result of a confinement that we never had; some logical new ones, some new normative ones, a new life that, of course, could not have imagined many of us. And in a very special way a gigant grace, a huge grace to all the children of Catalonia. We need to know how much effort they've all done, as their families have done, but I honestly believe that we value the difficulty they've put in for the rascal these weeks. As an infographic that the Interior Department did, they and they are the true champions of confinement. You've taught us so much, you've taught us so much... thank you, thank you so much, as I am and as you did. MPs and MPs, the health emergence for Covid-19_has put to the test not only the capacity of the health system, but also the robust civil protection system and emergencies of Catalonia. The president has spoken to us about the history, the data, the objectives, the priorities, the decisions that we have before the government, and the councilwoman Vergés sure that she will refer to all that is the health chapter, the world of salvation. Allow me to address all of you with respect to the indispensable Catalan system of emergencies needed for the country we live in. It is this system that has made possible from the very first moment a coordinated response to Catalonia from the whole format for different public administrations, for entities and organizations, and also for the population in general. The emergence for Covid-19_has been the most extensive and intense response to date for this catal public emergence system: to maintain the uninterrupted coordination device from more than three and a half months ago. Only an experienced civil protection and emergency system can have tools and professional capacities to respond to all types of hard emergencies and circumstances, with adaptive and persistent capacity for many months without interruption. It should be remembered that Catalonia's civil protection and emergency system has given a response to the long past few years of serious emergencies and an impact on the population, such as Germanywings' sinister air in 2015, the car accident of Freginals in 2016, the storms in Barcelona and Cambrils in 17 or the generalised snow in 18, which paralyzed our entire territory. More recently, this system has faced a series of consecutive high-risk and high-emergence situations and has given effective response in all cases. In just over a year, a response was given to the heavy forest fires in the Ebre Lands at the end of June 19th, to the heavy floods in the Francolí in October 19th and, this year, the year 2020, and without a solution of continuity, to the chemical explosion of Iqoxe on the 14th generation or to the severe effects of the temporary Glory of the end of generation and, finally, to the current health emergence for the Covid-19. In all cases, in all cases, the system had an emergencies plan appropriate to the concrete risk and emergence, and manifested the important preparation work done in the field of civil protection. The Directorate-General for Civil Protection, as the coordinator of this system, has carried out an important task of forecasting, prevention and planning, which has made available at present a dozen plans for the emergence of the Government of Catalonia. All this preparation work is what allows you to manage emergencies from a perspective of anticipation, of ability and not of improvisation, to go forward to emergencies and, therefore, to reduce the impact that you can have on the population. This is also the case of the Covid-19, through the specific emergency plan for sanitary emergencies, which unfortunately at these times is still very present. Specifically, the emergency response plan for emerging communicable diseases with high risk potential is the technical and legal framework through which the response to the health emergency for Covid-19 in Catalonia is structured. This plan was initially approved for the Government of the Generality in 2010, twenty years ago, in the wake of the preparation of the response to a possible health emergency for the pandemic of influenza A. The Catalan civil protection and emergency system was the first, the first to dispose of this plan in the conjunction of the State, and, taking advantage of its structure, the Department of Interior we charged to Civil Protection to review this plan, adapt it to this new pandemic that reached, the pandemic of the coronavirus, and hold it to a possible health emergency that ultimately, and badly, affected us all. So on the 28th of February, the Catalonian Civil Protection Commission welcomed the proposal to review this plan and on the 3rd of March – and the President said before – the Government approved it, this review. Among the most relevant changes to highlight the incorporation of the technical committee, which was not previously foreseen, as well as the revision of the operational phases and a new risk analysis, fact, the latter, for the Department of Health. Operational phases that have been activated and responding to every situation we have encountered. It is currently in the phase of emergencies from the 12th of March. This preparation that we have seen for Covid can also be seen in other areas, as now in the psychological and psychosocial care procedures of the population, which set up the recent Protocol for the care of people in difficult emergencies, which I gave to the government last month of this year. Both the protocol and the plan for health emergencies are an exhibition of the pioneering character of the civil protection of our country, which is complemented with innovative tools such as the management of extreme floods that was put in operation at the Centre d'Emergences de Catalunya on October of the year 2018, the fruit of the European project Anywhere, which allowed the Civil Protection of Catalonia to be the first to count on the ability to advance to the floods subtended in real time and served, this model, of export to other state and European spheres such as, for example, Italy, France or Finland. The Catalan emergence system is integrated for all the emergence and security services of the Government of Catalonia, but also for the assemblies – and I have a small parenthesis: an essential key piece also in the management of this emergence for the Covid-19, and also for the self-protection services of all public and private activities, and ultimately of the Civil Protection and Emergencies volunteer. To value the work done for all these services and volunteering during the last few months, they respond to the multiple incidents, managing situations that have never been seen before, in support of the health system as well. In the case of the Civil Protection Volunteer, after more than twenty years of regulation and preparation of this collection of women and men, Catalans and Catalans, who in an unselfish way want to help the citizens in their municipalities in situations of risk and emergence, the Covid-19_has allowed to prove the import of their pocket in the municipal world, close to the citizen, through the joints, from guaranteeing the municipal logistics for the population in wing and for the large people and for vulnerable people to inform about the measures of confinement at all times. The Directorate General of Civil Protection is the engine that guarantees the functioning of the system through permanent coordination with all agents. Civil Protection Technicians manage the Catalonia Emergencies Centre and the operating device that was deployed to respond to the Emergency. This arrangement faced the confinement of the Conca d'Odena, which the president referred to, with a guaranteed deployment and guaranteeing all the services in a few hours. The same techniques have managed the adaptation device to the state-of-the-art alarm situation; they have continuously analysed the legal developments, constant, and have transcribed them to practical and operational questions to facilitate work in the city; often – not to mention always – with little time available before the entry into force of this regulation. The existence of a territorial structure of Civil Protection of the Republic of Moldova has also been essential. Even being a small, very small number of people, these technicians and these technicians have been in constant contact with large assemblies and especially with the mayors of small municipalities and have tried to answer all doubts, problems, needing information and also criteria. First in relation to the limitation of activities and then to the gradual and safe recovery of the same activities. This coordination task for the Civil Protection Technicians of the Government of Catalonia has been complemented in an essential way by the coordination of the Municipal Civil Protection Technicians, which gave continuity to the decision making and to the operational instructions and criteria emanating from the Process and its coordination and direction bodies. The task of these techniques is often the most hidden, despite its very important work in the system. To finish this chapter, the Directorate-General for Civil Protection has also been in charge of coordinating the set of actors responsible for ensuring the normal functioning of basic services. The table of essential services and basic sub-administrations has gathered up to fourteen times during this pandemic, with the presence of representatives from the public and private sectors, from all basic services, such as water, gas, electricity, telecommunications, food, pharmaceuticals or funeral services. The table has as its objective to ensure the functioning of basic services with the coordination and definition of operational lines and technical criteria. The table has been followed by the situation of the basic services and the possible consequences that have been resolved in advance, avoiding critical situations regarding the availability of some basic and essential products for the population. I'd like to give you some details. Of course, they do not reflect or reflect all the actions that have been achieved, but they will put into value the work done for the workers and the workers, for the conjunction of the workers and the workers of the Department of Interior. For what he does to the area of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Scur Squad S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. For what he does to the Cos de Bombers of the Generalitat de Catalunya, he has also given support to the health group in all that has been required of him. They helped deploy three temporary hospitals in Barcelona, Sabadell and Lleida, and have performed a total of 123 activities in large people's residences, activities in disinfection, sectorization or even visits and advisories. From the field of Civil Protection, seventy-three meetings have been held to coordinate the Procicate. Seventy-three meetings in fifteen weeks, a half-five meetings each week and with a mobilization of between thirty and fifty people each meeting. Some sixty thousand citizen, operational or institutional consultations have been managed and answered, and in the framework of the technical team together with the Department of Health and the Department of Interior has supported the development of sectoral plans, to which the President has referred before, which have already been approved, thirty-six have been approved and one-twenty more are pending. And to close the data chapter, for which he does phone 112, a total of 622,926 tricks have been rejected. He came to operate from four different rooms, as well as the increments we had of tricks, that the first few days came to increments of 300_per_cent. Of the 620,000 tricks, approximately 145,000 were for consultations with the Covid-19. I'm done. I mean, the work of the Interior Department doesn't end here, not much less. We are working on the application of better based on the analysis that we are already doing of the feta management of the emergence. We are ahead of a historical, global emergence, and we still have a lot of work to do. You know that. For this reason, we constantly evaluate ourselves to be better at our work, which, in short, must revert to the welfare of the citizenry, of the conjunction of the people. I would like to put in value that a territory like català needs a service with high capacity to coordinate, manage and respond to all types of emergencies. For this reason, as I say, from the Department of the Interior, we continue to work with the objective of continuing to have a robust, powerful and pioneering system of security and emergencies, adapting it to our emerging risks, the fruit of the transnational character we have. But I don't want to stop saying, one more time, that Catalonia has a system of emergencies, forged with the passage of years and from the ideological diversity that the citizenry has had in front of the institutions. A system that is robust, that counts with great professionals, compromises and compromises with the country and its people. A system suitable for emergencies, which is constantly reviewed for a constant improvement and, above all, to have a capacity to adapt to our reptes. The very honourable president, at the beginning of his speech, spoke of the fact that we cannot be satisfied or content, but proud. I share it, President – I share it. Undoubtedly, and also, of course, of course, of errors, but very sincerely, as an advisor to the Interior, I feel very proud of the system of emergencies in Catalonia – as I say, forged with the passage of the years and since the diversity of all those who have composed the governments of Catalonia. It's a system made up of everyone to serve everyone. It's a system made up of all to serve everyone. A great system that also helps to be a better country. I repeat my thanks, I repeat my condolences and I also reiterate the will to continue facing this crisis. Don't fail. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. The greeting counselor, Mrs. Alba Vergés, will continue to speak. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.6.0	Well, good morning to everyone and everyone. Despite all that we have experienced, I am happy, satisfied to share in this house, in the Parliament of Catalonia, a debate like this. An intense debate, a country debate, a debate that must bring us to a better society. Because it's true that the coronavirus has stopped everyone's life, one way or another. There are people who have stopped him at all, and they have to lock blinds from their own business. There are people to whom daily life has stopped, but who have had to be there, who have had to be at the edge of the cano, have had to be doing that professional pocket that they have, therefore, taking care of people. And that's very important in a company. A society that can take care of itself. A society that, although we have had to pause, now forces us to rebuild a new reality that surely – surely, certainly – will not be able to be the same again. It is a world beating, a moment of reality, and it seems to me that the President has said it well, in the words of the President of Germany: "a moment of reality, a moment of alertness to the vulnerability we have, but also to the strength we have, if we know how to take advantage of it. We'll have to learn how to live with this. We still have the epidemic of the coronavirus, but the pandemics, whatever they are, will have the name that they are, will be more known or absolutely unknown as these, have also come to stay. And we are obliged and obliged to prepare ourselves for situations like these and to be able to deal with it, and to leave behind the Government of the Government of Catalonia, so as far as possible, as we left that post-grip A in the emergency plans that we updated, with the emergencies of emerging diseases, that we have served and that continues to work these weeks. We're going to have to live together, and to do that, we need the complicity of all of society. From all the society that stood on the side of Salut, it stood entirely on the side of Salut, on the side of that which was a priority, in order to protect ourselves among all of us and which we now have to rebalance because it is restored to life. But unfortunately – but we don't have to say with a big negit either – life will be different, but it will be; life can continue to feel activity and must continue to feel, and we have the obligation to know how to explain with what measures we need to be able to live together. That is why it is important to make a balance of what has happened, a retreat of learnings above all, and to set priorities as we look to the future. And starting with the balance, I want to start with the forts; the forts, which we have many. The first is cabdal: we have a public and universal health system. This character that we have forged for our society, of universal, of a system of salvation that wants to guarantee the right to salvation to everyone, that we do not want to leave anyone behind and where everyone is attached and no one is discriminated against is the basis for having overcome this first phase of the pandemic in the way that we have done, with this solidarity, with this intense work of our professionals, and with this understanding and recognition by the citizenry. It's the only way we have the ability to give an equitable response and a human response to this epidemic and this virus, which has a very important human component. And the system must also have this ability to adapt. And this has been shown by our professionals. In this pandemic we have been able to incorporate into the system 3,527 people, more all those professionals than the same centers have already incorporated, mostly doctors and nurses than the same centers have been able to contract in these hard weeks. The Health Department has also been a facilitator of two calls from important professionals: a call from health professionals for us in space– we should open up spaces–, medical professionals, nurses, nursing assistants, carers and all those professionals we may need. And also a specific call to resident professionals who have also been patenting a lot. The difference in places we worked between 2007..., of that 2017 premise – I'm sorry –, which was extended until 2019, in relation to 2020, is 6,317 people. Thanks to this strengthening of the system, which we have already started in the last few years, we have also been able to cope with this epidemic. Thank you for saying that we ended a hard time with a few crisis exit receipts that we had never shared, thanks to being able to end all this, we also managed to cope with this epidemic. The contract of total residents who complete their training in Catalonia is 50,23_per_cent. It may seem a little bit, but it's a lot with the system as it stands. There are 537 people who commit them to our system, which is the most important, we commit them to this present and future system. We have had to grow in a spectacular way, until we have more than 27,000 beds available in our system. And when I speak of beds, I speak of conventional beds, in hospitals; of beds of criticism, of home care, in these hospitals at home; of the pavilions that we have had to open and also of the hotels greeting. And here I take advantage of giving thanks to society in general, and to the group of hoteliers, for having made himself available, too, to Salut, as the whole society has done. We have enabled six spaces in pavilions; fifty-eight hotels, thirty of which, for professionals. Eight hundred professionals have not been able to make use of their daily lives, and this is a lot and it also means in which conditions they also had to work, that being at the head of this epidemic also involved a family member and also, why not say it, for; why, when you are working and tired, to go home and also want to protect your own. And that's a lot of humanity and we've been able to answer, too, by making available the professionals in these areas. The president has explained the odyssey – to me it seems that he has made use of this word – on the material. From the first moment we held the first position in Catalonia, an imported, ailing, absolutely controlled case, much different from what came next weeks, we were already able to make a central shopping mall at the Catalan level, together with employers, together with resident employers, in order to acquire all the material possible. From March 9th to June 15th, only with this centralized purchasing system, we bought more than 42_million units of surgical masks, FFP2 and FFP3 masks, bats, fronts, granotes, gloves, ankles, pants, gels. It's a lot of material, and more so if we take into account what the system was used to, so, to need. This is only with the centralized purchase and here we have to add all the material that the same system and the same centers, therefore, were supplying. We've also had an important challenge, an unknown virus needs the right... we need the right to diagnose, we need to discriminate against people to know if they have this virus or not. Today we have guaranteed the PCR capabilities that our country needs with creases. At the beginning of the pandemic, we started with a laboratory and our own, as we always move forward and always have point centres, we already made available to this laboratory, when other territories had to send the exhibitions to Majadahonda. We already had from the first moment of a laboratory in Catalonia prepared to make these PCRs. We then increased it, to have a capacity of five thousand PCR days, with many difficulties for access to reagents, for access to RNA extraction equipment and many difficulties, also to other materials, as brushes to be able to take the samples to the patient. But at present the public health system has not only been equipped with this capability in the same system, but has also been helped by resources, beyond the health system, to have this capability. And, in addition, it continues with this increase in capacity, with the forecast also to put four more machines in different hospitals of reference to our country. Therefore, we will end up having a capacity or today we have a capacity of 20,600 PCR tests daily. And, in addition, if we need – hopefully not – but if we need it, the ability to re-activate private laboratories, which would give us a capacity of eight thousand PCRs more days. We've done almost 700,000 PCR tests, 400,000 people; more those we've been able to do through the Orpheus project, which is 50,000 more tests. In addition, we have had to reorder the whole health system in Catalonia, from primary care, with different Covid circuits - not-Covid; increasing home care, especially in fragile patients, increasing non-personal, telephonic, virtual care and matching it with the one that required face-to-face care. And with a key paper that has primary care in this early detection; initially through being able to do clinical diagnostics and imaging tests, they then have more resolutive ability with ultrasounds, to do pulmonary ultrasounds, sanitizing and following patients, residents of residences, strengthening health hotels and identifying references to communicable diseases and biosecurity in each primary care team. Our hospitals have also had to reorganize, expand spaces, seek spaces that did not exist before and hospital resources. Adding public and private capacity to our public system, under the umbrella of the Catalonian health system, and prioritising urgent activity, which could not be stopped from being ironed out; obviously urgent and priority. In addition, developing tools that could also be said, such as the Stop Covid19 app, which allowed us to follow up on that people we asked not to join the health centres at the time of the toughest weeks. But we did continue to report his symptoms, to contact him, to follow up on his state of salvation, and if there had been more, we obviously generated the essentials. Of voluntary character and of phonetic deprivation, but with the will there have been millions of people who have downloaded the app, who have reported their state of health during these fifteen weeks. And I want to talk, above all, about the answer. The answer of our professionals, in the first place; ours and our professionals, who have left their hair, not only a little bit of bed, but also in this follow-up, in this take care, in finding the view to the other band, in giving answer through 061. To find a response from our system. One thing cannot doubt our society: that when it has needed the system of salvation, when it has needed them, health professionals have been there. And this has also been recognized from the balconies of our cities and our towns. For this reason, it was essential to be able to make professional recognition and the Government has made an effort, with these 140_million euros, which obviously deserve more than ever our healthcare professionals. Also the country's response, which was also pointed out by the President. When we commented on this country was placed at the expense of salvation, I mean donations, I mean fabrication of material. We have more than 300,000 units of direct donation, all the more so than our system was: the residences, the hospitals, the different centers, of entrepreneurs, of factories directly; with the manufacture of respirators, the knowledge of our country is gone and said: "This is an epidemic, here it is needed and here we are together. The clinical part, the medical part, with the engineering part, of our tech centers in the country, and we were able to certify seven projects, of which, five went forward. Projects of collaboration of hospitals and also of entrepreneurs and technological centers in our country, such as the Clinic, Can Ruti, Sant Pau, the Tauli; with 3D respirators, with the Leitat center. And this whole disposition of society is our response, too, of country. And lastly, the citizen's answer. We have always tried since the Government of Catalonia... – and here I also thank the people..., to Councilwoman Budó, to Councilman Buch, who also accompanied me on these wheels of premsa diàrias - that we could not face an epidemic if the people and the country did not understand what was going on. And we can't explain it with absolute transparency, we can't get all the information and many times we have to say: "for the information we have until today, "with the uncertainty that still exists, "with the ignorance that we still have, but all we know, we passed it on to the citizenry, so that we can understand the effort that was being demanded at the level of the citizenry, at the level of rights and freedoms. And this co-responsibility that was being asked of the citizenry, which could be taken as an individual, was a collective co-responsibility, among all, and that showed the maximum solidarity of our country and the maximum follow-up between all and all before a pandemic like this. Because, if we have strengths – and we can point them out – it is because we have also found ourselves in many difficulties. And the first of them, is that the virus is unknown, the virus is unknown worldwide and, at first, it has a brutal impact, unprecedented. We didn't have any priors, we didn't know their real abyss, we'd just set ourselves every day that I was going through other world-rights, but the uncertainty was there, and especially in the first few moments. Even so, before we have any case detected in Catalonia, the first week of fever we already start official communications to inform with complete transparency of those conversations we have had, of that follow-up we are having, of what the World Health Organization is telling us, of what we are seeing in other countries and of how we are incorporating it into our analysis of the health system. Transparency with the citizenry, as we were preparing, making the protocol of action and the updates that will become, that there were many. Training, too, more than two-hundred professionally trained people, designing information materials, constant communication with various institutions and the health sector, strengthening already from a good principle, the epidemiological network and the 061. This is the first week of fever, in the timeline we've been able to explain. Actually, we were always trying to act so that we could move on to what we could come to. The great speed of propagation surprised the whole world. The need for professionals, materials and equipment put the system in tension. But thanks to this anticipation that we were able to do, that the same system was already thinking and was doing, on February 25, we held the first case of Covid-19 in Catalonia, an imported case, and we already made the first meetings, the first strategic meeting on high-risk communicable diseases. We continued to reinforce 061 and the formation of professionals, and the SUVEC, which is the system of epidemiological surveillance emergencies. And the collapse of the international market in the sanitary material, which could have pointed it out, was..., it was a constant in those first weeks. And thanks, too, that we started a long time ago and didn't put up with it, and there were a lot of people working disbanded and diminutive and up to so many in the night to find out where it was possible for the material our professionals needed, without trust and without having a passive attitude to say: "Well, it will come to us from somewhere. No, as always, Catalans, Catalans, within the system, working ramangats. Always. It is not until March 11 that the WHO declares pandemic – it is not until March 11 that the WHO declares pandemic. We had already asked that day to lower the rhythm of the country – I remember perfectly making this movement, to lower the rhythm of the country – and also to advance in the phases of the Pla d'emergências that we had already approved, that we had already anticipated, that we had already approved, passing to the phase of alert, and also, unfortunately, to the Conca d'Odena, so he brought us to the phase of emergence. The sole command of the State is not a solution, it was not at that time; it did not follow a good reception, although we, as we have always explained, have always worked with the maximum collaboration, with the highest coordination, and putting forward the citizenship of our country. The Spanish Government decrees the state of alarm, which applies from March 15th, but does not decree the confinement that we were asking for – does not decree the confinement that we were asking for – when in other parts of the State there was a much higher incidence than we were here and when, moreover, we had a relationship of mobility that was powerful with other areas with high incidence, as the Madrid Community could be. No, the only command is never the solution, ever. We have always tried, since the Government of Catalonia, that this crisis is managed with the sector, accompanied with society. There is no other way: decentralisation, bringing decisions where they are to be taken, giving confidence, giving tools to those to make decisions on the spot. And that's what we found with many difficulties: a virus that fleshed out and made stars in the great people. That's why we set a priority from a good principle: to protect vulnerable communities as the great people are. March 6th – the president said – we have the first person dead in the country, and since the Department of Health and the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families already make a recommendation not to visit the residences, obviously, and that people with symptoms are protected and stay home. We regulate the number of visits, ask that a register be made, and we extend the hygiene and information measures. After that, we obviously ended up restricting and forbidding, but we tried to act from the very first moment. But, above all, in this balance we have to keep learning. Learnings: the first of them, the measures that we notice from the first day, as are the hygienic measures of the control of any epidemic that we can take; hygienic measures, rent your hands, we knew it. They are simple measures; we need to know how to pass on to the whole society, we need to internalize them in our way of life. Hygiene of hands, physical distance, that does not mean not being able to share or be able to be with the people, but certainly with measures and with some caution. And obviously, when we had to act with measures like confinement... they're drastic measures that we wouldn't want to do again, but they were effective, and that's how it turned out. We were going to get this crow that was carrying us to a maximum, maximum tensile strength in our system of salvation. Because we're in a globalized world that makes the situation complex at the other end of the world come here and it's a first-class problem here. We're in a connected world and we'll never stop being connected from now on. That's why when the pandemics came to stay true, and we need to be well prepared in this and without, with the utmost respect, but without. We must have an industrial fabric prepared not to depend entirely on imports of sanitary and technological materials. That is why our country's clear bet to incorporate innovation, to innovate from our own centres, is clearly a country bet. Social and health integration is essential. We've known each other for many years, but the crisis is waiting for us in the hills. We're stepping up the social service, that's the key. When we speak of salvation, we speak of the social pot, of those determinants of salvation, which are also clearly seen in an epidemic, we must reinforce them. Some welfare policies that reinforce, first and foremost, social policies. We are strengthening social policies as well as strengthening health care, as we have done for the residents. Between May 1 and 15 we were able to make more than 300,000 visits to the residences and at the peak there have been more than eight hundred professional equivalents of medicine and infirmary. We will have to structure this, we will structure it with five hundred professionals of primary care to the residences so that we can also strengthen this attention. And this virus, which doesn't affect everyone alike, and this doesn't affect everyone alike, doesn't just have a biological or age component – which we haven't talked about very much – but it has a clearly social component. The women have become more infected. And I also find myself saying that the women have been on top of it in a very intense way. They are the majority of health professionals, the majority of professionals who care for our great people. They are the majority of supermarket caskets, which have not been able to rest and which are also essential services. The women were mostly, they were in front of this pandemic as well, and this happened, it ended up having an impact. We have seen that women have become more infected, but we have also seen that the individual socioeconomic level has an affect with more infection and also more mortality. And that's it. With everything that happens to Greeting, but also when there is an epidemic, you see clearly, and these facts have to be said – they have to be said. If we want a strong welfare state, we have to bet to reduce inequalities, we have to bet for a much more just social system. And this is a very clear bet that I believe this Parliament must agree. And more so, reducing social inequalities we made progress in the country, also in economic progress. Therefore, it is not absolutely counterposed to anything; all the contrary, is what will make us progress. The relevancy of mental health: we were able to promote the Platform of Action for emotional support and the extreme acute to the citizenry and the Platform of emotional support, concretely to health professionals; also presenting tools now, together, for example, with the Department of Culture, specific tools for the professionals. They have lived with a very great emotional stress, beyond their professionally appropriate stress, with a very great emotional stress, and I think we have to do everything possible because they can carry these months in the best way possible. Also face to face the whole citizenry with the web app emotional greeting..., Emotional Management. cat, with 275,000 users who have used the app. And another challenge that we have, another very great learning, which is the use of technologies in attention and communication; it has benefited both the health system and social. The e-consult we have of primary care has continued to pay attention in a spectacular way, growing and being at one hundred_percent of professionals. The ninety ultrasounds that we were able to put in the primary, as the advance of that Pla of better resolution of the primary that we had already designed. We're going to be able to move forward with everything, as many as we have in order to be able to make the detection of cases; the distribution of taulets and smartphones in residences to be able to accompany those people with their family members; the virtual accreditation to My Greeting, which only between March 16th and April 22nd has multiplied by three, and which is a very easy tool, accessible from our own salvation, is our data, and we can hold them on a very easy tool; and we also speed up all the planned plans, and manage our equipments with a reversal of 28... a, 81_million euros, excuse us. And proximity as a key factor in the decision-making process, as I said before, decentralized, lying down the decisions where you have to take it. This is a great learning from this crisis, this epidemic. We have to strengthen centralization, as it seems they want to be issued as the conclusion of the Reconstruction Commission of the Congress of Deputies? No, never. We must strengthen the tools that are useful to the people. Collaboration with the local and supra-municipal world has been constant, and without this collaboration to find space, without this collaboration to strengthen the same health and social system, we do not get out the same way. We have communicated, we have understood, we have done absolutely tricks from all health regions, with different advisors, to explain the updates, to explain what we faced, to collect their concerns and their doubts, and, therefore, power, between all, therefore, to pull forward with this epidemic. And the importance of health research, which we have already specifically allocated on April 7th, EUR 4_million, to a number of research projects that are, therefore, helping us to sort, selected with the support of international experts. And I also want to say, because yesterday we did Biocat's patronage, like the whole research network, the biotech network in Catalonia, has worked harder than ever before, and they said, "It's a learning we want to stay. More than ever have different research groups worked together, which normally competed and looked at each other, they were able to work together, they gave their hands, so, because the needs prevail, but more than that, they have seen that it is beneficial for everyone, and therefore this is a learning that will have come to stay. And a system that not only heals, but takes care of, for the follow-up protocol to the end-of-life process, improving communication between families, patients and professionals with the distribution of electronic devices is essential. In front of a virus that's buried, in front of a virus that doesn't let you accompany the dear people, that doesn't let you do it so essential that you would humanly do it when someone you think is sick, that it's accompanying you, being at their side, we had to put in the essentials to fill, right? This lack, and when it was possible to manage this follow-up well, too. Public greetings, important chapter. Despite the flood of the effects of the pandemic, it has told us to build the public salvation of the 21st century. Pandemics have come to stay, and this means that these 21st-century tools, with these large volumes and connections that we will have in our world, we need to have information systems, not only to strengthen the plants, we have done it with a two-year structural program to be able to incorporate 108 professionals, but also to change work methodologies, incorporate new technologies, and improve the information systems, and all this in a structural way. This also came to stay. And we prepare ourselves, we prepare for this immediate future, but we prepare ourselves, above all, with these learnings to be able to cope with what you see. We prepare ourselves in the material, given that it was a weakness, a difficulty that we had, a difficulty that we found ourselves, not only ourselves, but at world level. We prepare ourselves with a stock of four-monthly available material, we calculate about 3.8 million units of medium that we have been able to spend, we have been able to consume in the most complicated weeks of the epidemic, and therefore this leads us to end up with a total volume of material for thirty weeks of approximately 62 million, and that we now have available material for four-monthly purchases that are near this very late. Maintain the availability of structures and health and social circuits prepared for if there is a new rebound, and this means structuralizing or maintaining the capacity of installed critical beds increasing it to a 30_per_cent, approximately 150 more beds that will always be installed and that will remain structurally. Strengthening mental salvation also structurally. And take advantage of this boost of the new technologies to accelerate the need for already identified changes. We complement the form of face-to-face attention with other forms of attention that allow us to reach much more, and we will also accelerate the Strategic Technology Renewal Plan, which we had already planned with a biennial 2020-2023 plan with 150_million euros, so the acceleration that I look forward to doing also in these own months if all the buds that can come if you see an on-line _second. Recovery also from activity, by the end of 2020 we can get to have 76,000 female interventions less than 2019, this means a lot of work to recover this activity, which is not done in two months, obviously, which also involves a reprogramming, which involves an organization of our health centers to reprogram, and according, obviously, to the clinical criteria. The re-opening of CAPs, as well as the preparation of contingency plans when we have to withdraw professional to attend to a possible follow-up of Covid. Because continuing to strengthen primary care is essential. We have already said to presuppositions 2020 that already envisaged for primary care 1,568,9_million euros, a 21.7_percent of the presupposition of provision of health services. We have already incorporated the Better Equipment and Resolution Plan with these 30_million euros in three years, which we have had to move forward and which we have done intensively with the example that we have given before the scanners, with the plan intended to support the primary attention of this summer, which is already 7.7_million euros, it is 5_million euros more than we expected, which was 2.7_million euros in this summer plan, because we would not only strengthen the coastal areas, but also those that have more housing pressure. This means, in three months, these 436 professional equivalents. And the rest, up to 20_million euros that will have a continuity; we do not want to do one thing for three_months of the summer, but to maintain a continuity, because the winter plan will come to us, which will be exceptional at all levels, will be a season of grip where much of the cases will be, from the start, suspended by Covid. This means, from the outset, that we already foresee 230,000 more cows that can be bought, advance the vaccination of the influenza as soon as possible, when we already have the cows available and we have them here. And, obviously, these campaigns to strengthen vaccination in those vulnerable people over sixty years of age, also in health professionals and also, therefore, in pregnant women, to be able to reach the index recommended by the WHO, which is this 75_percent vaccination. That would be a spectacular change: in health professionals we don't even get to 30, it's very low. Let's wait this year, with this awareness that you'll probably be able to reconcile, so, this Covid with the epidemic of the flu, keep this campaign strong, intense, also in the face of health professionals. And we can't relax our attention to residences. We are still very intense – very intense – in preventive activities for the vulnerable, clinically and socially vulnerable population, the two friends. The objectives are two: we must not resort, if we can, to a total, general confinement of the whole population, as we have done in a drastic way, that the country has to endure, we must not arrive at this point, therefore, prepare ourselves in all possible places to do that necessary, but that it is not, if we can, in general, that the whole country is equal, and not end up affecting the tension in the health system, and therefore containing the epidemic as much as possible. And for that we need all of society, we need all of us. This, these are our main objectives, where the primary attention has ahead of us a giant organizational challenge, and we must accompany it with the necessary resources. And all this, as I said, with the shared responsibility of all the citizens. That's why we'll make a lot of effort to try to explain at all times where we are, because everyone understands that the efforts that are required, so they have a sense of solidarity and a sense of solidarity between everyone. The course of follow-up of cases and contacts, clear, robust, that I act in coordination with all the agents of the system, and so, also, increase a 10, 20_percent of available places of sociosanitari from September 1st. It is not known that we have buds, that we will continue to have buds, and that this is happening to all countries; that it is very likely an on-line second, that it is very likely also that a on-line second can coincide with an epidemic that we have annually and that causes also stars, that it is the epidemic of the flu. And, therefore, continue to insist a lot on the messages that this hand hygiene, this distance, these masks, also help us with the influenza epidemic, and, above all, help us to control this epidemic. It is not all that is done, it is not all that can be done only from the health system or from the social system; we need the cooperation of all citizens. And, as they have shown so far, I am not convinced, I have full confidence that it will continue to be and will be. That is why, in the medium and long term, we will continue to strengthen public health in our country. It's those policies that always stick around when things go wrong. When the receptions of the outflows of the crises impose austerity on us, there are always pockets of these policies, which see that they are really uplifting to get out and to pull forward and reduce inequalities, and to confront a country where the system of salvation is essential and salvation, the right to salvation, is guaranteed for everyone. We push and promote the productive capacity that helps us, too, in the system of salvation, in the marc, right? , material supply plans, healthcare technology, that we will do through Coreco. We also reformulate the formation of health professions; we are facing a system of health of the future that needs professionals, also different – different – and that is why we have worked together with the university system to make it possible. Let us incorporate into the agenda of the policies of salvation the questions of global salvation – this is also a very clear bet – and above all we bet on community salvation, community salvation that reduces inequalities and that makes it very clear that the aging of the people we have in a country like ours we must not take care of; if we want to be a just society, we must take care of our great people. For this reason, strengthen social care, strengthen this social attention, promote people's autonomy and, at times, prevent health care from responding to social needs. I think this is important to frame it well: when we talk about social and health integration, I mean that the answer to social needs is not health care, it is working together, it is integrating and it is strengthening social policies very much. But let me finish – and I know I'm very Estonian – let me finish with a very important aspect – the President said, Councillor Buch said it and I want to talk about it: I feel proud, proud of the health system of our country, a system that generates a volume of activity of €31,000_million. Many times we look at what he stands for in the Generality's presupposition, in part, don't we? , which is a matter of "expenditure". And I always say, "Let's talk about reversal, that's investing in salvation. But it is that the sector itself generates a volume of 31,000_million euros, 223,000 people work directly in the health sector, and many of them with very qualified jobs. We are well ahead of internal research and development expenditure in biotechnology – almost 30_percent of all the Spanish state's investment – although we know that it is insufficient. We want to be a locomotive, we want the resources to be this locomotive as the health sector of our country. We have a small country but it is very powerful, a small country that has always been open to the world. The health sector has always been able to do this, it has always been open to the first, it has always had great connections with the rest of the world, with the other end of the world. Therefore, making the health and social sector a strategic sector of social cohesion is key, also, for a new model of progress, a new model of productive economy: it generates added value, creates jobs, also highly qualified, and has a strong capacity for redundancy of industrial sectors and services. The salvation sector is not just the one that needs to heal us, the one that needs to heal us, but the one that generates progress for itself. That's why I want to make a firm defense that I think will also share a large part of society. We can be a tractor of an economic and social model based on the values we want, based on this change in values that the crisis has taught us, and in order to overcome this crisis, economic, social and health care, obviously we must bet to invest in social policies and strengthen the welfare state. That is why we have proposed a great alliance of the whole sector, that you will certainly accompany us all and we will be able to accompany each other to end up with infra-financing, because it can be a great boost of our country and of the whole economy of our country, and of all the servants of our country who have remained very touched – who have remained very touched – this great alliance to end up with infra-financing, to have the resources to be able to put them in pressure and to be able to put them in initiatives that have their own country. But we will not do this alone, we will, of course, with the whole society and I trust that we will also do this with the whole Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Discussion on the reconstruction of Catalonia before the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[255-00013/12]] At the same time, the first interventions of the Government, in accordance with Rule 156.5 of the Rules of Procedure, have been completed and the next debate is the parliamentary initiative, the proposed parliamentary group will speak. It has the word, therefore, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.8.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good. We are facing a historical crisis and history will be the one to judge us. The Catalans expect us to leave this plenary with a clear and well-defined course to rebuild the lives and future of millions of Catalans. Being up to it is not an option, it is a moral obligation. We must honor with our memory the tens of thousands of people who died during this pandemic, and we all do so, but we must also honor those with our daily work and with our will to agree. We think of them and of the general interest in making decisions. It is our duty to comfort the relatives and relatives of the victims, of course, but also to avoid the pain of seeing politicians caught up in the process and in sectarianism. The old policy is no longer part of the new normality. We are probably experiencing the worst health crisis and crisis in general of the last century in Catalonia, and we will see the magnitude of the economic and social crisis that is already rising before us. As I said, this pandemic has taken the lives of thousands of people, tens of thousands of people, and behind every point of the curve, of every statistical unit, there is one victim, there is a terrible human drama. Destroyed families that took a long time to overcome a loss, to assimilate the speed with which this virus has biased the lives of their loved ones without even having been able to accompany them in their last moments, to take their hand or to fire them at a funeral as they deserved. Unfortunately, little of what we do here today will be able to repair the pain of human losses, but we do have the possibility to shed light on the way forward so that Catalonia can cope with this serious crisis in the best of conditions, alleviating the economic and social suffering that this virus also leaves us. We must be exemplary and work to bring Catalan politics up to the standards of our citizens. I cannot continue my intervention without what I believe the Catalans are waiting for today from us: a thank you and a recognition to each and every one of those who in their own way have worked to stop the spread of the virus. In recent months we have seen the worst face of this crisis, but also the best, and that has been, as always, that of the vast majority of responsible citizens, united and united as ever to defeat the common enemy. Our health workers have given us the best mirror to look at, literally left their lives and put their families at risk to save the lives of the rest. Doctors, nurses, auxiliaries, psychologists, cellists, cleaning staff, ambulance drivers, physiotherapists, pharmacists... we'll never thank you enough for what you're doing for us. I do not think of any better inspiration or greater challenge than trying to bring Catalan politics up to our health. Nor do I want to forget the State Security Forces and Bodies, the Armed Forces, in particular the EMU, which has saved so many lives, the staff also of supermarkets, farmers, farmers, fishermen, transporters, and, in the end, all the essential workers, because for something they are essential, they are essential and they are the good essence of this society. Like the self-employed, who have followed at the foot of the canyon, like the small entrepreneurs who have made sacrifices not to have to fire their employees, like the families who have had to telework at the same time that they taught their children and entertained them during this pandemic so that they did not think about going out on the street. I also think of our elders, with whom the Covid-19 is being eaten. We've lost many older people, but we can't afford to lose any more, we can't afford the mistakes that have been made during these months and we won't let this cowardly virus deal with them. A war has passed, a post-war era, they were able to embrace each other after forty years of dictatorship so that their children and grandchildren would live free today, they held their families with often low pensions during the 2008 crisis, and surely none of us here will have heard a single complaint from our elders, their capacity to accept, their humble resistance, their selfless collaboration, must inspire our political action. Our elders are the silent treasure of Catalonia and we must unite for them, for the example they give us and for the respect they have given us. For them, for our heroes, and for the people who have died it is worth continuing to fight without fading. That is why we believe that the best way to honor them is by working to provide solutions and not to embarrass the playing field. Decisions must be made to save lives and jobs at a time of deep crisis. Therefore, since Citizens we have promoted this Plenary, because it is essential that all parties present to Catalonia our proposals to face the crisis. It is essential that we give hope, certainty and confidence in the future of Catalans. And it is urgent, and in fact it has been for many weeks now. I myself proposed to this Government, in a control session, to constitute the autonomous forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia; pacts for the reconstruction that Citizens have managed to set in motion in Congress and also in many autonomous parliaments, and that however, it was not possible here, Mr Torra. But we Citizens, as a party born in Catalonia, as the first party in Catalonia, do not resign ourselves to Catalonia being the exception for evil in all of Spain, and that is why we have promoted this Monographic Plenary in view of its refusal to these pacts of reconstruction. Because if this government doesn't set in motion the reconstruction of our land, here is the first party in Catalonia to do so. And look, today should be an important day, I actually came prepared for it to be the D day of reconstruction, but I've found more of the same. Mr. Torra, it seems that the new normality does not..., I do not know, the new normality, you have entered it, but she has not entered you; we continue with more of the same, Mr. Torra. And I didn't have much hope that you would change that scratched record of the process and get to work to deal with the economic crisis that comes upon us. But yes, as I was thinking about what I wanted to explain here, I was wondering: "If we don't do it now, then when; what else has to happen in Catalonia so that you stop trying to confront us with friends, family, and this government gets to work for all Catalans; what else has to happen, if not even at a time like this you have been able to leave the process behind. So new normality, but old vices, old confrontations and the same excuses as the usual bad payer. More of the same. But it's not expected to stop being frustrating, Mr. Torra. So I ask you: if you can't change your mind, at least change the subject. Look, Citizens have been warning the Government of Spain for four months that the solution to the pandemic cannot be a double dose of propaganda. And that, then, also serves you. If they pretend that the formula for the economic reconstruction of Catalonia is more process and more victimism, they know that this is not going to work for them. Do not continue to play with your voters, promising the things you yourselves know you will not be able to fulfill. Don't keep blaming the rule of law, the laws, the courts, the pointer... you blame everyone, but you don't take on your own responsibility. Do you not realize the frustration that it causes in your own electorate every time you are promised impossible things? Do you not realize that in this flight forward separatism is leaving burnt land in the economy, with the flight of businesses in Catalonia? Even so, as far as public health is concerned, when you refused during these hard months to accept field hospitals to save lives, simply because you were riding them the Military Emergency Unit. Mr. Torra, it is that you have spent months – and today you have done it again here – complaining about the one-man command, the powers of the government, trying to pass the solidarity of all Spaniards through a political imposition that is only in their head, and talking badly and scorning those who came, like those UME professionals, here to save the lives of Catalans. That's what they came to, Mr. Torra, nothing more. But you in your head, then, have other things. I honestly don't understand it, as I didn't understand that story that you, Mr. Buch, mounted with the masks. I just can't understand it. Why do they not accept help? Why did they not want these field hospitals? You've been complaining many months about those skills you didn't have, but now you've got them. So show what you were going to do too when you had them, and stop making scarecrows and put yourself in arms, Mr. Torra, because, if you sink, all Catalans sink behind you. Look, I don't know if you remember what your spokesman, Mrs Budó, was saying: that, in an independent Catalonia, there would have been fewer deaths. Does this seem normal to you, Mr Torra, when the Generalitat has been unable even to compute well the correct number of victims, which you have caused to stagger the official statistics of the deceased throughout Spain? But, well, of course, it is true that, if we hear other voices of independence, such as the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, Mrs Budó is a moderate. Next to Mr. Canadell, Mrs. Budo is a moderate. Do you know what Mr. Canadell was saying to the heat of the pandemic? That Spain is death and I stop while Catalonia is life and future. Do you think it is normal for those citizens who feel Catalan and also feel Spanish, and feel European, to continue listening to these things and above in the midst of the pain and suffering that, of course, has also caused us this virus? Do you think it's normal, Mr. Torra? Do you share this? And not content with the pearls of your spokesman, you have also presented yourself at the Conference of Presidents, and, before those autonomous governments that were doing it better than yours during the pandemic, what did you do? Did you ask for more health protection, more economic aid for Catalonia? No, you were dedicated to asking for self-determination. You have spent the whole state of alarm protesting and kicking because you wanted more competition, when day after day you were throwing your ears at us because your government didn't know how to manage what it already had. And, look, your R+D+i strategy during this pandemic has been irresponsible, disloyalty and incapacity. And I don't think it's like walking around boasting, like you did here today from this rostrum. Now you, as I say to you, have all the competences again, and I hope that you will live up to your fantasies and that you will succeed, for the sake of all Catalans, because, look, this is neither separatists nor constitutionalists, this is going to unite forces to save lives and save jobs. And yes, we gave him our proposals, our ideas, the ideas that Citizens had. And I was also wondering these days what would have happened if instead of you in the Government of the Generalitat, what would have happened if we had ruled Citizens. What would you have done, Mr. Torra? And I want you to answer it. Where would you be and what would you be proposing right now if Citizens ruled Catalonia? And I ask you to answer me because all of Spain has already seen what its partners in Republican Esquerra have done with the Government of Spain, in the middle of the pandemic: ask for the table, the table and the table of shame; blackmail a weak government to advance on its path towards self-determination. And Mr. Rufián says that flags are not eaten, but the truth is that the reality is that Esquerra lives very well, lives very well on that process and those flags, lives and eats quite well. But ask the self-employed and the workers immersed in an ERTE if they are going to eat from that table of shame, from that table of blackmail. If by Esquerra, Junts and the CUP had been, the state of alarm would have fallen two months ago, and with him also the ERTEs and the benefits of autonomous. By the way, that Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana and the CUP have voted "no to the state of alarm with the People's Party and Vox, and against the criteria of scientists. And I don't think at this point I need to tell you that confinement has saved hundreds of thousands of lives in Spain, and that some parties have been terribly irresponsible in playing politics with the state of alarm. The reality, whether they like it or not, is that the workers who are receiving an ERTE, who receive an extraordinary benefit from self-employed people and who are going to have assistance from the Tourism Plan, are benefiting from the measures that Citizens have taken from the Government of Spain at a very difficult time for our country. And that is called ‘making politics useful. From Citizens, we have been insisting for months on the need to support the autonomous and SMEs of Catalonia. Not in vain, we are the party of the autonomous. It cost us a lot of work months ago for the Spanish Government to approve the extraordinary benefit of self-employed women. We fight alone, in the face of that abandonment, and today it is a reality. We managed to get the government to rebuild and approve it. We also dissociate him from the state of alarm, and we have pressured him to extend, for the time being, until September 30; a measure that you have also celebrated, when you have come out here to make your speech. But, of course, Mr. Torra, if it is a good measure, as you said here, how do you explain that Junts per Catalunya voted against the agreement reached by Citizens in Congress to untie these ERTs from the state of alarm? How do you explain that? Well, look, fortunately we were there, to give stability, to be useful and to save lives. Look, we must recreate the economy also from other areas, through tourism, for example, an economic engine for Catalonia that supports millions of families. For example, in addition to these commitments that I have already explained to you that we have taken the Government of Spain from Congress, we have also obtained 4,200_million_de_euros for Spanish tourism. No more or less. And here, we, for example, have proposed exemption from the tourist rate for 2020 and also for 2021, because we need to relieve both those tourist establishments and those tourists, consumers who want to come here, to Catalonia. And, by the way, speaking of tourism, since I have Mrs. Budó here, if I may, I will give you a piece of advice: do not engage in insulting the Spaniards at the same press conference in which you are encouraging the tourists from Spain to come here to Catalonia. Don't you see that's not a good strategy, Mrs. Budó? Don't you see it? Honestly... Look, in the industrial sphere, we're not better either. And, of course, at this point, we need to talk about Nissan's closure. In this case, in case we had little with the process and the Covid, we have also encountered populism. We've heard everything about Nissan, haven't we? , from asking for the nationalization of the company, as did Esquerra Republicana, to calling a boycott against Nissan itself, as well as Renault and Mitsubishi. I mean, two companies that haven't announced yet that they're going to shut down any plants. And I wish you'd never have to do that. But, of course, if that were to happen, if that closure were to occur, would the populists of Podemos, the lords of the commons, Mrs Colau, assume any responsibility to point out to these companies? Because at this stage the question is not how many companies are going to leave Catalonia, but who is going to want to come and invest here in Catalonia. If you are threatening even businesses with those boycotts! I ask you not to wait for the drop to come to fill the glass. Look, Oxfam Intermón in his report« A fair and necessary reconstruction is possible warns that Catalonia is one of the autonomous communities that record a greater percentage increase in poverty. According to this NGO, the pandemic is going to leave 93,000 more people in poverty, only in Catalonia, which is a 9_per_cent more than before the arrival of the coronavirus. Gentlemen of the Government, with this human drama on the table, do you intend to give up your independence once and for all? Will they reach out to the opposition? Are you going to ask us all to change things or are you going to keep coming here to talk about your book as you've been doing until then? Because so far you have been heard more by your criticisms of the Spanish Government than by effective measures coming out of your own councils. I don't know if people know exactly what happened here, because you've told us a little story today... I don't know, a little modified reality, Mr. Torra. Do you know that Mr. Torra, after refusing to accept these field hospitals to save the lives of Catalans, simply because they were mounted by the UME or the Civil Guard, ordered the purchase of twenty-seven inflatable field hospitals that cost between twenty-thousand and thirty-thousand euros each? , which today, moreover, experts, specialists who are within the official bodies, do not even know what they are for. Why are you spending that money when you had that help at your fingertips and rejected it, were you allowed the luxury of rejecting it? Do you know that, between duplicity, high - office salaries, expert committees, various chiringuites, such as those so - called embassies, we are leaving 900_million_euros that would help alleviate the crisis? Because you talked here today about Spain, about what you take away from us, I don't know what... What about you? Why not cut? Why don't we save those 900_million_euros and use them in what is really important? Do you know that in the midst of this terrible pandemic the separatists have used to raise the salary to the former presidents, uh, as if some of them had paid little, which also some have already secured their good revolving door? Let's move on. Look, Mr. Puigdemont, the illustrious fugitive, shared a tweet from Mrs. Ponsati about the deaths in Madrid that I dare not reproduce, because it was a cruel mockery, inconceivable taste, when we were suffering the most, Mr. Torra. I know you're not interested. I understand that these things... I hope they embarrass you, because that's what I should give you, shame, that tweet from Mrs. Ponsati mocking what was going on in Madrid, when it was worse, with families suffering from losing their loved ones. I hope you're at least ashamed of yourself. Look, let's not say that just a few days ago, you yourself, Mr Torra, and also here, you did it in parliamentary office, because, again, your occurrence last fall to hold another referendum, I imagine illegal, of course, in Catalonia, which must already be the referendum of the referendum. That you seem to have even lost your respect to your own account. I don't know what the process will be that every time you see cornered men go up, double the bet, but we always lose the Catalans. When you double the bet, you always lose Catalans. Haven't we had enough division in Catalan society with that last illegal referendum, Mr. Torra? Can't they park, I insist, their breakup plans for once – for once – and put us to work together? Look, if it's important to keep your head cold right now, it's also more important to keep your conscience calm. And I think you should think about how history will remember your management of this crisis. And here, things, let's face it, they haven't done well. And I was telling you before: the story you've done here today is a long way from what really happened. I want to recall an emergency meeting in the Palau de la Generalitat, which you summoned us to, where they then assured – I think it was March 10 – that the traceability of the cases was assured, when we were all already seeing with great concern what was happening in Italy or what was already happening in Madrid, here next door. And you say: "I went out on the 13th to ask for total confinement. Yes, you went out on the 13th to ask for confinement, but it's just the day before your health counselor said that children could go quietly to play in the parks. You haven't done things right, Mr. Torra, and you can't come here to get your chest out of that management. And the problem is, they're trying to follow the same path. And look, it wasn't easy, and I admit it, it wasn't an easy situation, because no one was prepared for a situation like this, and besides, circumstances have overcome governments all over the world, but what I'm asking you to do is not to remake history and not to tell here something that didn't happen, because we all have memory. More examples of the mismanagement that you have done, such as the Ferrovial scandal. We have seen how you made an opaque contract for a service that is also essential to deal with this crisis, as is the tracking of positive contacts by Covid-19. When the scandal broke out, then they decided to back off. But who has to pay for those consequences? Who's going to have to compensate this private company? The Catalans again. Did you feel good about it? Did you think it was right to spend EUR 18 million on a private company instead of relying on our primary care? Mr. Torra, did this seem good to you? How dare they squander the money that the Catalans have so much effort to spend? That money, gentlemen of the government, is sacred. But it's just... more examples, more examples of things you've done wrong. You said here today: "If we had the skills, we would have done this, we would have done it, we would have done it... But do you know what happens? What we have seen what they have done, for example, the 061. The 061: While people were calling that phone and were anxiously waiting for you to answer, you were charging them for those calls. Is that what you want to do with the skills? Is that why they demand competence? We had to be the ones to unravel this shame of 061. And then they said, "No, it will be free, when we had already had weeks of pandemic. It's just embarrassing. We can also talk, for example, about the budgets of Mr Aragonès, who, instead of thinking about the general interests of Catalonia, you prefer to think about the electoral interests of Esquerra Republicana, and then, with the populist recipes of the commons, he carried out these budgets, accounts of those who ask to nationalize Nissan and of those who ask the company to boycott it. Come on, anyone would buy a used car from such partners, honestly. Look, we, from Citizens, told them as active and passive that these budgets were not useful in dealing with this crisis of the Covid-19, they were not useful. But you wanted to approve budgets, whatever they were, and at any price. Well, today, we already know that price: months lost to deal with the pandemic from the government's councils with economic and social policies that took into account the reality of the social emergency. And it is that separatism is expert in wasting money from Catalans, but the way in which they spend time and legislatures is that it's court-martial. Look, if the pandemic has changed the lifestyle of virtually half the world, how could it not also change the accounts of the Republican Left and the commons? It's just that it was common sense, Mr. Aragonès. And I remember talking to you and warning you, and you're wrong to go ahead with those accounts. But let's be serious, please. We're getting late for reconstruction and we can't waste time in this way. And so far you have been tumbling without counting on the opposition. And look, we've made it easy for him to make deals. But you didn't want to. And this is the difference between those who believe in the union of people, we believe in the sum, we believe that that sum of forces is the positive, and those who live to separate, divide and face. So let's be responsible, please. We must once and for all overcome that pathological tendency of old ideologies and even older nationalisms to seek a solution to problems in the confrontation between citizens. Look, if we say that the virus has no ideology, and I think it is one of the phrases we have heard here today, in these speeches of the Government, if the virus has no ideology, why do the solutions have to have ideology? It just doesn't make any sense. I mean, we still don't know if the heat kills the virus, but what I'm sure of is independence doesn't kill the virus. That's what we're sure of. So let's be serious, let's be responsible, let's put aside the discrepancies, let's put aside the baton, which do not stop repeating the, please; it's not the time – it's not the time. You alone, Mr Torra, will not be able to cope with this crisis, neither you alone nor with your referendum or with those proposals that go nowhere. And you don't want to count on anyone – you don't want to count on anyone – and you've shown it here; we haven't been able to carry out those reconstruction pacts. But we are not going to leave the Catalans at the feet of the process and of the crisis, because the future of the Catalans is unfortunately linked to their decisions, Mr Torra, and we cannot, in Citizens, disagree with us about the future of the Catalans, however much you want to go alone, however much you do not take into account the opposition or think that this will be resolved with a double dose of processing. So, when we get to this point, the opposition parties have two options: either look at the past and set us up in sterile fights, or look at the future and put solutions on the table. Catalans will always find Citizens in this second option, in the choice of solutions, of the future, accompanying every criticism of a proposal, on the right side of history, as we have already shown during these months. We are very proud to always put forward – as our president, Inés Arrimadas, also says in Congress – the interests of the country to those of our party, to understand that Citizens is not an end in themselves, but a firm pillar and a useful tool to build a better Spain. You may have a very great ego, and today it has become clear here, but this is neither yours nor yours to hold hands with the Government of the Generalitat; this is to hold hands with the Catalans. And that's why we have to be together. And only in this way will we be able to contribute effectively to saving lives and saving jobs. We have presented to this Government our proposals in the political, health, economic and social fields to deal with the pandemic, proposals to safeguard the public health of the citizens of Catalonia while reactivating the economy after the crisis. There are many strategic sectors for Catalonia with which we have met all these months: Foment del Treball, Pimec, Rectors of Catalan universities, Save the Children, Unicef, autonomous organizations, the pharmaceutical, tourism, cultural, agricultural, sports, dependency... I will not follow because it is a huge list. There are more than one hundred and forty entities with which we have met, because from Citizens we are very clear that we cannot govern without listening to people, without taking into account their demands. In short, without considering the real Catalonia. And that's why we've also met with you, to talk to you about that real Catalonia that you refuse to look forward to, because Citizens flock and park ideological differences when it comes to saving lives and jobs and watching over the interests of all Catalonia. Saving lives and jobs is our priority. And that's why we jumped. And we have no problem saying that. And we have offered ourselves on many occasions, and we do so for those who think like us and for those who do not, for the independenceists and for those who feel Catalan and Spanish like us, because you cannot govern or make politics only for yours, as you do, for example, when you go to that Conference of Presidents, where you will only talk about your book, no matter what else you do. Look, citizens' priority is to work for reconstruction, and that is why we have offered batteries of measures and proposed, as I have already said, this autonomous forum for the reconstruction of Catalonia. We also launched the Reconstruction Commission, but you were still with the auto-electoral pilot, looking back at each other. What I am asking you to do is to use this plenary to promote realistic measures in the health, economic and social fields. And that is what we need now, solutions with consensus to move forward, involving all the parties here that represent the Catalans and giving voice to those who have suffered the most in this pandemic. We are at a very delicate moment of descalation; we are already waiting for those bursts that we are having, controlled bursts, that is, but we have to be very careful, and that is why one of the proposals that we are going to put forward in this plenary, among many others that we will be explaining throughout the interventions, is to push forward a contingency plan in the face of possible bursts so that the Catalans as a whole can be prepared in the event of a second wave of this pandemic that has ended with so many lives, unfortunately. This contingency plan includes a wide range of measures on such fundamental issues as, for example, health and social care, through the production of rapid tests to increase prevention; the increase in hospital supplies has already been discussed here in this forum; the protection of the elderly, the most vulnerable families and groups; conciliation; the protection also of victims of macho violence, who have suffered a great deal during these weeks and I believe that no Catalan can stand in the way of this difficult time. So, therefore, we want to put this contingency plan in place and we look forward to the support of all groups so that it can be pushed forward. As I was saying, I do not think it is time to lower the guard or the time for you to have the swords up; it is time to think of the Catalans, of all the Catalans, and I hope, please, that you do not even think for a moment of using this crisis as a curtain to cover your tricks. When you want to divide Catalan society by feeding nationalist suspicions, spreading lies about the rest of the Spaniards or skipping laws, you know that there will be Citizens there to defend the coexistence, freedom and equality of Catalans, because we defend the dignity of those whom you have been trying to snatch for years. While you are fighting for independence votes, real Catalonia expects solutions to this crisis. And we want to remain also during the reconstruction the representatives of that Catalonia, of all Catalonia, of those who think like us and of those who do not. Because the future is not written and Catalonia cannot resign itself to the process as if it had some kind of curse on it. There is a constitutionalist and inclusive alternative for all Catalans, and we will leave our skin on it, that no one has any doubts. Look, Mr. Torra, I understand that you don't like it and that you displace the position of Citizens, because you, of course, have to sell your story of confrontation and destructive opposition. But you know what? , that we in Citizens, as I have already told you, put the interest of Catalans above anything else, and neither you nor anyone will get Citizens to go from where they have to be, which is in the political and moderate center, and which defends equality and freedom in the face of exclusionary separatism. We have and must rebuild Catalonia and, moreover, we also have to close the fracture that you have been creating for so long. We have been denouncing it for many years and telling them, already, that, if we divide, the intolerants win, but that together we are stronger. And that's what we have to do with this crisis: go together, Mr. Torra. It's not going to be an easy task, I know, but the Catalans need us; they have fulfilled their part of the deal and expect us to live up to it. Let us rebuild the future, restore hope for Catalonia and get started. I hope that this time they know how to live up to the circumstances for the good of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. The suspension of the session is then scheduled for 15 minutes prior to the intervention of the parliamentary groups. Therefore, the session is suspended for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.10.0	Well, after the break, let's resume the session. Continue the debate with the interventions of representatives of parliamentary groups and sub-groups to set their positions, for a maximum of thirty minutes the groups and fifteen minutes the sub-groups. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.11.0	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Lorena Roldán has already explained the reasons why Ciutadans pushed this plenary, and, like her, on behalf of my group and my party, I also want to start by giving condolences to all Catalans who have lost a loved one during this pandemic, to all those who have suffered without being able to communicate with their sick relatives, some of whom have died alone in a hospital, in a residence, in their home, without being able to take the hand of a family member when the time came. I also want to sympathize with the sick, who have suffered cruelly with a disease that in some cases has had an extremely difficult healing process, with suffering, with uncertainty and fear that this disease will definitely take them away from their loved ones. I would also like to thank, from my institutional responsibility, all the Catalans who have been civic and responsible and who have observed the measures of confinement and, when they have gone out on the street, the measures of distance and of safety and hygiene. The collective responsibility of citizens has undoubtedly been able to mitigate the worst effects of the pandemic. And, finally, also, in the chapter of thanks, we cannot forget the health professionals, who with real professionalism and heroism have cared for us despite the risk they took in the face of an unknown disease that has cost even the lives of some of them, and despite the fact that they did not always have the necessary means of protection; nevertheless, they did not fail to carry out their work. Nor do I want to forget the rest of the professionals in the hospitals: the cleaning staff, the fencers, the services... All of them our thanks, as for all the staff of the supermarkets, food stores, the transport sector, the primary sector, the workers of the countryside and the sea, the workers of infrastructure and communications... The combined effort of all of them has saved the lives of many of us, because, while the rest of society was observing the containment measures, they managed that the essential basic needs of our society would continue to be covered. Recently, we have learned that the Government of the Generalitat has decided to do an act of tribute and mourning to the victims of the Covid. Our institutions must do so, society must properly fire those who could not be fired at a funeral by their relatives or loved ones or friends. That..., I asked you yesterday publicly something that I want to reiterate today, looking into the eyes of Mr. Torra and the members of the Government who are present: please do not tarnish the dignity and solemnity of a tribute that must be for all Catalans and that all Catalans must feel represented, with speeches or with symbols that do not cover all Catalans, think how they think. Make us feel comfortable in this institutional tribute that is absolutely neutral in speeches and symbols. Having said that, it was now necessary to refer to all our fellow citizens in solidarity, giving thanks and paying tribute to them, and to go on to talk about what is another great collective effort, which is that of reconstruction. We must start a new stage in Catalonia, despite the difficult health and economic horizon that we have between us. Many countries of the world are now at the height of the pandemic; so it is in the United States, Russia, Brazil... WHO has warned that there may be a serious surge in the pandemic in the fall, similar to the flu of 1918, which caused a great wave of deaths. In Spain we have – we have known it today – already a 8.8 percent more contagion since the end of the confinement was decreed. That, as far as health prospects are concerned. As for the economic horizon, we know the difficult forecasts of the International Monetary Fund for the Spanish economy, which has a negative impact as the worst of the countries of Europe, together with Italy. We live in 2018 a very deep crisis..., sorry, in 2008, 2007-2008, the brick crisis, along with the financial crisis. And there our structures trembled in order to be able to assist so many affected by that crisis, which was not so global, because it focused on the speculation of the brick of Spain and on the financial crises that we were also infected with from the United States, but it was not so global in terms of the sectors affected, nor in terms of the countries it affected. And this time we will experience an economic crisis with an unprecedented reach in the global and global aspect. So let's see now and we are seeing the first effects of this crisis on our economy. Many establishments that closed in March have not seen them open now, when the confinement is over. Many have not been able to cope, many small entrepreneurs, many self-employed, trade, catering, hotels, coach transport, industry, service companies have suffered a severe blow, and the effects will last months or years. Many people will lose their jobs and lose their wages, and those who were already most vulnerable will be even more vulnerable. Let's go for the 10_million contagion and half a million deaths in the world. And, gentlemen of the Government, in this dramatic context, when I ask you how is the gathering of protective equipment, of breathers, the support that we can give from the Generalitat to companies and families in the face of a possible resurgence of Covid in the autumn, I would not want you to tell me if you are already summoned to the Bureau of Shame to talk opaquely about what interests a part of Catalans, or if we are going to go to an election for the conveniences of hegemony in the independence space between the partners of government, or that it is Madrid's fault. If I ask you about the pandemic, I hope you will answer me in the coming months that the health technicians, that the councillor of Afers Socials, that the company councillor have already prepared a contingency for the rebound. That is what I would like to hear from the Government, from my Government of the Generalitat. And, look, I am not going to delve into the criticisms that we legitimately can and must make of you in parliamentary office and that, in fact, has already expressed to you in much of them, some of them, our spokesman, Lorraine Roldán. But we are going to tell you that we find that the economic management that you have deployed, after the awareness that we came to an economic crisis such as that which has come, has been absolutely paralysed. They have not made a single reallocation of public resources. They approved the accounts for this year, when they already knew that they had remained on wet paper, and Mr. Aragonès has not issued a decree to correct the situation. They have continued to compete with each other for an independent electorate. And I think, how are you going to go together with the rest of the games, if you're competing among yourselves and making a fool of yourself? We have detected erratic policies in health and education, lack of transparency, of explanations, of permeability to many proposals we made from opposition, mismanagement, mistakes, improvisation... They have created insecurity all over the world. The distribution of protective equipment and respirators, there were moments that was between null and disastrous. But you, of everything that..., often make mistakes, because whoever rules, logically, some mistake always makes; you, of all the mistakes, of all the bad things, have blamed Madrid, that what has not worked is Madrid. They have kept saying that if they had been independent they would have had fewer deaths and have come to prevent the army from disinfecting residences or setting up field hospitals, as my colleague Lorraine Roldán reminded them. And it is gracious to me, when we speak to you about these things, you smile as if you said: "There are already those of Ciutadans with those of the army. For it does not grace us, because it seems to us that avoiding that between the army is a sign of contempt for those who suffer, for pure foolishness and fanaticism in the nationalism that some of you have, unfortunately. The worst is that the future in your hands presents itself more or less with the same problems. And in spite of everything we have reached out to them, we have met in a few days with more than one hundred and forty representative entities and bodies that had to tell us what their problems were during the pandemic and have tried to transfer to you their requests, the requests of these bodies and of these entities, and our proposals to mitigate the damage of the health, social and economic crisis. The weight of tourism in the Catalan economy, which, as we know, represents 12_per_cent of GDP, and which we have very much touched this year's campaign, is one of the economic problems that we are going to face in Catalonia. In a sector that pulls so much from the economy, today we were told that only thirty-seven hotels in Barcelona are open and that we are only 10_per_cent of the normal occupation of a summer start. We have relocation of the industry – the Nissan case –, the bankruptcy of the companies triples, we lost that time to which I referred earlier with the outdated budgets of 2020, and now, by 2021, we would need accounts for Catalonia whatever they are – as we say in Congress to Mr Sánchez – moderate, pragmatic, useful accounts to get the citizens out of the crisis. We are going to sit down to get some 2021 budgets that are good for Catalans. But I also tell you: we don't trust you. You have to make an effort, and this time we are going to ask you for unequivocal gestures to make these budgets with consensus. You have to make the effort and close the faucet to many chiringuitos that beat the Catalan economy. You've got to cut your buddies' unwarranted wages. Mr Aragonès, who is not here today, has to put the scissors in the department of his party partner, Mr Solé, that of the embassies, that of the supposed transparency and that it is absolute opacity, even required by the Bureau of this Parliament to tell them what the money is spent on those embassies, and they do not give us the data; and that was yesterday, that for the first time the Bureau of the Parliament saw itself in the need to make this warning to the Government. We want Mr Aragonès to cut off these superfluous, purely procedural items and dedicate them to the destination that the Catalans deserve: to the fight against the crisis of the Covid. They don't hand over so much money to the Presidency to feed the propaganda apparatus that are TV3 and Catalunya Radio. Take something off, make the gesture. Quit, cut off the hundreds of millions of the most expensive television in Spain. And, by the way, to the lords of the Socialist Party, reconstruction is not achieved by imitating the bad habits of the separatists, because what they are doing with Spanish Television in Catalonia is a shame and has no name. And I told Mr. Aragonès to also take money from Mr. Puigneró, who is this gentleman who is believed to be Catalan and Santa Teresa de Jesus as well, and who supports that entity of the Institut Nova Història, who makes that story fiction so funny sometimes, but so painful that there are advisors who support it, and who has the illusion of creating a digital republic and who has an absolutely pharaonic department in the dispositions of economic resources that he has. Also cut off from Mr. Puignero's advice with his digital republic. Make gestures – make gestures – propose our things in these budgets of 2021, that we will be receptive. Cut through the process, invest in health, education, invest in the fight against the Covid. Look, we will bring to this plenary many proposals to address the crisis: we will bring health measures to boost the health system, ensuring that the centres have sufficient storage in the event of a relapse, relying on primary care to assist in the detection of community cases; a social emergency plan by the Covid-19; a special support fund for families affected by the crisis. I am not going to extend because we will develop all this and we will see it in the transactions and in the discussions that we have between the groups. What is going to happen to the young people of Catalonia? We must assess the short- and medium-term consequences for young Catalans of the Covid-19 crisis. Today we also read news that the crisis of the Covid has affected more than anyone under the age of thirty-five and women. We can't risk this crisis being gender too, we can't risk another lost generation, gentlemen of the Government, as happened with the 2008 crisis. Education measures; in order to protect children and young people, another area of special concern to us is education. We have seen Mr Bargalló very triumphalist on the front wheel yesterday, but we think he has no reason to be. He did not manage to agree with all the agents, school directors, teachers to open the school before the end of the course, and now we think he has to work to ensure that the school year is started with guarantees and on equal terms for all students. We're going to introduce measures to make the return to school safe. For us, this plenary should open a new stage in Catalan politics and have a high eye to defeat the pandemic. We, from politics, cannot be impervious to such social, economic and health uncertainty, and it is our duty to work and do everything possible to overcome the pandemic and its effects. We're only going to get it with generosity and height of sight. Look, I, who belong to the old people in Ciutadans, always remember that our first election poster was the one that carried Albert Rivera naked and with a slogan: "We only care about people; we don't care where you were born, we don't care about the language you speak, we don't care what clothes you wear, we care about you. We said: "We care about people, we don't care about territories. And throughout our political action we have asked the successive governments of the Generalitat to govern for all Catalans, to solve their problems. Because in the queue of unemployment, we've told you a thousand times, you can't tell who is independent and who isn't, and what we have to do is get people out of that queue of unemployment. Problems with access to housing affect all our young people, think like they think, waiting lists affect all of us, dependence affects all of us, and the pandemic has also affected all of us. Yesterday we said that this plenary has to mark that new stage that told them a moment ago in Catalan politics, a stage in which the Government of the Generalitat alters its priorities for the first time. Ciutadans wants it and I think the Catalans want it. We do not want to hear you more mantras, we do not want you to divide us, we do not want to hear what Mr Torra said: "I did not come here to manage an autonomy. Well, yes, Mr. Torra, you came here to manage an autonomy, no matter what. And since Arthur Mas came out in that campaign, fleeing precisely from the brick crisis and the cuts he was making from the Generalitat and from the cases of corruption that were now, precisely, coming out, with the last sentence against the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia..., he went out in that campaign with open arms and the sea at the bottom, which seemed Moses leading the Catalans to the land of promise, his successors, himself and his successors, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Torra, because they have deepened that crisis. Democracy has been put on the rise, and we have made no progress, nothing has been done productively since the governments of the Generalitat, more than losing opportunities, impoverishing Catalonia, losing leadership in Spain – our position, which is being snatched from us day after day by the Community of Madrid – and, finally, dividing the Catalans. Stop this, you gentlemen of the government, give a truce to the citizens of Catalonia, do not continue in your policy of trenches, be responsible for once, the occasion deserves it and demands it. And, with all due respect to the Lords of Junts per Catalunya, Mr. Torra, the vast majority of Catalans do not care too much about the date of their trial, nor to the Lords of Republican Left, the commons or the PSC. Most people worry much more about coming to the end of the month, the possibility of losing their job, that their elders do not die trapped in a residence without receiving medical help..., they do not care about the political dreams of a tripartite or of the left with the electoral calculator in hand, or of some partners against others. We, therefore, tell them that they will not find us working for an election, but for the reconstruction of the country, which is what we are here for today, for the people who inhabit our autonomous community, because we only care about people, as I told them a moment ago, and not about territories. And we don't care about the language they speak – as some counselor is so worried about the language they speak on TV3 – how they think or how they look, but help to get everyone out of the crisis together. [[Some applause.]] Let us follow the collective example of the responsibility that the citizens have given us, which they have acted together, concertedly, to get us out of the crisis. Look, there is no instruction manual in front of an unprecedented pandemic, but there is common sense, which tells us that to move forward it is better to let one help and collaborate and add. We would do this with any government that would have faced this situation, and we do it by voting in Congress what we believe best for the Spaniards, and we will do it also in the Parliament of Catalonia, because our hand stretched is not to this bench of the Government, but to all Catalans, and it is for something very easy to understand: that this does not go from the usual political battles, but from the life and job of all Catalans. That is why we want to appeal to the parties and to the citizens to work together, and Ciutadans' commitment to the Catalans, directly by drawing, let us say, the people of the political parties that we are gathered here today, to work with loyalty, with loyalty for all, in reconstruction. We want that direct commitment to the citizenry, a commitment that transcends the political relations that the parties can enter into in this Parliament, a commitment to Catalan society, to each of the people who make up it, a commitment that, I told you, comes from afar, when we first entered this Parliament in 2006. So I am addressing all of you today with the firm will that this plenary be a reset that will allow us to move on and start a new stage to overcome the pandemic, but also to overcome the endemic evils carried by Catalan society: corruption, poverty, the long waiting lists in health, the mismanagement of the public, the waste, the wages and the martyrdom of the process. Will you be able, gentlemen of the Government? Will they be able to park our differences and concentrate on the only thing that unites us or should unite us, which is to overcome this pandemic? Citizens are indeed able to sit with anyone to seek solutions against this pandemic and its effects for the benefit of all Catalans, and therefore we will try in this appeal to everyone, think what they think, work together, as this pandemic has shown that it can be done, all agreed to decrease the spread of the virus and overcome the differences, because if we do not do it now, I do not know when we will do it. We, on the other hand, want to remind them that it is also true that Mr Torra has had a few words, for, let's say, reaching out to the opposition, that neither..., the truth is that he has not stopped hurting himself continuously from belonging to Spain, if not a republic, which for him would have been the solution to everything. And then this, of course, also forces us to refer to ourselves in this speech about the pandemic to the process as it is, which is the main stumbling block for coexistence, for understanding between us, and for a successful exit from the coronavirus crisis. The exclusionary nationalism that we live in Catalonia, so often stained with supremacism and racist comments, discrimination against citizens by the language they speak or by their ideology, which has come to the point of challenging democracy and jumping shamefully into this Parliament the Constitution, the Statute of autonomy, the Rules of Parliament, has placed us, in Ciutadans, in the strongest opposition to their project of separation and rupture. And I'm going to give bad news to the separatist bench, and good news to the one hundred thousand people who gave us the victory in the past autonomous elections. We will continue there, in the firm opposition to your rupturist and identity project, denouncing every euro that you spend on chiringuitos for your friends in embassies or in unjustified bailouts while Catalans are going to suffer, in addition to the cruel death of their loved ones, the worst economic crisis since the Civil War. Ciutadans has been the party of freedoms, and now it will be the party of reconstruction. We never surrender to nationalism and will never surrender to this crisis. And ladies and gentlemen, in this historic plenary session for the reconstruction of Catalonia we have to take care of the demands of millions of Catalans who are having a bad time. We have the opportunity to reach agreements with responsibility to save Catalonia's future. I would also like here to address the two major national parties, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, to help us citizens refocus the priorities of Catalan politics. We need them. The People's Party, we have seen as in the last vote to Congress, at the end of the state of alarm, in the end voted..., we sincerely and modestly believe that by the influence of Ciutadans, it voted in a vote, aligned, let us say, with the same postulates as the government. We hope that the People's Party in Catalonia will also focus on refocusing Catalan politics, helping us refocus Catalan politics on the priorities that interest us all. And I have to refer to the position of the PSC – and I am pleased that Mr.Iceta is here. We hope you will not do as you have us used to, Mr.Iceta, which is to profile yourself, not to bother, not to bother the Government, with the aim of seeing what future pacts of office and politicburo you make to ensure that the power here in Catalonia is guaranteed. Seek consensus here in Catalonia that include the People's Party and Ciutadans. Let us bring moderation and respect for the rules of the game to a nationalism that has been on the mountain for too long. And another thing, let us criticize, let us make a loyal opposition with the Catalans, let us not validate, let us not give for good to the rulers who are guided by a selfish ideology and dyed even, sometimes, in one of their leaders, of supremacism. I am convinced – and we have a cordial relationship with many of you – that you are certainly phenomenal in private life, but I tell you, your ideologies are often dangerous to societies, as, for example, when you flirt with the path of the Slovenian war. You divide societies, you bring confrontation, you fantasize, you whitewash intolerants with a single requirement, that they be yours. If they are investigated for terrorism and are yours, they applaud them in this Parliament, and that cannot be. And the Socialist Party must help, or is it that to be progressive is to silence in the face of the toxicity of certain ideologies and against the use of the Generalitat as an instrument of division and confrontation? We don't think so. That is why we are sure that, to the extent that the two major national political parties, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, with Citizens, propose to us, we can refocus Catalan politics. The failure of the identity rupturist project of separatism is exhausted. The Covid's emergency must serve us to make politics useful and put Catalonia in the prominent place it deserves. And I'm going to finish right now. Gentlemen of the Government, you now have the opportunity to listen to this opposition and, for once, to stop making excuses, to throw balls away blaming third parties, blaming Madrid for all the evils, and to implement all the measures that this Parliament agrees for the good of our community. We wait for you in the field of solutions and reconstruction, and do not waste time, because Catalonia does not have enough. Everything that this Parliament agrees within the framework of our powers has to be done by the government. I will not tire of insisting on the change that this plenary must entail in the usual course of Catalan politics. We must work together to rebuild and improve the lives of all Catalans. We propose that the Commission for Reconstruction should monitor the implementation of the agreements, extend its work as much as necessary, and that the Government should appear there regularly to explain to Parliament the progress made in the implementation of the agreements. You will understand that we do not trust you to focus on what matters to everyone. The new normality is an opportunity for the new coexistence, to re-found the social and civil contract between Catalans. Some have lived to create conflict and then perpetuate themselves by and for conflict, and they also come to fight each other to be hegemonic on the independenceist side. Can we all work for and for reconstruction? Are you capable? I am sure that the Catalans, the vast majority, would like a truce of the process and an alliance for reconstruction, from the difference, with respect for ideas and the law and institutions, but above all with respect for the Catalans who hope that we can overcome this among all of them. If we don't do it now, when? Let us do what we do for our children, for our young people, for those who have gone and for those who will come. And I'm done: by the time they ask us what did you do to overcome that pandemic? , let's say with our heads high that we were on the side of the solutions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.12.0	You're out of your mind, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.13.0	... against selfishness, closure and intolerance, and on the side of reconstruction. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.14.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, MP Miquel Iceta. [[Pause and voice of the background.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.15.0	Oh, Batet, don't give more of yourself, the thing. [[Rialles.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin the intervention, I think it is obligatory, remembering the victims of the Covid-19, their families, their friends, and recognize the efforts of professionals who have fought in the first line against this pandemic. We have said a lot, these long weeks, but we must insist on it: there have been midwives and midwives, nurses and nurses, health personnel of all kinds, of emergencies, of social services, pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals, the movements, the security forces of the State, the local police, the Military Emergencies Unit, but also the professionals of the communication media, the workers and workers of the basic services of the food chain, of the cleaning services, of the transports, all those who have made possible the continuity of our activities, in these difficult circumstances imposed by the pandemic. And, therefore, our gratitude, our recognition. Many thanks to them and to them. The crisis that we have experienced and continue to live has dramatic figures. Today, the Department of Salvation fixes 12,576 people who have lost their lives in Catalonia because of the Covid-19. And, therefore, a crisis of this natural nature we do not have to turn it into a camp subscribed to by the partisan struggle. And that meant sometimes making a containment effort. And I want to do it on account of responsibility and conviction. There has been an unprecedented health crisis in our home and in the world, and it is a crisis that, as the Health Counsellor has rightly said, has not ended. More than 10 million confirmed cases across the planet, and half a million deaths, according to official figures, show the magnitude of this disease. Governments, at all levels, have deployed and continue to adopt health, social and economic measures without precedent, to minimize the effects of the pandemic and with the priority objective of protecting people's health and well-being. A collective effort that has also been accompanied by the personal responsibility of each city and every citizen, and that requires and requires solidarity and coordinated work and cooperation from the society of all institutions and all public and private agents. Since the first moment, priority has been on the part of all saving lives and curbing the spread of the disease, and then trying to ensure that people's economy and well-being are not harmed by the effects of the crisis. All governments have been surprised and overwhelmed by the magnitude of this pandemic, all of them, and all governments have tried to do the best they can. Everyone or almost everyone, because it's true that they see what's going on in Brazil or in the United States, someone has doubts that all governments really have been set up. But we said from the very first moment on: it's about adding effort, working together, engaging in loyal cooperation and coordination among all levels of government. And it's true, leiiness does not exclude expressing criticisms and discrepancies, but it does exclude the use of criticisms and discrepancies to raise walls. What is needed is to build bridges to help adjust decisions, to take advantage of opportunities and to share efforts. A loyalty that, President, we found missing in his Government, no longer only respects the Government of Spain, but also local authorities, which, on numerous occasions during this crisis, found themselves alone and without clear instructions in the fight against the pandemic. And, in our perspective, there has also been a lack of dialogue effort with the rest of the political forces. We haven't even started trying to agree on economic recovery and social reconstruction measures, and we're late, president. Since the beginning, every person has assumed his or her responsibilities and has a sincere willingness to agree and cooperate. The truth is, I suspect a lot of those governments who end up talking more than they think of them than they do of their own competitions. « Tips I see that for me I do not have, says the refrany castella. And I'm sorry to say that during this crisis we have sometimes thought that the government's performance was more guided by the political confrontation than by the better of its competence and the effectiveness of its management, ras and short. It has often appeared that your government wanted to take advantage of this crisis to advance a political agenda of its own independent project. You have no rival at the time of centrifuging responsibilities, making heavy memorials and making excuses. And we believe that this is not a way to govern. The summary of his intervention is what we did well, despite the interbanks that put us in the State; and what we didn't do was because Spain had to do it, and look what we said and didn't do it. That's the summary. If that were the case, there would be no room for manoeuvre and no room for improvement. And we believe that there is and, therefore, I believe that it is necessary to avoid drifting all responsibility into others, as your government has often done because, if not, there is no incentive to improve, there is no responsibility for what is done or what is not done. And we have many proposals in this direction, and they are contained in our motions for resolutions. The pandemic has made us more vulnerable, sense of doubt. And I'm glad that you're leading this eminent Social-Democratic who is Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who follows a nisaga, of Willy Brandt and Helmut Schmidt, of statesmen, who may be true that at times like we live missing. But Catalonia will not be able to get out of this crisis alone, neither will Spain. The conjunction of the European Union, and if it arises and is uncertain. And so we still think that federal cooperation is the most powerful and effective tool to solve problems. It is true that you return to the Government of Spain that you have exercised leadership. Look, we, in change, do the opposite: criticizing you for not exercising it. They have done it in collaboration with all the autonomous communities; with a model, it is true, unfinished, sometimes improvised, of shared governance, but it is what it was playing. You said that, in short, you have already found, perhaps, the fifteen meetings with the President of the Government of Spain, and the rest of the presidents of autonomous communities, of little or no use. So, listen to us, they were motiu d'esperança, that in paresis, that can contrast positions, that can improve proposals. You said yourself on some occasion that you were given the reason, always late and poorly, naturally, but, finally, you accepted that this served something. I understand, and since there is no councilwoman I will not insist very much on respect, in case I want to contradict, but the collaboration between the Ministry of Health and the Department of Health has been permanent and good. And that doesn't rule out that he didn't always agree and that there were different points of view and even some point of conflict and contradiction, but it's that with a logic of a composite state like ours it's quite inevitable. I have to look at meeting figures: 34 coordination meetings with health advisors and advisors through the Interterritorial Council; 68 bilateral meetings; 10 meetings with public health directors. I think we've been working together since the state. You, president, say: "We had our competitions. I, in that, disagree, cordially, friendly. You have always been competent about the Hospital del Mar, or the Hospital Clínic, or the Hospital de la Vall d'Hebron. At no time have they lost their concrete skills in salvation. And now, even more, certainly, in the process of de-escalation, until the return to normality, that we will see when we can give it up by arrival. Even so, you said it too, you had some ability to give private sector instruction that you didn't have before. Certainly, EUR 43,000 for each patient admitted to the ICU from a private hospital, I don't know if it's a small amount of money. And, what decisions did the Government of Spain finally reserve? Those of general character that affected rights and freedom of speech, long since the state of alarm was in force, and, therefore, not even now, that. About the material. A lot of things have been said about the material, but I have to say it, and I am also saying it amicably: President, I have found the figures, one by one, of which the State has brought to Catalonia with material, and until you make the book that you have announced to us about the epic or the idea of the purchase of material by the Generality, I have not been able to find it referring to our country. I know that there will be 14,650,000 masks – including those of cabalistic number –, 6,584,682 nitrile gloves, 59,421 protective oils, 63,479 bats, 114,886 hydroalcoholic solutions, 906,400 rapid tests, 342,529 PCR kits, 234,000 extraction kits and 1,153 invasive mechanical ventilation equipment. All this information is public, it's on the ministry's website, and at least until the book is announced, we can't donate copies with this precise reference to what has been done from the government of Catalonia. Then we talk about transparency and accountability. The Minister of Health has appeared thirteen times in the Congressional Health Commission. I only say that he has appeared thirteen times, compare it to the level of retention of accounts in his government's parliamentary office. And there are four areas in which we have concerns about what has happened and, above all, what we can do better. Hi: Miri has worked very well, but, as always, we have to say "gifts" the circumstances, which have been overflowing everyone. Basic conclusion: you referred to, and shared your criteria, and, moreover, I understand that you have given a very good welcome to this manifesto, to this document prepared for the colleges of professionals and scientific societies, and you even said one day from here the necessary consensus... It is not that we take the word, it is that we are totally agreed, president. And, it is true, for a few years there have been some details that have affected and perhaps we have now seen the gravity of its effects, with this crisis. What do we need? Home, ensure social and territorial cohesion, ensure the public character of the system, its sustainability, equity, quality, technological innovation, accountability and transparency in a context where the population is growing, increasing chronicity, increasing health costs and there is a difficult economic landscape. So, we would say, announcing the objectives is simple, finding the solutions in this mark may not be so much. The Spanish government decided to make a fund for health investment of €9,000_million. I suppose Catalonia doesn't have to match 2,000. And you say: "It is insufficient. Home, I also have to say to him: we felt him, listening, at the beginning of the pandemic, a claim of 5,000_million euros, and today I heard him 30,000. And, surely, tomorrow you'll think it might have been short, and maybe you don't need it right. What happens is that every citizen knows that we will never have all the resources we want to do what we need. And to govern is precisely to find this balance between the available resources, the priorities that need to be met and the real possibilities to do so. But, therefore, point number 1: covenant for salvation. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Second: the education system. We've also had problems with this. For example, there was a time when we all found that distance learning could somehow make it easier to close the schools, but then we found ourselves with a very important digital key, where many families do not count on the resources or the concrete instruments that allow us to do this. There have been moments of great uncertainty. If a..., and they don't think that's what I'm saying in terms of criticism, because it's been passed on to all governments: the initial plans that are made for the school-course dam have very little to do with the ones that the department is currently setting up. Finally, in one day, you and the Education Advisor gave different amounts of inversion to try to set the course forward. Not at all, it's obvious, we're all trying to do the best we can and getting as many resources as we can. Now, we all play a lot, and say all, say the country, with the beginning of the coming school year. And so, here too, all our support, all our ability to try to adjust decisions, make them more consensual and make them not only with the educational community, but also with the local world, because it is also true that many of them have a local influence. Third. You have criticized the Government of Spain very much, with answers, goddess, late or little clarity. Look, all governments have been through it, and here we have had a very important case that it is the case of residences – residences – but not only in Catalonia and Spain, on the planet's side, where they have residences, have been the places where the pandemic has done worse. There were moments of real anguish to not be able to accompany the ills and for a feeling of total lack of protection. I have to say, personally we have sometimes thought about home, so if the mother would be better in a residence, and suddenly the thought that came to you is: "We didn't do it. I have to say that I want to thank you and recognize the effort your government has made and the change of responsibility, because, it is true, it was not easy, but it was done and it was decided that the Health Department is the one that protects this issue. But I think that's what the saying goes to the side of the problem that we have. Mirin, public and universal health care cannot stand at the door of a residence. And here's a problem we need to know: it was decided at a certain time to privatise healthcare from the residences. This has to end; we certainly can't do one day for the weekend, but we really have to tell people that the level of health care that they will have will be the same if they are at home, are in a hospital or are in a residence. And that, sadly, wasn't like that. And not by guilt or not by responsibility– that the word ‘guilty' does not appeal to the holders of residences– in many cases, holders of private or concerted residences–, but because they have not really linked heads. And therefore, I believe that the decision to transfer this responsibility to the Department of Health from a pandemic to a pandemic was an uncertain measure; I suppose it was difficult and complex in many ways, but I also wanted to recognize it. Tell him too that this pact that we will have to make..., many times, in Catalonia, we use the expression "model, don't we? ; diem: « We will change the model. I have to tell you that sometimes I'm a little skeptical because we're changing the model as if you can change from one day to the next or as if there were models, so to speak, good and bad models. Processes, in general, are evolving. But, certainly, the serious impact that it has had on the residents, this pandemic, implies a lot of thought, which must be done with the sector, because, probably, if we want – that it is a legitimate model – to make this sector completely public today for the year that it sees, therefore, would be impossible. And, therefore, I believe that, despite the fact that we are all very concerned and sometimes all tend to seek magical and immediate solutions to very big problems... so let's not fall into this mistake, but let's keep thinking hard and taking action, because, effectively, as it was proposed, this model was not used for a situation like this. Unfortunately, it's a situation that can be reproduced again, and so what we have to plan for. She said, the counselor, another thing that she wanted to give her all the reason, and said, first, "The crisis has not ended. And the second is the feminization of this crisis, the brutal charge on the gifts of our country, and, in general, of all the countries: for problems of work type, for problems of family care, the cures collect functionally on the gifts. And I think we'd do well not to forget it, because sometimes we give it in a speech, people say, "Oh, look, maybe you're right, but then we don't take the steps that make it possible to straighten this out. I have some data: in infirmary, women are 85_per_cent; in pharmacy, 72_per_cent; in residents and centres of dependents, 84_per_cent; in net services, 90_per_cent. And, therefore, they have been crucial and have been either objected to or rejected the greatest impact of this crisis. And, therefore, we need to look at why women's occupation is recovered at the same speed as men's occupation, because a shameful wage exclusivity between men and women does not persist, because crises like these do not involve a step backwards in a path to equality that we have long ago, which we have advanced, even though there is still a lot to do. Fourth element of concern or fourth sector that we are very concerned about: those of social protection. You said so, and I think this is unanimous, to put people at the center of public policies. So effectively; all of us say that there are fewer families in a situation of vulnerability, fewer families in a situation of poverty. And the reports – before Lorena Roldán referred to Intermon Oxfam's report – tell us that this crisis has involved an increase in inequalities, an increase in the poor and a huge impact on social exclusion phenomena. He told us, in this report, that 93,000 Catalans and Catalans could fall under the umbrella of the poor the own mesos. This is a 9_per_cent increase, and it would exceed 1_million people. And, it's true, it's not an exclusive situation in Catalonia; it's happened in Spain and in the countries with which we usually compare. The Spanish Government has put some measures on the table: a subject of even more food aid, has increased the contribution of social services to the Concerted Plan, for home or tele-assistance courses, has guaranteed the sub-administration of water and energy to low-income households, has decreed a moratorium on mortgages and a prolongation of the social good and, in particular, has put aside the vital minimum income, which in our home will benefit one hundred and a thousand families. Presumably, vital minimum income is one of the most important social measures of the past and must be compatible, as the laws provide, with the guaranteed income of citizenship. And, therefore, we need to establish the mechanisms that make it really possible. We take into account the fact that the Catalan Government has been trying for about three years to establish the rule of guaranteed income for citizens, and therefore we should print out a greater speed in the process, we would say, of interconnection of both aids if we really want to do the job. And, president, before the crisis, Catalonia was located at the Cua d'Espanya for health, education and social services, and despite some efforts, which we also want to recognize, we have not yet recovered the levels of public service spending that there were at times when the Government of the Generality imprisoned José Montilla. And with this crisis, I said before, we've seen that the effects of retailing have been hard. I have to tell you, I asked him in a control session and I took advantage of it today to explain the issue... we still don't know what additional spending he's spent on his government because of the pandemic. Nor..., and today you have made us an announcement that we also want to value, that at the end of the month we will know both the plan of reconstruction, reactivation, dam – the plan of dam, which seems to me to please you most – as the presuppositionary modifications on which it is based. Encourage them to really do that. The Citizens' Group sees that it intends to propose that the Reconstruction Commission be the one that can follow it, that seems to us to be a correct mechanism, that no one has to worry about, because really after this effort we all have to be, every one of its accents and its project, but we have to be absolutely all of it. It is true that there was his demand for more resources from the State and even all direct access to the Mede. So, it's things to talk about. We need to remember that there is a decision to create this 16,000-million-euro autonomous fund and that it can be said that it is insufficient, as someone could say that 30,000-millions are also insufficient. But I believe, President, that it is also necessary to make an effort to place what efforts with resources that the Generality is willing to make in order to improve the priority of social services, of services to people, of welfare, of health, of education and of social services. And here, it is true, they will tell us at the end of the month, but it really does make us the effect that there is a very great emphasis on complaint and little on self-requirement. And I think the claim will always be stronger, more justified, more powerful, if there is this effort of self-requirement. And we need to agree on that. Finally, reactivation of the economy. Look, there's a lot of things to do and all that we do sometimes seem a few, but there's a question that doesn't have a value, so to speak, economic, but it does have a value, I think, important, an intangible, which is consensus around the issue. All governments – first because there's a rush to act and then because sometimes it's more convenient – feel more like taking action and explaining it later. But when we're talking about an effort that will require the mobilization of resources that we still don't have from the start, I would be convinced that this effort of consensus is made. A good part of the economic measures must be logically directed at saving existing businesses and jobs, but we must also think about the jobs and businesses to create. And here I have to say that our group is particularly concerned about issues such as the shortage of Catalan universities, which have for years not seen their resources increased, and that, in addition, successive proposals to lower tuition fees are not offset by additional fees. Therefore, here we have a very serious problem. There is some part of our country that we are particularly affected at these times, that of trade and tourism, also logically, because they have affected especially. The Government of Spain, from this point of view, has made a decision that it seems right to me, that it is to generalize the ERTOs and to give them a continuity also in September. Well, 30,000_million euros in theory have had the impact of ERTOs and autonomous aid in Catalonia. Deu-n'hi-do. I'm sure they're few, but there's no way. Like we're reviewing the strategic Pla of tourism. It is important that we make a special effort for the cultural sector, because some measures have actually been taken by the government, but it will convince me that they are not enough and have not reached the joint venture of the sectors that feed our culture. It is true that we would, many, want culture to reach 2_percent of the total budget, and perhaps it would be wise to forge a political and parliamentary consensus to lie down there. You ask for more or more resources. It is not alone in this, President, or in Catalonia or with other autonomous communities. We have seen, for example, a level of demand..., I will not say if more or less, but, finally, an important level of demand in the Government of the Valencian Government, too, on this issue. But it does work for us – and here we would like to have the figures that we still don't have in order to be able to say with certainty – that the Valencian Government, while these resources arrive, has made an effort to mobilize resources that are more important than that made by its Government. And we'd love to know if it's true or not. And this we can only know when the figures, which only you have, are provided to us. We want to help. And, therefore, from this point of view a claim of more resources does not seem alien to us. What would seem wrong to us is to put forward impossible expectations that would justify a process of permanent claim and frustration. And of that, President, we should talk. For example, at some point you had asked that the deficit level could rise to 2, today you left it in 1. Why? I'm not critical of him either. You're obvious. They are reasonable magnitudes and discussions that can be held. We would like them to do this or to tell us today that they will do it at the end of the month and can do it as soon as possible better. The modifications of the guany assumption... I know that we believe, at the time it was approved, that it did not respond to the problems of the then, but now it is obvious that, with a problem of this magnitude added, it is obvious that modifications will have to be made. And it's true that the vice president could tell me with all the reason that until we know exactly what we're touching on the extraordinary foundations that the state has said that it's going to be on the market, it's very hard, we'd say, to have the material realization of all this. Certainly. But, president, I don't know..., because that's just maybe in his head or maybe he hasn't made up his mind yet, but it's true that we can be in a certain discount time, and so every time we leave some things by the end of the month or when we come back, one thinks, "So I don't know if I've seen it. And, therefore, from this point of view, put a point of pressure on him let's say fraternally about the need for the knowledge of the data and of the proposals made by the government to be as soon as possible better. And we can't settle for getting out of the crisis thinking we're going back to the previous situation. You've said it many times, even criticizing me when I'm talking about reconstruction, because you say that this tends to make us think we're going to come back... You're right; there are new bases to settle, some of them have to do with the digitalization of our economy, others have to do with what they call the pact..., to the European Green New Deal, as, indeed, some in Catalonia can do that effort. I, therefore, cannot let the time pass. We must recover the economy on a more sustainable basis, because, if not, we would be keeping the foundations of unsustainable growth. It's over, President. We have mistrust of his government's capabilities – it's logical, we're a opposition party – and we tend to think that a better country would need a better government. But you're the president, you're the president of the government, and so it's up to you now to lead this political agreement in Catalonia on economic recovery and social reconstruction; to you now to open the way. We, for proposals, will not stay; we have already done many and we will do many more tomorrow – and the assembly of parliamentary groups, I am not sure, will do so too. Therefore, President, allow 'but the soul to..., so when it is that the elections have to be held, the Government, until the last minute, until the last second, and especially the President, do their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.16.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Fem now suspends the middle, until three-quarters of the late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.17.0	Good afternoon. It's part of the session. Then, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.18.0	Thank you, Vice President, and good afternoon to all of you. Before I begin, I would like to say to you, President, that I was very surprised by your proposal to ask the Mede for €5,000_million, precisely when it is moving away from the negotiations for the European reconstruction fund. I don't know if you present that this is in some way playing the game to Holland and Austria, that they are the ones who don't want a solid exit to the crisis, and that they are also standing on the side of the Popular Party of Married, and Garicano, of Ciutadans, which is precisely what they are asking for in Europe. But, well, we'll see how the subject evolves. That said, today is July 1, a hundred and twelve days have passed since the WHO decreed the existence of a global pandemic for coronavirus. It was March 11th; then it was inaugurated what the scientist Margarita del Val called the years of the pandemic, because we know that until we have a vaccine, then the virus will be among us conditioning our costumes, our hugs, our petons, and our economy. These weeks 12,576 people have died in Catalonia, and obviously the first thing I want to do is to remind them and send a strong hug to all their loved ones, and also to wish that all who are now the same pating and passing through this disease, so that they recover as soon as possible. Doubtless, we are talking about days, weeks that have been very difficult, days when we have seen heroic, responsible, solidary actions, where we have also been able to prove how thousands of people who are willing to lay down their body, to expose their lives to save us, to feed us, to protect us, days when the media have grown, when the citizenry has gone before and many times has arrived there where the institutional policy has not been done, and also where the governments recognize their shortcomings, and also that the situation was unforeseen, so they have acted as best they have known or could. And that's exactly what I mean. They certainly did not do everything right or right in the first place; this will already be seen at the relevant investigation commissions, and will therefore be done accordingly. What I wanted to say is that the governments have done – and I am not convinced – the best they have known or have managed. But there have also been weeks when we have seen that part of the policies have behaved in an opportunistic way, in taking advantage of the pers and uncertainty that often generates the anxiety of not knowing what will come, and that instead of wanting to help, to add, to want to cooperate, they have only sought to make the management of the health crisis a motivator of wear and destabilization of the central government, with classic techniques that we can see all the way from the extreme right: fake news, shovels to the wheels, crescitation..., nothing more. In any case, I am convinced that little by little the time will put it all in its place, and citizenship is smart to know exactly what's happened and what's going to happen. But let's go back to the present. Today is July 1st, we are celebrating a specific plethora for the reconstruction of Catalonia, a plethora that I believe is necessary, and we all here have the obligation and responsibility to be on the rise of the citizenry, to reach great agreements, and for the world's sake we could disapprove of this occasion. We must put the country at the forefront of ecology, of social justice, and obviously also of the economy, whenever it continues to be compatible with life. There is someone who understands that it has to go on like before the pandemic, because it was already going well, and the only concern we have is to know exactly what degree of inequality is that it is able to support society to return to the times and dynamics we had before this crisis. We, for our band, are setting up this House of Reconstruction, and so is the commission to engage in just a few days, as an intergenerational pact for the future, for life and for prosperity. We have seen during these months of confinement that life is the most important thing, a life that must be compatible with that of the planet and with the rest, too, of lives. And this has to be one of the key tasks of politics, and the women know it well: we are generally the ones who, in most cases, have to throw more effort into the home, the tasks of cures, and also the ones who have the most problems of reconciliation. It is true that in the last few years great steps have been taken to make this problem visible, but we are still far from achieving that our children live in an equal society, and also to guarantee the rights of the half of the population. To speak of the future, we consider that we must also speak of the present and the past; to speak of life, we must also speak of death, and we cannot speak of prosperity unless we refer to the levels of poverty, patience or precariousness that suffer thousands of Catalans and Catalans. And that's why I think it's important for this House to ask us a few questions, and also, above all, to find answers. The first question I want to ask is in which world we live when our opinions and our ancestors are seen many times, and not officially, but if in the end in the facts, more like a problem than an opportunity, as an example, as a referent of struggle, of resilience, or as a font of wisdom. It is unforgivable that when you no longer produce you become a burden or expense, as if everything can be measured according to what you consume, what you produce or the health care you need. And it is a paradox that those who have made a welfare system possible, some public servants, some vital guarantees, are now looking vulnerable and in the dark, because the system did not protect them well enough during this crisis. And as always, I respond to political decisions, by action or omission, but above all – above all – of the past. I also wonder how we can sleep calmly knowing that the degree of infection is higher in poor barrels, because the houses, therefore, either do not have the right conditions to guarantee a ward in case it is still necessary, or because these families are precisely those who are carrying out those essential tasks that make the rest of us keep the needy covered. And in most cases we talk about women, many times migrant people, and in all cases we are talking about people who are very poorly paid for the work they do. I also wonder if we want to maintain a system that makes thousands of women have to live under the same roadside with their attacker, so that in our country you don't need to file a complaint and guarantee security or because you don't have a housing alternative. Or if we care about those who want to perpetuate a model where we don't think it's what it is that they should charge the workers and the essential workers, depending on the risk, their salvation, the malaise that comes from some labor, the load of labor, their training or the offer and demand, which is what's going on until now. I'm also wondering if we're not doing anything when we have thousands of autonomies that are about to shut down their blind because we've allowed online plataforms to be camped on their own, without guaranteeing an alternative to the barricades, that they're really ruined and that they don't know if they can pull forward. Or when we have multinationals, like Nissan, doing and doing things on a voluntary basis, leaving thousands of families in our country behind, and then taking our hands off the head – we were able to see this on the part of Ciutadans or Juntes per Catalunya – when someone calls for responsible consumption, conscious consumption, not to buy in those places where our people are precarious or, directly, leave it to themselves. Count, let's not engage the multinationals, if not, they'll want to leave, right? So brave for some things but so cowardly for others. So the multinationals will go when they convince them, when they have places where they can produce more cheap, when someone makes tax gifts that are still superior to ours, or, quite simply, if they get too cheap to go. That's what's going to happen, just like that. Will we continue to leave the page behind, malviving or surviving with prices so low that they do not cover the costs of production? We won't react or change things when we see thousands of young people leave, migrate, because here they don't guarantee a future, when they have a tax of up to 30 percent, when they see worse than their parents, when they've done everything we've told them to do in order to have an autonomous life, and now we're not answerable? We'll do nothing to avoid structural segregation, not just confinement...? The confinement has worsened, but the segregation we suffer in Catalonia is structural. Infants are not only the responsibility of families; they are also the responsibility of governments, which must guarantee them the right to education, to food, to salvation, and also to equal opportunities. And that's not happening in Catalonia; in Catalonia, depending on your postal code, surely we can see where the rest of your life will end. And these I think are the questions that we have to ask ourselves in this House, but above all, as I said, not only do you ask us, but also give answers. If anyone thinks that going back to the same point as we were before the pandemic is a good idea, then I think I just want to perpetuate the cruelty, inequality and poverty that left us the 2008 release. They are the same people who think that the poor are desirous, that we have lived out of our possibilities, that the minimum vital ingredient is a payoff, that merit must be the only motor, as if we were all in the same exit box, or that public servants must be residual. These people are being harassed by the state, harassed by democracy, and the policies they want to make policies for the social majority. And that's why, in front of the lobbyists, before those who want submissive policies and who work for their economic and class interests, before those who want us to pay back for the crisis the usual, our obligation is to make policies for the 99_per_cent. So I think the least we can do is learn not only from these months, but from the last few years, and work to reverse it. I believe that we humbly have five lessons to learn from these months, but also from the last few years. The first is that we are vulnerable and interdependent. We need each other, and the ideology of'save' here is just an alibi for continuing to eat the usual, even though they are not in the election. The second is that when the situation really got complicated, when it didn't fail, when it saved us, it was the public. So it's up to us to take care of him, also his professionals, as they did during the crisis, but as they have always done. The third is that unlimited growth is incompatible with the biophysical limits of the planet, which in some cases we have already exceeded. You just need to see the images of the Siberian Arctic that you can see in the communication media at the end of June, where the temperature is two degrees per month from what you should be on a planet you know. The fourth is that our product model cannot rely exclusively on tourism and construction; we need to diversify it. It can't be that our country can't even make its own masks. And that's why we consider that the new product model has to go through an intelligent green reindustrialisation and a clear bet for relocation, science and innovation. And the fifth lesson is that inequality is not only unfair; it makes us worse than the country and fractures us as society. A few days ago we could read a report by Intermon Oxfam that said that the twenty-three biggest fortunes of Spain had seen their wealth increase by more than 19,000_million euros, and at the same time, there were 700,000 people who would go into poverty in the next few months; they are two points more than before this crisis, and more Catalonia will be one of the most affected territories for this situation. But it's that, besides, if we read Save the Children, what you tell us is that the poverty risk rate, while in the general population has increased by 0.3, in the case of infants up to 6_per_cent. This is the raw reality. And it's true that we see that things that, until a very short time ago, could seem dramatic, could seem impossible, like the minimally vital ingredient, so we got them. But we can't make up for it. Now we have the opportunity to shield and democratize public services, and also to show that there is an alternative to the current economic model. And this alternative, moreover, has to be multilevel. From the central government to the crisis that is radically different from 2008: we have, on the one hand, a social shield with ERTOS, with minimal vital input, with the guarantee of basic sub-administrations, with help to self-employed people or to lodgers; it has also enabled an autonomous rescue fund of €16,000_million for basic services such as safety, social services or education; it is working in the repeal of labour reform or tax reform because the great fortunes pay more... But, as I said, we need to go further there, we need to continue working from Europe, from the Congress of Deputies, from this Parliament, and also from the Government of the Generality. And here I am allowed to expose my doubts, because I don't think that a government that is practically in a state of interinitiation can give an answer to the challenges and the needs that we have like the country. We're not talking about surfing a crisis, we're talking about a reconstruction and a transformation to make Catalonia move forward. We saw this week in France as the citizenry has already decided on the second round of municipal elections, and, in the face of the bad news that we were able to see in the capital of Northern Catalonia, where the extreme right has won, the rest of the country is sure to have been green. And I believe that in Catalonia we also have the opportunity and the opportunity to do so. And that's why a few elections are called, because the citizenry has to be able to decide in which key this reconstruction is done. And I'll tell you one thing: I've been very hard during this legislature with President Torra, and most of the time we're in the ideological ancestry, but I recognize that he's raised a country horizon: insisting on independence as a political project for half of Catalonia, even though he still insists on the unilateral way, as he repeatedly proposes. I don't agree, but it's true that he made a proposal, and the citizenry will decide whether or not to do so. Do not let President Tora, Puigdemont, or Juntes join us for Catalonia: if they win the elections, they will re-establish the same agreements and do the same again. Therefore, I believe that today Catalonia lives in a cruilla: either to continue through Torra and Puigdemont or an alternative transformative left; an alternative that we propose and that, moreover, we want to push: or a project for the half of Catalonia or a new Catalonia built from the unity of the Catalan left. This is how we conceive of this crisis, as an intergenerational pact, as a new social contract driven by the unity of the left, by progressiveism, by a new Catalanism that knows that people always go ahead. But it's also important to know where we are and, above all, who we are. This week's chapter says that Esquerra Republicana has presented its objectives for reconstruction, and I ask myself if it's the government program, if it's Junts for Catalonia, if it's the electoral program directly from Esquerra, if Esquerra will continue to act as if you didn't form part of the government Torra-Aragonès, and above all ask me why we should believe them now. To the document they say they are an ecological force. The Republican Left has been the Government of the Generality for five years, and the breaches of the Climate Change Law are a mountain. But it's true that the Climate Change Law depends on a department, a consulting agency that is in the hands of Juntes for Catalonia. We could look at what Esquerra does with those materials that are indeed of his competence. He was talking about strengthening public services, especially sanitation, residences and education. And the truth is that we have not just heard why they are talking about strengthening public health, when the council that runs the Alba Vergés, therefore, has paid the highest price to private health from all over the State per patient Covid – forty-three_ thousand euros, before the twenty-four thousand, for example, that Navarra will pay –, they have outsourced the tracking of our cases of coronavirus to a branch of Ferrovial, and it seems that we will pay among all the termination of the contract. Professionals have been deceived with a classy gratification, with category prevailing and not effort or risk during the crisis. And I don't know if it seems reasonable to you, but it doesn't seem fair to us, so that they don't have this gratification, neither clean staff, nor home care, nor health transportation. In fact, clean staff have become infected in a 30_per_cent during these weeks of infection. And he also wanted to make a statement. The president said that the Catalan health system did not collapse during these pandemic weeks. Depending on what we can understand by col·lapse. When they have punches to get the big people into the ICUs in hospitals, because they don't have enough, for me, that's col·lapse. Or when the professionals have to choose who they put in a ventilator when there are two people who need it, for me it is col·lapse. Therefore, they all depend on the eyes and the criteria that each person has. We now see the subject of residences in the hands of Councillor Chakir El Homrani. They acted late and poorly – let's not say it, I think it's evidence – and they actually cheated more than a week than the sector was claiming to put it under the umbrella of Salvation. But we're talking about the model. You've been in charge of social affairs for more than five years. What have they done? Have they changed the model so that the great people, instead of being attached to each other outsourced, can be attached to the primary care centers? No, they're still outsourced, as I said. Have they approved a law of personal autonomy? No, no, Have they done any internalization? Neither do you. And I just want to remind you that in the last negotiation of assumptions we urged you to create nine places for public residences and they locked it in the band. And lastly, we're talking about education, the department that says it's Councilman Bargalló. Saying he's been giving gangs throughout the confinement, I think he's benevolent. In fact, he agreed with the unions, which have all called for his resignation; he has caused anguish among the families, and also disgust in the local world. But let's see what he's done during these years of the legislature, too, two. He was the syndic who had to launch the National Pact against Segregation, and even more, during the negotiation of assumptions, we know how we saw them and wished to finance the schools in Bressol and the inclusive school. It is true that a couple of days ago Councilman Bargallo presented the plan for the new beginning of the course in September, but once more he did it without a dialog, without listening to the educational community. Today the president said: "We will listen to the educational community. Yeah, but maybe we should've listened to them before. I think we're already finding ourselves with a regular way to do it. And if Esquerra has now decided to square his words with his facts and, really, strengthen the public services, then we celebrate it; but before we see it, because I remind you that you are in government, you are not an opposition force. And then there is the Socialist Party, with whom we share the Government of the State, yes, but beyond some votes that we, frankly, do not understand, how to vote against the inquiry committee of the monarchy or the LAGs, either..., and yet, speaking of reconstruction, we understand less that you are opposed to a tax on great fortunes, a Covid tax, because somewhere they have to come out of money, not just from Europe. Here's a camp to run with a big fortune tax. We know that the asset tax is absolutely ineffective, with the amount of bonuses it has. Or we don't understand that they're blocking the gatherings to make use of the surpluses and the Romans that they have to deal with the crisis, not just health care, but mainly the social crisis. The truth is, we don't understand. However, we do not ask anyone to renounce their legitimate objectives. What we are asking is directly to the Socialist Party that stops looking at Ciutadans, and to the Republican Left, that stops looking at Junts per Catalunya. Don't look at the inquests and look at the country, and also look to respond to your needs. And I think that right here can never be an option, but neither can it be that forces that are said to be progressives– and, moreover, I am convinced that their voters are progressives–, when they are then in government, do not follow sufficiently strong or do not make their words square with their facts. It is now more than ever when we need great agreements, when we need courageous measures, when effective responses to the social and economic crisis, because we cannot lose a minute more in the reconstruction of our country. And that's why, before the current government of the Generality and the lack of direction, Catalonia is a good government, a solid government, a cohesive government, and above all a successful one. And here we do want to make, therefore, a follow-up of proposals. In the health system, Catalonia needs to review the current model and governance of the health system. It's not enough to applaud the balconies. To defend it, we need to review all the externalisations that exist to private suppliers who have no choice but to work. It is necessary to plan the recovery of services, starting with rehabilitation, logo and 061. It is about caring for those who care for us and strengthening our system of salvation. This also goes to a minimum investment land of 7_per_cent and to a structural reform of the working conditions of health professionals. On the issue of residences, which, as I have said, has been one of the darkest points throughout the crisis and which has revealed what are the fruits of the neoliberal policies that have been applied so far, what is needed is to design a model of social health care that is people-centred, with a clear increase in assumptions to put forward a proposal for comprehensive care that coordinates various social, health, community agents, and that obviously has to go through demerchantisation. For what it does to fiscal justice, to deal with this crisis and to strengthen public services we will need money, and they will not have to pay for the crisis, again, the usual, they cannot be the usual. And that's why we're asking the Catalan progressive forces to help us press the state government because it believes this Covid tax; we're asking Esquerra not to get rid of the negotiation of the assumptions, and above all we're asking the Socialist Party to stick with it: it can't be that our fiscal reform, that of Catalonia, that we got in the negotiation of the assumptions..., you'll seem a little, as if you're short, when it's the strongest, most progressive and most progressive fiscal reform of the past two years, and now you don't have a Covid tax for the great fortunes of the state government, as you've done, without going anywhere else, the Democratic Party to Italy. For what it does to industry, we obviously want to protect our industry. We believe that it is a national plan for the industry that should have a duration of five years, and, among other things, it must contemplate, therefore, to condition the aid of the European reconstruction fund that manages the Generality to those companies exclusively that keep the occupation in Catalonia. The Generalitat also has to establish mechanisms of control and participation in the big decisions of companies that have public aid. And, of course, the formation of the workers and the workers for the new jobs and for the new jobs that we have like the country should also be contemplated in this national plan for the industry; it is an essential condition to create jobs of quality, and this must be one of the tasks of reconstruction. And besides, as he recalled the other day the grouping of entities that work on the job placement of people who suffer mental disruptions in labor, we can't forget about all those people who were already at the bottom of the access to a decent job before the Covid. The new product model has to be diverse, it has to be based on the ecological transition, industry, quality occupation, research and innovation. And above all it has to end with projects that are obsolete and that are purely speculative, such as the expansion of the Prat airport, such as Barcelona World, the Terramar Autòdrom or the prolongation of the C-32 between Blanes and Lloret. In the same direction, we will also vote for the creation of a public energy operator in the Catalan field. We brought it up a year ago, you decided it wasn't a good idea, we're going to try again, because we think that renewables have to be boosted, that energy has to be democratised and, above all, that it has to be fought in front of the oligopolis. A fifth point that we also consider important is to look at what is happening in other countries on the issue of housing, with the difficult problem that we have in accessing housing. It may be necessary to make the relevant legislative changes to reduce the claims of tourist use habitats, mainly in those areas which are highly tense and where there is a lack of residential accommodation. Cities cannot be, as it is now, a tourist attraction park, while the veins and veins are being driven away. For what it does to culture, we carry out a follow-up of measures in the motions for resolutions, but I do want to highlight one, which is the cultural xec for people and families who have been hardest hit by the crisis. We consider that we do not let anyone else go back and forth to guarantee universal access to culture. And last but not least, and while we're carrying a lot more fears, I do want to refer to education. We have a specific plan to reverse inequalities, which have worsened even more during this confinement, and above all a model of vocational training that is actually, not as it is now, consensual with both social workers and the educational community, so as to put an end to early school drop-outs, to promote long-term education and, above all, to give work outs. I believe that these measures can be agreed between most Members of this House and Members of this House. We also consider it essential to listen to entities and to listen to civil society. There are proposals that are very interesting, such as the one that is working the Social and Solidary Economy of an economy for life, but today we can also listen to the sign of hardships, we have to listen to the Table of the Third Sector, which yesterday also made a cry of alarm before the desperate situation in which we find ourselves now. We need to work out big agreements, big consensuses. I don't think there's any good party visions. We can't let another minute pass for the reconstruction of Catalonia. And that is why, President, I want to finish this intervention by calling again for elections, because the citizenry can decide on which key this reconstruction is: whether we continue to maintain the Torra-Puigdemont route or whether the citizenry actually bets on a social economic alternative, where the transformative lefts can give a new exit to the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.19.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of Deputy Carles Riera, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.20.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place we want to add to what the rest of the groups that have preceded us have done by making a well-deserved reminder and a tribute to the victims of this pandemic, to their families, and also a recognition and a tribute to the public servants and workers of the essential services, who have made possible the support of life during the duration of the confinement and the hardest phases of this pandemic. But if Covid, if the coronavirus has been a pandemic that we want to be circumstantial, capitalism is a historical pandemic that continues to kill every day from the world; and that's why today we also want our recognition and tribute to Pau Camp and Angel Mielgo, miners who died recently in our country. Well, president, representatives of the government, deputies and deputies, we are fully aware of what Covid-19 has meant and the difficulties in dealing with health emergencies. At all times, you know, publicly and internally we have given our support to many of your initiatives, and continuously, without stopping, since March 19th, we have made proposals continuously. We also have to say that we have not rejected the majority of our proposals. Therefore, we must base ourselves on what we see as the work of government and government action during this pandemic and that we see above all through its decrees and some of its main initiations. And here we see that, while Constable Vergés ensured that private sanitation was involved, what the Health Department actually did was to promote a decree fixing the price of the Generality and paying the private more than forty thousand euros per patient donated high to the ICU to the private. The decision not to intervene in the residences, despite the fact that from the CUP and from many municipal governments a cry of help had been made to intervene in those who were deprived and most affected by the epidemic. We did not have to mourn more than four thousand dead, and we are sure and certain that some of them could have avoided intervening and guaranteeing protection protocols to their workers. Two days ago, only two days ago, two contracts for the outsourced management of two residences with Eulen, for irregularities in the management of users during the pandemic, which were only two days ago. Today we still do not know whether CAPs will reopen, as, when, or who will be the abst of their action, of their coverage, when it is the foundation of our public health and of any preventive intervention. Sanitàries in Lluita, it is said, the health personnel who have been at the front line facing the pandemic, those who every day at 20 hours applaud, carry weeks asking for a meeting with the Health Counsellor, without getting to hours of the day, still, no answer. At the same time as the Orfeu plan was suspended, we discovered that this government was buying evidence from private laboratories for more than €4.5 million, while public laboratories are shut down, as investigators and staff who work there have denounced. The alarm state had not yet been raised, which had already recovered the charges, with the active collaboration, as always, of Councillor Buch's Squadron Mousses. The suspension of aid to the loguer, when thousands of families find themselves in a situation of vulnerability and the weather has increased by one hundred_dotze_ thousand people respect May 2019. Briefly informing the municipalities of the possibility of attaching a public price to funeral homes and the suspension of this measure one_month later. And, again, death in this country must also be paid for. A concession awarded to Ferrovial for the follow-up of positive contacts involving scouts, which is a basic action of public health and health prevention. And so we can follow a long list of misproposals, from our point of view, from this government. Today, President Torra has given us a surprise that we sincerely consider, President, very wrong and very wrong: the request of a Mede loan to the European Union. This was associated not only with another interest, but you said no: it was associated with detail and greater intervention by our public economy, our institutions. And it will. And speaking of the present and talking about the future, mirin, we have said enough: we do not agree to talk about reconstruction to return to normality prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. And for two main reasons. The first is that it is a pretense, by no means, absurd. Covid-19 has changed our world, and that normality will never come back. Its present impacts and future effects are of such magnitude that they force us to reinvent ourselves in a world and in a rapidly changing society on a global scale. And the second, and perhaps even more important, is that normality, the former, was already part of the problem; in fact, it was the problem. Let's talk about a few moments of which was that normality from a critical perspective, from our perspective. Mirin, a country torn by a great inequality that condemns a 25_percent of the population to the poor. A impoverishment, an exclusion and an inequality of women leaving the tasks of essential cures, as has once more proved, but the production and reproduction of life at the expense of recognition and public support. A job every day more precarious, with a working class every day more exploited and a capital every day more despotic; if not, they ask the lords and lords of Nissan. A devastated territory and an accelerated climate change. Common bounties evil and converted into private business. Fundamental rights, such as the right to housing and the right to basic sub-administrations for life, maintained to a significant part of the population and converted into a speculative commodity that condemns the majority to vital precariousness. And a few denunciations – effectively, president – immoral ones that keep growing. You serve publics that are spread out, precarious or privatized, with the resulting loss of quality and care capacity and with a continuous retreat in the labor rights and working conditions of their workers. Institutional racism, exploitation and exclusion of migrants. Increase in fascism and impunity for their actions. Repression of social, civil and political rights. Criminalization and persecution of protest and dissent. Institutional blockade of the Generality, which continues to intervene for the State, with an autonomy in regression and with a failed government, unable to give response either to the social needs of the majority or to the resolution of the political conflict over our self-determination. And, look, on this normality – on this normality – above the Covid-19, on this normality the coronavirus acts, and, obviously, its effects, the effects of the pandemic, are much harder, effectively, than it might have been if we had not found ourselves with decades of public services connected, with an unequal growth, with infrahabitations and with most of the working class in precarious conditions. And now the economic and social crisis above us is of enormous magnitude. The institutions of the State and of the Generality only answer it with the usual receptions and measures, and, as always, the European Union is not on the rise either. Measures to return to an earlier normality claim, which was already at the root of the problem. Measures without courage and ambition, short-flying, which are useless to resolve the effects of the crisis and to tackle its structural causes. You still want to save, rescue a ship that is drifting and that is already starting to sink, from an economically and socially unsustainable and humanly unbearable model. And they will ask for talks with the State and the European Union to repeat the usual policies, already failed, to sustain the old order, its powers and its elites and oligarchies, to distribute talks to the people and, if necessary, to repress it so as to stop the great changes that the world and our country need so that life, a dignified, sustainable and solid life, is possible. They prefer to rescue capital and the system of power than to rescue people, communities and the Earth. And while the most progressive government of history is beginning to show us its limits and intentions in this crisis as well. Its reconstruction, agreed with the right of reaction, does not derogate from labour reform, does not include the imposition of great fortunes, does not derogate from the law of bite and foreign law, does not guarantee the right to housing, continues to cover up the corruption of the monarchy, continues with the negotiation of death with the sale of arms, does not stop repression, re-centralizes in an authoritative way and does not offer any real solution to the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. To be the most progressive of the story, it's not bad – it's not bad. And we think, with firmness and conviction, that another world is possible and that some other Catalan countries are possible and necessary: free, just, solidarity and ecological. A territory where life can be victualled in freedom. A territory of rights, of human solidarity and planetary. That is why today we want to talk about the need and the proposal of a great transformation, not of reconstruction, but of a great transformation, of a project and of a national salvation programme, before the economic, social and political crisis, which today expresses the common sense of many people, at our home and in the world, and which, therefore, should also be the object of a united compromise and of great national agreements. We have said it and we repeat it: it is up to us to sort between capital or life, and you know and you know that the exit to this crisis will be feminist, will be socialist, will be ecological and will be independent or will not be. From this paradigm, they also take this crisis as an opportunity to bring new solutions and not repeat mistakes of the past, betting to start the path to this great transformation, we propose: a universal basic income, prohibition of accompaniments, derogation from labor reforms, remuneration for family reconciliation and social and economic recognition of all the tasks of cures, mostly realized for women. Destination of business benefits and financing to finance the response to the crisis, Covid tax and a new fair and redistributive taxation. Public banking, sovereignty over all the basic resources for life, the common benefits and infrastructures of our country. Reversing all the details into sanitation, education, social services and culture. Ownership and public management of all – of all – health resources, education, social services and cures. Stop and reverse all projects and actions on the territory that contribute to the climate change. Transition to a green economy based on public services, cures and the social and solidary economy. Universal right to housing, basic sub-administrations and healthy nutrition. Regulation of all people who have migrated. And civil and democratic rights, before the repressive and authoritarian drift, and, among them, self-determination and sovereignty. These proposals will be reflected in our resolution proposals. Honestly, it's not arrogance, we think they connect with the common sense of many people in this country, in view of what this crisis has been about. We ask you for your support and a unity effort around these proposals. And, finally, I want to end up talking about dialy. Today, despite the fact that the potential of October 1 and October 3 is still alive, as the firm will of a large part of the people of this country to exercise self-determination and to relax independence, independence is also intact – let us admit it – political independence is not on the rise, and the Spanish State is also not at the disposal of a democratic solution. The situation of regulatory exceptionality that has prevailed during the period of the state of alarm has allowed the approval of various decrees and resolutions both of the Government of the State and of the governments of the autonomous administrations of the Catalan Countries, which, all the way out to popular requests, have served to further support the economic interests of certain oligarchies and power centers, against the majority of the popular and working people. Taking advantage of the current context of a new eco-social crisis, which has been accelerated by the situation of health emergencies, the Government of the State has sharpened the recent offensive by encouraging the recovery of competitions, including militarizing the streets and restricting even more, if possible, the legitimate right to protest and political dissent. On the other hand, the Government of the Generality, far from facing the State's recent offensive and putting at the centre the political agenda of defence and the exercise of the right to self-determination, has chosen to call for the return of skills and resources to the State and the European Union in order to continue to provide public resources in favour of the private sector and to show a situation of instability that is not real. The dialog table, reconstruction commissions, general and state assemblies, are a landing ground for a new fit in the Spanish State based on a new fiscal pact and debate on competitions. The concept of reconstruction based on a possible strategy is winning story and protagonistship. While reconstruction refers to leaving things as they are, the concept of transformation, which we defend and propose, means rethinking the social, cultural and economic relations of the environment. As for independence, it accords us and shared strategies and regains the capacity to lead great national agreements, which enclose the combination of sovereignism and progressive forces for such a long-term transformation, this rescue of the people of our country before the crisis. A rescue that can be started now, even with the self-government that our institutions have, but that we can only culminate with full sovereignty and, therefore, exercise self-determination and complete independence. The dialogue with the State and the international community will only be carried out by this effective and real sovereignty, by a new phase of conflict, in institutions and in the streets. And now the gravity of the crisis makes this strike more urgent than ever and more necessary than ever. Capital or life. And if they steal our lives, the answer is fight; for the rights of all, for all the rights. Because we want this crisis to be paid for by the capital and we want to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.22.0	Thank you, Vice President. President, Member, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, the first words are necessary record for the people who have left us during this health crisis. A few words also for the sick, for the people who have passed the disease, for the families and for the friend. And thank all the people who have helped us, who have helped society to overcome this crisis situation at this very low and important time. And, in order not to tell absolutely all those people, they will allow me to do so from those who have been on the first line, as has been the health personnel, until they have been on the last line, for example those who have made distributors to bring us basic sub-administrations to the homes of the people who were confined. This is a plethora to assess the government's performance during this pandemic, and the truth is that we've been following the government's action before this health crisis, and now also economic and social, we've already had a little idea, but today I think the President has just pointed it out: for the Government of the Generality, for the President of the Generality, the Royal decree of state of alarm has gone as well as well, they've gone to sea well, hasn't it? It was the perfect argument not just to try not to take on their responsibilities, but to end up blaming Spain for all the evils. Ara Espanya no longer only steals from us, but kills us more. And many times I think that you really don't want it, independence: you wouldn't have to take responsibility for your incompetences. And I am convinced that you think that against Spain is seen much better than what you would do without Spain; you live much better against Spain than what you would do without Spain. I'm sure the Government of Spain has done bad things – it has done it – but we're here to talk about what you did or didn't do. And in this sense they will allow me to remind you that the first weeks of the crisis situation our parliamentary group was the first to send you a bunch of proposals, to the Presidency of the Generality, we distributed a bunch of them, sixty proposals to deal with the crisis situation that we had in front of us, both from the health point of view and from the economic point of view, from the industrial point of view, from the point of view of the teaching... from the very different points of view, right? And, therefore, to express this willingness to work together in a situation that we understand and that we understand to be difficult, a willingness to work together sincerely to try to get out of the best possible way of this situation, and you gave us the answer, in most of them, "We are already doing it or we can't do it, etc., aren't we? But to put us in a little position, when you're feverish... you're quoted from a few counselors, in some cases from the Health Counselor or other people, aren't you? But they said to the fever: "There must be no alarm or problem of public salvation. And someone adds: "The flu is much harder than the coronavirus. Also the month of February, when the Mobile was cancelled, this was due to the epidemic of why the misinformation escapes, words of the president, who then, on a press wheel with international pressure, was attributed, a few months later was attributed to the decision of the suspension of the cancellation of the Mobile, eh? When he was extremely suspicious when that happened. On March 9, for example, they also said: "Schools and universities must not be closed, as other communities have done. Four days later they announced the closure of schools, institutes and universities. This, yes, of the authors of "we want total confinement or of "if we are independent, we have been confined fifteen days before, on March 12, at the same time that they announce the closure of the schools, they say: "There is no measure of confinement or isolation of the children at home. I mean, we're blocking the schools, but the kids, textually, these kids and these couples, can go to the park. Or, for example, there were schools, institutes and universities, but they left bars, restaurants and open discos. Then, on March 19, in a BBC interview with the president, he said: "It is that the Government of Spain does not want to confine the people – and we carried five closed days, right? –, « The Government of Spain does not want to confine the people. But, besides, you, those of total confinement, were not able to stop the public works of the Generality until eight days later; until March 27 they did not completely stop the public works of the Generality. Is it possible to make more ridiculous seeing conspiracies or drinking with the sending or sending announcement of 1,714,000 masks? Or criticise the color of the word virus in a diari ad, the groc colour of the word virus in a diaris ad? Or, when you still didn't see what was going on in the residences, deny the army's help, the Emergencies Military Unit, to disinfect them? Put through the bell hospital? Yeah, yeah, it's gonna keep the EUM from disinfecting a few residences. Put through the bell hospital? Sabadell, Mounted for the Army, or Sant Andreu de la Barca, Mounted for Civil Guard, who never got into operation? I, two days after laying all these crossings, buy twenty-seven inflatables to serve with the bell hospital that they didn't even get to mount. How do these decisions prevent the hospitalization of malalts at home or in residences? How does the house prevent the outbreak of country hospitals with the maintenance of ills at home or in residences? The Health Advisor Council told you the month of May that it needed to correct, precisely, the absence of protocols to treat residents in hospitals. The Health Adviser also criticizes the limitation of therapeutic effort to large people – limitation of therapeutic effort to large people. Can you imagine the impotence and anger that many families of large hospitalised or resident people felt that there was an instruction to limit the therapeutic effort to people over seventy-five years old? And then they come to talk about universal sanitation? Mr.Iceta said: "The universality of sanitation ends when it reaches the residences. And also with age; it is seen that, also with age, sanitation ceases to be universal. On the residences, we will have an opportunity to expand it in relation to the commission of inquiry that we also have open during the very specific Ple. But there are some elements. It is symptomatic of the change in the department: from Work, Social Affairs and Families to Health, and especially astounding..., I said in the validation of the decree of 14 May, with which the Department of Health was authorized to make a few of the people institutionalized in residences and their health data. Oh, man! When a person enters a residence, we lose the health trail, as if you have disappeared from our society. That, quite frankly... it's been tearing us apart to get to know this situation. Advisors to the president, advisors to the Health Department, advisors who disagree with each other, test program..., 170,000 texts immediately; past one_month, 32 – no 32,000: 32 –, of 170,000 that had been announced. From the legislative point of view, twenty-three laws that have been amended have been amended; of the same laws, previous laws were amended. Related measures of absolutely divergent areas, neither negotiated with groups, nor spoken – nor spoken – with parliamentary groups. And no one's got a problem with it. Punctual, but no problem was raised, and validation was given to all the laws. In short, president, the feeling is that during this pandemic the government acted like a chicken without a head. Now we're in front of the reptiles. First, and immediately, to ensure that before the possibility of rebounds is available the necessary materials, personal protective equipment for professionals who may be in contact with infected people – health care, residences, safety... – sufficient tests, performance protocols, especially residences – above all residences – and to prevent anyone from recovering the health care they deserve, neither for life nor for location in a residence. The second, obviously the most important, is the revival, which, in our view, must be based on three axes: more social policy, more economic drive and less process. If I may, I will condense everything into three words: hello, work and coexistence. Hello: more social policy. The field of salvation, phonental – phonental. Some other Member also said: Catalonia is the only community that has not yet recovered the health expenditure of the year 2010. Six years of economic growth – six years of economic growth – four years without assumptions. And that's what's stopped the health care expense from being recovered. They can look for culprits wherever they are, but the reality is this: six years of economic growth, four years without assumptions. And the reinforcement of primary care is essential. And, fix's, if it's that we practically match absolutely all groups in exactly the same elements! Reinforce primary care, which should be the real one in charge of Covid's vigilance. And you go and you charge it to a company, and it's spent three times more – three times more – than you say you're going to improve primary care, with only one contract; yes, with only one contract. Now it is more essential than ever – more essential than ever – a shoal to address the situation of the waiting lists. We have published the May data; they haven't ingested, the waiting lists haven't grown, there aren't any more people in waiting lists. No, no, no. What's going on is that time has widened. How much? More than two months. May data, two_months: April, May and 15 days of March; seventy days that the waiting lists have increased. They have not increased, because new people have not entered the waiting lists, but time has obviously widened. As a minimum – as a minimum, as a minimum – we need to recover the situation we had before this crisis, and with that we would give ourselves in satisfaction. Satisfied in this situation, but obviously we will never give ourselves up for satisfaction while there are so many people on waiting lists. Obviously, we need to rethink the model of residences in the medium term, as quickly as possible, based on the bad experience gained. It cannot be that the residents are left out of the health care system and remain, in some way, even on the vast margin of society. Impulse the economy. All the economic sectors have remained more or less touched, all of them. The industry, of course, the industry, and if we add to Nissan's case, then it has also remained a little more touched or a little more touched if that materializes. But tourism and trade have been all over this state of alarm... practically not: they've been completely zero, plus physical commerce, urban commerce, the one we've always said we need to protect. And, on the other hand, the one that flew, logically, by the circumstances, is electronic commerce, competitors. And that will bring us consequences. It's about... well, we're talking about autonomies, but, gee, 20-30 percent of the trade is at risk, according to the fonts, before the year is over. That's very important figures. But we also do not want to lose sight of small economic sectors which, with their particularities, require a little attention from the government. I give an example that has been addressed, that of the centres of colonies and summer couples, that have very focused their activity during these months and that, effectively, therefore, they are in a situation in which they have been able, as at least, to restart their activity under conditions. But there have been others or there have been others that have still remained in doubt, a little in the air. I quote often marching, firari..., and we passed Sant Joan, but the pyrotechnics also went badly. And when we give you less process, you understand that very well. I illustrate them with an example: instead of retailing Feder funds for joints and research centres, retailing in political delegations to foreign countries, retailing in diplomas and companies. Hi, work and cohabitation. On all these objectives, President, I can count on us. The problem is that you, who have a vision, have shown yourself to have a limited vision of Catalan society, you don't want to count on anyone who isn't one of them. Create a commission to develop the economic and social recovery plan, among advisors [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish, President – between advisors. But until now it has not taken into account social workers, it has not taken into account parliamentary groups. It seems, gives more the impression that what you want to reactivate is the same government, which, I remember, "a government broken and a legislature without political recourse. Strict words from the 29th genera. President, trust doesn't inspire us, and the job we have for the front is a lot and a lot of bean. We ask you to make the decision that it would be the most uncertain of your entire legislature: call elections as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Ms Marta Vilalta, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.24.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We're not doing what we're doing from now on. It's how we imagined it. In fact, the Covid-19 pandemic has captivated our lives, and today, one more time, I can't start – and so have the rest of the parliamentary groups – this intervention without remembering all the people who have unfortunately died because of this disease, the people who have fought, too, and left, against the Covid-19, because along with figures, numbers, they are people we will have to know how to support, that we will also know how to accompany their families in this strange world. We want to remember and give thanks also to all those socio-health professionals, and also to emergencies, who have donated everything to save lives and to avoid the collapse of the health system. Also the essential professionals, in this case not only of the health field, but also those who were on the front line: the field of cleanness, food, journalists, transporters, among others. To the families, and to the teachers, to the children and young people of this country, who have made hands and hands these days, these last weeks and months, and have had to reinvent themselves before this complex situation. Also remember and claim those who have had to lower the blind, many of the people who are still patenting ERTOS or who have even lost their lives, many of whom women, in the realm of cures, who have been invisible, who were, who still are, and who are suffering from double and triple crises. Also the ones who stayed home to help us protect everyone and everyone. And we also want to give thanks here today, in this House, to the people who have donated their faces, to the members of this government, to the mayors and mayors and to many of the political leaders, therefore, who have been at the side of the people to try to overcome a situation, as I said, complex. Certainly, these months have been tough, yet they are. But that, I mean, it's not over yet. It is a health crisis, a humanitarian crisis that has already evolved and it is a social crisis, also an economic crisis. Now we don't just have to prepare ourselves for if you see a rebound, which we have to do, effectively, but it's up to us to rebuild the country. We have resisted, we are resisting, and now is the time to be able to rebuild. And that is why we are here, in this monographic plenary, working specifically for reconstruction, to lay the foundations that from this Parliament, therefore, they will be mandated to the Government and, from the Government, to be able to lead all the measures that are needed to help the citizenry and to get us out of it. We also want to take advantage of it to make a call to hope at this time. Because for a lot of complexity that we live in, for a lot of times of complexity and problems, of uncertain times, always – always – at these times of complexity, there are always times of opportunity too. And that's why we want to take advantage of these opportunities. It is our responsibility to see them and to apply them. We want to take advantage of the opportunity to transform that ill-named 'new normality, which we do not like, and to be able to build, therefore, a new reality. We won't get tired of saying this: we'll just get out of here betting for the people. And that's why we need to change the receipts that we've known so far. We will not apply erroneous proposals, as was already done in 2008 or in other stages. We need to learn from the past and be able to look forward. And in this look forward, we are already moving them forward, we believe that it has been rebuilt by us that we must be able to build the foundations of the Catalan Republic. He told them not to use the old receipts, but to take note of what we have experienced before or what has happened before, because many times it serves as a learning tool. The president of our party, Mr Oriol Junqueras, as you know, is in prison for his political commitment, but today I think of him above all in his face as a teacher and as a historian, because it is above all the story he teaches us as well as we need to be able to keep moving forward. The Covid-19 pandemic is the third great global shock of the 21st century; that's what we read. The first was the one that provoked the storms of '11 September 2001 in the United States. That great shock has been translated into detail into civil rights, which have actually reached some until our days. Taking advantage of the need to plant against a real threat, as terrorism was, as terrorism, governments of the world, and democratic governments too, took advantage of the adventurousness to restrict civil and political freedoms, far more so, rationally, than I could demand even that threat. The second great global shock of this 21st century was the great recession overturned by the 2008 financial crisis. Again, they took advantage of the adversity to detail rights; in this case, not so much civil rights, as above all social rights. And while banks were being rescued with public money, the popular classes were paying the bill through conservative labor reforms, which actually still existed, or paying it with retail public services or with rising back taxes, and they were therefore condemning these people in the popular classes to a structural poor. The effects and consequences of that crisis have come to our day, and have made greater choice of inequalities. At that time, the receipts of the governments of the State, if we look at it, so, here by the way, the receipts of the Government of the State served to detail and to refocus. In 2008, the government of the PSOE, first, and of the PP, then, and with the collaboration of the first government of President Mas here in Catalonia, also promoted an adjustment for detail and privatization. That's why today we can't follow the same receipts, we can't, in fact, fall into the same mistakes. And we'll tell you the times you need to: don't detail or refocus. This pandemic, which, as I said, is the third great global shock of the 21st century, we see as a threat to continue deepening in the regression of rights, both civil and political, and social. And besides, in this march of return, always, all these setbacks are accompanied by a dogma, which is that there is no alternative, when in reality the crises have often assumed that they have allowed us to progress. Therefore, today we say that there is an alternative; and so there is an alternative. Against the rise of authoritarianism that we have experienced, we are betting for more democracy and more freedom. Against the social rights detailings that have been made at other times or that may be timed to do, we are betting for more redistribution of wealth, for more enhancement of the welfare state and to ensure, therefore, equity and equal opportunities. Against the strength of state nationalisms that some preach, we bet by more internationalism and to equip ourselves with all the tools to get out of the crisis, and that means for the exercise of the right to self-determination and to become a state, too, with the vocation of international compromise. If we land this analysis of the global context of we come in the case of Catalonia, here in our country, to the successive economic and social crises that we have experienced in recent years, we must also add to the political conflict that exists in Catalonia, between Catalonia and the State, so that we can consolidate or build a Catalan republic. The independence project – we have seen it over the last few years – has grown steadily over the last few years, as you said, and especially over the last decade; this, in fact, has not begun two years ago, as some think, but it goes from one month to another, because we are convinced that we will continue to grow, that the independence project will continue to grow, because it is the only viable project to guarantee a future in Catalonia. Just now that the wish for anniversaries has been fulfilled, unfortunately, of the feeling against the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, then, that movement has been the finding that the only project of the future for our country is the independence of Catalonia, which in the Spanish State knows that there is no future. And, if the feeling of the State, as I said two years ago, was the first step not to return for many people, the U of October, just now, therefore, two years ago and a half ago, and the reaction, above all, of the Spanish State to the citizenry, against the citizenship that we wanted to decide our future, and, therefore, the feeling also, later, lasts against the Government of the Generality and against the President of the Parliament, Carme Forcadell, this may be this second moment, it was this second moment. And now it's up to us to continue with this work, to continue the work. We know that this process of social and economic reconstruction of the country can only be complete, it will only be possible and defined if we also count on political reconstruction and if we count on all the tools of a state. What is clear, as I said, is that we have found that the tools we currently have are not enough to fight the crisis, the crises and their consequences. We have also come back to the fact that the Spanish State has been ineffective – and I will mention it later – and that the European Union has also not been on the rise when we needed to have comprehensive and clear guidelines for citizens. Just the solutions that we are now beginning to deploy must respond to all these crises, also to the democratic crisis, and also to the institutional crisis. In this crisis, therefore, that we are living now, we are all after on the march, and I believe that it is also appropriate to remember and admit it: we have not learned about the march, as we have come to find ourselves with reality. And managing it is difficult, and it's complicated for everyone, and we also want to recognize it, and we don't see it. But we also say, once in a while, that there are ways and means to manage this crisis and that there are ways to explain and to do it differently. And in these ways, so, we've seen how the state government chose to re-centralize, militarize, restrict phone rights. We gave them to us, and we posted them for this responsibility, for this coordination, for this administrative collaboration, and they responded to us with the sole command, with the superministers – despite the fact that the Minister now spokeswoman of the Government of the State wants to deny it – with re-centralizations as well of the purchase of material – despite the fact that before, therefore, Mr. Miquel Iceta also wanted to deny it – and they have returned to us with misimpositions and constant improvisations in this management. It took them a few weeks to realize that the management of a health pandemic, of the social uncertainty associated with it, or of the reason why it could emerge and the loneliness of many people living in confinement did not pass, the management could not go through to fill the press wheels with galons and military, or to make marching campaigns, but it went through to explain a lot, because the citizenry understood what was going on – as before we could also comment on Councillor Vergés – to do pedagogy, to be very clear and to explain a lot. And so we have to keep doing it. What it doesn't mean, MPs and MPs of the PSC or MP of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, is that you demand the Government of the Government of Catalonia that you don't ask the Government of the State, when it has all the tools and most of the resources to do it. And let me set an example, that there would be many, to put one, that is current: yesterday, to the committee here to the Parliament of..., fi, on the subject of Nissan, the deputy of the PSC asked 20_million for active employment policies, when precisely since the Government of the State these last months, therefore, they have made a spread of 215_million in active employment policies that were to come to the Generality. You're absurd! - It's absurd. We are not, therefore, asking Catalonia for what they are refusing to do in the Government of the State, despite having its powers and resources. And at times we also want to recognize, because it has been so, that we have also had ourselves, in the Republican Left, alongside the Congress of Deputies when this has been used to move forward, when the decisions that have been taken are good, we believe, for the citizens of Catalonia, when we have succeeded in the passing of things: it was the end of the state of alarm, it was the return of the powers to Catalonia – that, of course, we should never have to go away from it... This is the attitude that we want to have from our parliamentary group, from the Republican Left: with responsibility, trying to be useful for citizenship, thinking about people and in the country, using the force of our votes in the service of the citizen. But they also looked at us, and they also looked at us at the Congress of Deputies when the process had taken place in Catalan institutions. This same responsibility is what makes us demanding and critical and, above all, loyal to the Catalan institutions and loyal to the people of Catalonia. All in all, the crisis of the coronavirus has shown cruelly that the Spanish State does not serve us, that it is a state that is not useful for the citizens of this country and neither is it able to cope with global challenges. And not only that: all the measures that could have implied a substantial change in the economic and social model of the IBEX 35 have been discarded by the Government of the State. The self-considered, in fact, more progressive government of history, and that we may not soon say the most disappointing government, has been unable to make an extraordinary regularization that you ensure that there is really no going back for those people who do not have papers; or the government, too, feminist has been unable to offer permissions for conciliation and child care, as we asked from the Republican Left; the government, too, has not? , of equality does not question a monarchy that wants to store corruptiles, that they are investigating Switzerland, or even now the Supreme, the monarchy that has wanted to serve the pandemic to try to express itself, precisely, of all its corruptiles and of all its ills practiced. We will not fail to denounce this situation, we will not fail to raise our eyes or demand that the monarchy also be politically investigated, as our companions in the Congress have done, despite being censored, certainly, every time they try. And neither do we forget that precisely this monarchy, through the king, therefore, is who made that infamous speech on October 3. To rebuild, rebuild again, and transform is also to fall the vices of the 78th Regime, but heir to the Francoism and who has armed with impunity a monarchy that, effectively, does not represent us. We want a change, as I said, in the way I do, because, as I said, there are ways and ways. And the Government of Catalonia, we also want to recognize it here, in its parliamentary office, has not taken away its responsibility at such a complicated time, despite the fact that it has had to manage this situation, as before in the morning, so it said the same President of the Generality, with the hands tied to the skeleton. We want to put in value the ingent – ingent – task of the Government of the Generality, as well as, as I said before, the rest of the country's political leaders, mayors and mayors who have been on the front line and who have given their faces and who have walked in such complicated times as the ones we have been living and the ones we still live. You, President, said in the morning: "Not content or satisfied, but yes, we also add – you did too – with the conviction that everything was done and impossible to get the country out of the way and to help people at this very complicated time. And what's happened, more than that? Let me emphasize: from the values of transparency, from proximity, from knowledge of cause, from expert and from rigour; explaining much, as before, making citizenship responsible, and not trying to impose por, prohibition or imposition, as the Government of the State has done. And, obviously, a government, that of the Generality, which has taken decisions from the first minute, from the first moment, so that it can try to manage in the best way this situation: adapt the health system to face the pandemic, triple the ICUs, create temporary hospitals, health hotels to ensure confinement, mobilize more than three thousand health professionals and ensure that, moreover, these professionals are equipped with the necessary material, through purchases from the Generality of Catalonia, because, certainly, therefore, the material that had been promised had not arrived or was prevented until all could be bought. And also strengthen primary care, as has been done and as will be done, to ensure, therefore, that you are prepared to follow up on all symptomatic cases, and also for all that is to come. Work also emotional well-being through, therefore, various applications; because emotional well-being is also very important at these times of complexity. It has acted where, despite having much more resources available to it, so the performance of the State has been insufficient. I think, for example, of the two thousand euros that have been able to be donated until the start of the 7.5 million euros, that have benefited more than four thousand people, or the 59 million euros also for a plan of work for the occupation during and after the health crisis. The Generalitat promoted a board of labour relations to give recommendations in the return to work, a question that was unable to do, for example, the Government of the Spanish State. While we see how the authoritarianism of the Supreme Court turned out to be detrimental to the rights of the imprisoned population, of all – despite the fact that they only thought of political prisoners, but they were detrimental to the entire prison population of Catalonia – the Generality which it did was to guarantee the rights of the prisoners of Catalonia. Videoconferencing was enhanced to replace the vis-à-vis, and it wanted to reduce the prison population to a minimum in order to limit the risk of contagion. While the large embassies were inoperative, we saw as the Department of Foreign Affairs, we saw how the Department of Foreign Affairs here in Catalonia set up an Emergencies Committee for the return of Catalans to the outside; more than two hundred Catalans and Catalans attached to a council that was opened the twenty-four hours of the day, seven days a week, to ensure that they could return to their Catalan and Catalan homes that were once out of the world. The Government of Catalonia has acted quickly by handing out the money slots to cover the fooder scholarships, in order to continue to guarantee these fooder scholarships for more than 142,000 beneficiaries. Catalonia has been a pioneer, in this sense, in the Spanish State, also, therefore, to open the schools. And we wanted to put education in the centre, effectively, by handing out first these devices, thousands and thousands of devices connected to the Internet to the most vulnerable students, and betting also on the opening of schools when health conditions so allowed, they are learning essential lessons that must serve us to guarantee, now in September, an opening of schools with certainty, with this campaign, with this maximum idea of "open schools, secure schools, trying to guarantee stable, face-to-face groups, guaranteeing the right to education for everyone and doing so with the necessary security measures. Because we know that the school has this social function, it has this equitable function and guarantee of equal opportunities that we cannot and do not want to give up. Some schools that are, of course, now open, in this case, also, therefore, to take on the commitment to ensure education and, above all, also to continue to serve and respond to the youngest people in our country. Residents are involved, yes, despite being denied, when it was necessary, in coordination since the 1st minute between the Department of Health and the Department of Social Affairs, to protect the most vulnerable people. Indeed, President and Vice President, Councillors, Catalonia has been marking the way, always anticipating the decisions that, after the first refusal that we found on the part of the Spanish State, they ended up unfolding, therefore, from the State. And, therefore, I said, effectively, yes, there is another way to manage the epidemic, it can be managed differently. As I was saying, we haven't started the situation yet. The scars of the Covid-19 are still open, some personal, social and economic scars, and surely, therefore, will take a long time to heal. Just this complex situation needs more reversal than ever. And it is absolutely essential, therefore, that we have the share that comes close to the resources coming from the reconstruction plan at European level, which we estimate at least 30,000_million euros for Catalonia, of the 750,000 that have been announced by Europe. And we want it managed directly, to make sure that these moneys, therefore, are going to go, because if they speak for the State as well we can find that they are going to save media groups or that they are going, therefore, to institutional advertising or that they are going to rescue the racetrack of Sarsuela or that they are going to tanks and, therefore, to the army, when that is exactly what it is that has to avoid, and it has to go to people. It is not a matter of having the resources we want, thinking, therefore, that the resources are infinite, as Mr.Iceta said before and as the PSC said, but it is a matter of being able to manage the resources we generate, receive or need the citizenship of Catalonia. This is the time, therefore, to ensure that Catalonia has the resources that are close to it. This is not the time to call for a bailout, but we need to be able to demand from Europe and the State the resources that come to us, according to the country's efforts and according to the current needs. A rescue would be pa for today, but wins for tomorrow. The resources are there and, therefore, it is necessary to get them to who they most need, European foundations, state foundations, re-establishment of the presupposition and of the necessary fiscal reforms. During these months, I said before, we had to resist. So now it's urgent that the government... that we can guarantee, so... that we have to be able to guarantee a living thing, and now, that we're already in the dam phase, that we can still resist, but above all it's time to rebuild. We have to resist rebuilding and we have to move from reconstruction to the Catalan Republic. We're very clear about this. From the Republican Left, from the Republican Group we are very clear: the reconstruction agenda cannot be heard without the agenda to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and the State. Moreover, any reconstruction of our country will be incomplete if we do not have all the tools and resources of a state. And not only that: it's not neutral either, it's not neutral with which politicians come out of this situation, from this crisis today, or who leads it. Before those who claim to take advantage of the moment to back up the 78th Regime, we choose to build the foundations of the Catalan Republic, guarantee of rights and freedoms; a progressive exit, a feminist exit, a exit, therefore, emancipating for the citizenship of our country. In other words, the current moment could be a second transition to falsify the regime again or it could be a turning point for social transformation that brings us quickly closer to the Catalan Republic. And we're very clear about each other, which we have to sort out. Now is the time to be as ambitious and rebuild, also laying the foundations of what we want the new state to be; the new state, the Catalan republic. This is our commitment, and this is our contract with the citizenry of Catalonia. That is why we have made a republican proposal for the reconstruction that passes, therefore, through seven priority axes and that defines this republican agenda for reconstruction and that is also the republican agenda for the construction of the Catalan Republic, as I say, of rights and freedoms, of equal opportunities. Some measures based on the principles of republicanism, social justice, ecological and feminist values, and also on public integrity, and which connect more and more, connect this republican agenda that we believe now needs the country, also with the 2030 Global Agenda, with which we are firmly committed. And that did not hurt MP Albiach: it is a country agenda that we have from the Republican Left to the service of the country and that we have responsibilities there – Parliament, Congress, Senate, European Parliament, to the assemblies, and also from the Government of the Generality – we want to push. I'll detail this agenda very quickly. A first example, which is to reactivate the productive economy with a reconstruction plan in order to be able to share the rich priority of strategic sectors, such as agri-food, and it is essential to guarantee and work towards food sovereignty. Also a strategic sector, the industry, which will have to rethink, based on green energy and digitalisation. Research, audiovisual sector, energy transition, are other strategic sectors. Also the realm of cures, obviously, let me say that today's position in value, because precisely the crisis has made it more obvious that never were the essential sectors, and precisely those sectors that maintained, that sustained life. An economic revival that actually has to take the gender perspective; if not, we would be making a mistake again. One_second, strengthen the welfare state so that everyone has the basic needs guaranteed, with an alliance for the universal public health system. And we encourage the counselor, therefore, who can lead it, with integration, yes, social and health care, which is more urgent than ever, with a welfare state that protects our great people, that protects also the people who are migrated; so we will follow, therefore, demanding this demand of their regularization for those who do not have papers. A welfare state that must strengthen education and that is already being done, in fact, with this willingness to open schools, secure schools, and we also celebrate the announcement of more resources and more teachers for the new course. A welfare state that we also want you to think about young people, who are the first to experience this current crisis, but it is that the sequels of the previous crisis have already accumulated. A welfare state, therefore, that we want it to be converted into the Catalan welfare state. A third line, to reconsider work with life, with a more rational and kinder use of time, with this social pact for teletreball, guaranteeing the rights, and with the digitization of the territory. It's one of the areas where we have more learning and more work to do now, and it's at our hands that we can do it. Improve the quality of life with this willingness to improve daily life, co-responsibility and reconciliation. A fourth is that we defend, which refers to being able to reconnect the territory: a country connected, balanced, in the network, with guarantee of equality of opportunity is visqui where it is visqui of the territory. And that's why it's important to have the power and empowerment of the joints, which can have more resources and which can, therefore, have more decision-making capacity – we will continue to claim that they can allocate and manage their surplus – but it's also essential for this cohesive country to work in mobility and housing. One-five is, the bet for renewables and zero residue, because we want to be the green capital of southern Europe, and we can't wait any longer. We are already on the right path with all the deployment of solar springs in the public buildings of the Generalitat, but we can also continue to advance with new legislation because we can deploy renewables with territorial criteria and with the municipalities and overcome the current mark so that we can learn about energy oligopolises and be self-sufficient. This is also a sectoral case, in this case, that it is to reactivate culture, with a support plan, already this late, to reactivate, therefore, participation in culture; help professionals as well, and reduce cultural VAT. It's all a statement of intent, because we understand culture as a lever of transformation that helps generate critical, cult, and compromised citizens. And related to culture, so, also sport, to its social and cohesive function that it wants and requires our society. And finally a set: we have to build the Catalan republic of rights and freedoms. And it is that all these axes – reactivating the productive economy, strengthening the state of well-being, reconciling work with life, reconnecting the territory, renewing energies and achieving zero residue, reactivating culture – must be the basis of immediate reconstruction, but they must also be the foundations of the Catalan Republic. This is our proposal, the Republican Left proposal. We must take advantage of the opportunity to mark the path of the future to put the foundations of Republican Catalonia. We want a free country, a net country, a just country, and that's only possible in a republic. And we need to rebuild this country now, and this is only possible with the achievement of a state. And we also want this reconstruction to enclose the resolution of the conflict, which we know is going to appeal to the great consensus of the country, to the great consensus as the exercise of the right to self-determination and amnesty, because this general cause against independence in the form of repression has come to an end. A way to the Catalan Republic that from the Republican Left we bet that it is possible to go through the way in full, accumulating forces, adding to it every time more people and more strength and preparing us at all levels: at the institutional level, at the level of mobilization and road, at the international level, at the sectoral, social and business level, and also at the political level, without giving up any space of power or influence. The head. And that's why we don't want to give up the dialog, or we want to give up the negotiation to force the State to move. The negotiating table we think is essential, together with everything we need to work on. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] It's over, President. But it is not us who will give up no space of power or no space of decision in order to build the future that the citizens of our country deserve and need. So now is the time to go from resisting to rebuilding. It is time to move from this reconstruction to the Catalan Republic, which we know is the only alternative to guarantee the welfare, progress and equality of opportunity for the citizens of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is the return of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.26.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Very honorable President of the Generality, advisors, advisors, deputies and deputies... President, it's all changed. Counselors and advisors, it's all clear. MPs and MPs, it's still speeding up. He's changed our lives, this crisis. The coronavirus pandemic has drawn the rawest face of human fragility, because it has struck us all, without exception. All of us here know someone who has left us, someone who is at the ICU or who has been at the ICU, someone who has lost the job or someone who is very hard to open the blind again. In few weeks, life has changed us all. The first was to be a few days; then, a few weeks and, finally, they became eternal months. A time that, in fact, we're still alive and that, in a sense of doubt, we'll remember all our lives. The coronavirus has been the unexpected and unwanted protagonist of our lives in the last few months. In the best of cases, if we can qualify it that way, it meant a four-pair recluse to the cases in each case, for a few months that have become an eternality. Isolated from the embraces of peers, children, opinions or Germans; deprived of finding with friends; deprived of cultural and oci activities, and forced to work or study through digital platforms. Undoubtedly, a hopeless, distressing, inexcusable situation that we wish is not repeated again. But the situation I have just described describes the lesser evil, because, saddenedly, we have witnessed a still more desolating panorama. Many people, who have had to stop their work activity or, directly, have gone unworked, who have had to live this confinement with the confusion, uncertainty, fear and fear that has caused the difficulty or impossibility of being able to cover the most basic needs: the purchase of food, the payment of the logger, the payment of mortgages, the sub-administrations... And that they suffer for the education of their children or that they suffer for their work and the future of their place of work. Now, the most infaust and disastrous scenario has been marked by the more than twelve thousand Catalans and Catalans who have lost their lives because of the virus and who, on many occasions, have died in a sad solitude, without being able to take on their loved ones. A sifra demolition, to which we must add the more than seventy thousand citizens of our country who have suffered or suffer from the disease. In short, a dramatic balance, which would still have been more turbulent without dedication and without the delivery of health professionals, who have worked for weeks, without rest; who have doubled turns; and who, often, in many primary care centres, have had to take care of many families; in many hospitals, at the limit of the col·lapse, with units of saturated intensive care, with scarcity of resources and without sanitary material. We'll never be able to thank them enough. They're the real heroes and heroes of these months and this real evil. Also, the magnitude of the health tragedy has led to an economic and social crisis, with consequences that are already tangible and perceptible. In Catalonia, there are almost 500,000 people at the time and more than 600,000 workers who find themselves in an ERTO situation; that is, more than a million Catalans and Catalans who find themselves in some situation of total or partial unemployment. A conjuncture that frames itself in a supplication, in certain sectors that determine the economy of our country, such as trade and tourism, which have, in some cases, been subject to absolute paralysis. For example, the trade sector, which accounts for 16_percent of GDP and 15_percent of Catalonia's jobs, has suffered accumulated losses of more than 5,000_million euros. And now, a 30_per_cent of these trades doubt if they can push the blind again. Or the tourism sector, which accounts for 12_percent of GDP but 14_percent of the occupation, could fall by 53_percent of its activity this year and lose 15,000_million billing. It is not, it is expected a fall in GDP around two digits and that the rate of maturity is around 17_per_cent at the end of the year. They are the first symptoms of an economic crisis that we already have in the world and that results in a social emergence. The entities of the third sector, in a challenging situation; only two examples that can be evidenced: the Red Creu, in Catalonia, which has more than 220,000 people from the pandemic, or the Food Bank, which has helped more than sixty thousand people more and already exceeds the maximum history of the 2008 crisis. In short, we are experiencing this crisis; a gross synthesis of this health, economic and social crisis we are living in and, as I said, it has changed. Because about what we've seen so far will be the same. They can't follow patterns that are already archaic or patterns that have expired. They are moments of change; they are moments of decision-making; they are moments of responsibility; they are moments for politics. We can't fall into the parany of wanting to rebuild normal sails, but we need to build new realities. This monographic plethora, therefore, president, must serve to complete this democratic exercise of re-accounting on how the health emergency has been managed, but above all it must also allow us to ask ourselves about the future of our country after the pandemic and, in this line, Junts for Catalonia we want to focus this intervention on what it has done, what the Government of the Government of Catalonia is doing and what it wants to do. Three questions that coincide with the three stages of this crisis. To begin, President Torra, you have exposed in a very concrete and concise way what the Government has done to manage the emergence. But allow 'but I address them, in this sense, a follow-up of considerations that from Juntes for Catalonia we want to put in value the work of the Government. First of all, the Government of Catalonia responded with diligence and diligence; with diligence and diligence from the outbreak of the pandemic. They must remember that March 3rd already activated the Pla de protección civil de Catalunya, the Procicat, after the first confirmations of the contagious to Catalonia. Eight days later, he suspended activities of more than a thousand people, reduced the crowd to one-third of the closed rooms and banned public attendance at sporting events. The Sunday, March 12, decreed a lockdown of schools and universities and ordered the confinement of the Conca d'Odena. One day later, on March 13, President Tora asked for home confinement, border crossings, ports, airports and railways. They were courageous decisions, some of which were exaggerated, but with time it was shown that confinement was not a waste, but the best antidote to stop the virus, to reduce the infection and to avoid the collapse of the health system. This is what the government of President Torra did, while the government of Pedro Sánchez trigated fifteen days – fifteen days – to apply the measures already applied to Catalonia. It's too late and too late. Later, the Generalitat continued to convey proposals to Mr. Pedro Sánchez – the same President Torra, repeatedly – to articulate the stages of descalation, as was the need to establish time bands. Initially Sánchez opposed it, but finally the Spanish government ended up adopting them. Another time, late and bad. These are examples of such a synthesis that show the proactive attitude that the Government has maintained and the anticipatory ability that the President has had before a Spanish Government that has always acted late and poorly. Secondly, the management of the health crisis by the Generality was also characterized to follow at all times the advice of experts and international reference bodies, such as the World Health Organization. President Torra based the decision-making process solely on criteria of the health and scientific community. It did not take into account ideological biases or any other political derivative, it only made scientific evidence worth it. And thirdly, the Government cooperated and interacted with all the institutions, preached and practiced it, and the most obvious example is that the President of the Government of Catalonia participated in the conferences of the autonomous presidents, diumenge re diumenge, in which they celebrated during the state of alarm. Thus, the Generalitat also worked directly and coordinatedly with local administrations, which are a symbol of proximity in this crisis and also in tune sought complicity with civil society. We have always surpassed the reps of the collection when we went hand in hand with the associated fabric of our country. President Tora's government has been, and will be at the side of everyone without exclusions or exceptions. In short, the Government of Catalonia faced the health emergency with responsibility, with determination, firmness, rigour, solvency and effectiveness to complete a single purpose, very simple but very important, that is to save lives. The government was at the height of the circumstances at a time of extreme gravity. He acted with a sense of state, although he did not have any tools of state and placed the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans at the centre of all decisions. President Torra has acted in this crisis as president of the 7_million_i_mig Catalans and Catalans since the first moment. Now, does that mean everything went well? Or, say it another way, could some things have done better? Surely, yes. We can't remember that the administrations here and there weren't sufficiently prepared to manage the global pandemic. Therefore, now is the time to learn from these errors that can be made and extracted in relevant lessons to anticipate us to the future emergency scene. Without going any further, the next week, in this very hemisphere, we will have the opportunity to debate on the residences of large people and, in this sense, from Juntes to Catalunya, we have already warned them that we are defending full transparency. The Parliament must scrutinize the government's task with a single purpose and purpose and with the exclusion of improving the lives of all and every citizen of our country. In short, Pedro Sánchez went late and badly, placed the military at the head of the decision-making dam. He wanted to use the unit and single command drug and preferred to impose on cooperative accounts. On the other hand, a clearly opposed attitude of President Torra, who demonstrated the ability to anticipate – which some do not want to recognize –, who led the proposals that were then applied in the joint venture of the State, who listened solely and exclusively to the medical and scientific community and showed an attitude of cooperation with all institutions and with all civil society. Anyway, now is not the time to scratch our wounds, but to act responsibly. The perill of us sprouts will last until the vaccine or drug is obtained to fight it. The virus is there and, therefore, we need to know how to live there, in this seminormality in which we live from the wire of the state of alarm. This is why, at this stage, individual and collective responsibility must also be carried out on parallel paths. In the same way that during confinement the civic commitment of Catalans and Catalans was laudable, now we can't afford to relive the evil of these last months. It's at our hands, it's up to everyone; governance is up to everyone, institutions, civil society and citizens. In full harmony with the Government, since Junts for Catalonia, we consider that the character of this crisis forces structural decisions to be taken in the coming months, starting from two essential pillars: the first, safeguarding the state of welfare; and, the second, guaranteeing economic recovery. To safeguard the welfare state we guarantee everyone's basic needs, because we can't leave anyone behind. Blessing is the first bulwark of freedom and, therefore, of human condition. That is why we must also guarantee the economic recovery of our country. Catalonia is a country of small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed and small businesses; with a business structure made up of 95_percent of enterprises with fewer than two workers. Let us remain conscious and act accordingly. And, in this sense, from Juntes per Catalunya, we have worked on a plan of action with more than a hundred measures in social, economic, green agenda, public administration and foreign policy. Allow me to highlight the main proposals. The first is to maintain the support of workers, entrepreneurs, to overcome the crisis caused by the coronavirus; to promote a line of help in the recovery of the occupation to small and medium-sized enterprises that have plants with regulating dispatches and, at the same time, to encourage the new contract. Second: simplify the administrative procedures for enterprises, so as not to be dissuasive in the activity, and speed up the processing of the law for the facilitation of the economic activity, currently in parliamentary processing; it is more agility and less bureaucracy. Third: converting basic social services into social ICUs. To reorganise basic social services, in agreement with other administrations, and professionals in the sector, reinforcing them with more staff and resources. Fourth: structurally improving the Catalan health model – President Tora has demonstrated it several times. Strengthening and improving our health system by taking into account the knowledge of professionals, in accordance with the decision presented by the Metges College, with nurses and managers, with an additional investment of 5_million euros. There is an urgent need to provide more economic resources and better conditions for health professionals, and, at times, we must also provide social workers with progressive pay and rights in line with the health sector. Five: to ensure the sustainability of the education system, with an extension of educational concerts for the coming course for the purpose of establishing the centres. And in parallel, it is necessary to preserve the entire formal and non-formal education ecosystem, guaranteeing activity at schools in Bressol, schools of music and education in reading. Sisè: to promote a national habitation pact. It is necessary to initiate management to promote an agreement between the Generality, the municipalities, promoters and funded entities to promote the construction of twenty-thousand public-owned dwellings, and, if necessary, also private, in a short period of time. Set: Materialize a territorial pact for the benefit of renewable energy between urban and rural territories for the benefit of renewable energy sources. Vuitè: promoting commitment to culture. We cannot accept adjustments in the presuppost for Culture. Therefore, we must extend measures, create and liquidate all disciplines and trunks of the cultural chain, artists, creators and exhibitors, going through entities and companies. New: creating an extraordinary local cooperation fund, as the same councillor has repeatedly reiterated, to protect the local administration's financial sufficiency and ensure a balanced debt. The surplus and romants of the joints must be able to be used and at once compensated to avoid an escalation of the deficit. And want: to focus all the future investments of the Government of Catalonia under the same common denominator: sustainable investments, renewable energies that allow for better productivity, adapted to digitalization, tractors of other private investments, that improve the treatment of dependence, assessable in its usefulness. Together, these two measures are a small example of the hundreds of consensual measures with civil society entities that must be used to put the country on the march. Now, more than ever, it's time to be on the side of the city, because politics has only felt if it's useful to improve people's lives. I am convinced that this is the reason why many of us here in the Catalan Parliament are Members. We have to do politics with capitals, we can't waste time on sterilized stings. Among all, we need to work and agree on urgent responses that allow us to repair the social, economic damages caused by the coronavirus. Now, the paradigm shift originated by the coronavirus also forces us to look at the long term and fix the time in the Catalonia of the 21st century. President Torra referred to it in an extensive manner this morning. That's why we need to talk about what the government wants to do from now on, we can't stay anchored in the 20th century. The Covid-19 joins a set of existing challenges that have accelerated and emerged from the pandemic in social, economic, climate, migration, democratic, civil rights and individual and collective freedoms. Therefore, I insist that we must be aware that this is not the time to rebuild normal life, but to build new realities. And in this sense, we are celebrating that the Government has set aside the Catalonia 2022 strategy, which counts on the coordination of a number of experts in various fields and which will count on the participation of some 400,000 professionals of prestige to prepare the country for the world that will emerge after the pandemic. Surely, we are bound to know how to live with uncertainty, but we cannot act on the very premises of a world that we have conceived until now and that no longer exists. So, what's normal is that we all ask ourselves the following questions: Are we seeing new health, climate or economic emergencies in a global and recurrent way? To what extent are individual freedoms, privacy and freedom of movement, or simply democracy at risk? Will teletreball be installed predominantly and widely? Will the education of our children be eminently in virtual classrooms? Which business sectors are at risk of disappearing and which will be able to adapt to the new reality? How will mobility be articulated? What is the role of metropolitan areas, cities, towns, urban areas and rural areas? What does European integration have to do with the current withdrawal of some Member States in the midst of a pandemic? Will we be able to find a form of global governance to cope with world-wide challenges? What impact will emerging realities, such as artificial intelligence, have on the next decades? And the answer is clear and simple. Catalonia has always been an engine of modernization and avant-garde with the capacity for transformation and permanent regeneration, with values that are intrinsic to the values of our country: resilience, constancy, effort, sacrifice or well done work. And some actions that have also characterized us from time to time: civic empowerment, a robust, firm-willed partner, and the commitment to talent, innovation, knowledge, and research. Catalonia must continue to be a country of democratic radicalism, of civil rights, feminists, inclusive, territorially balanced, of social, economic and cultural progress, which seeks for sustainability, and which at the same time wants to continue to be a pioneer in the scientific, technological and digital revolution. In this respect, the administrations must take the lead and take the lead. But it will only be possible to build the Catalonia of the 21st century with the involvement of the citizenry and civil society in this giant feat that requires collective, individual, shared co-responsibility also in the future that will foreshadow tomorrow. It involves us all from the personal and collective sphere. At the same time, it is essential to have the tools of a state, the tools of a state to legislate and execute public policies in all spheres. Before this crisis, we already had the conviction that we wanted to be a state. Now, after the crisis, let's say: Catalonia needs an independent state. The management of the pandemic has been a very clear example and a further example of the Spanish government's constant institutional disloyalty. Catalans and Catalans suffer an economic offence with an endogenous fiscal deficit, which is also a social deficit. Catalans and Catalans suffer from a lack of strategic investments for business economic activity; the Mediterranean Corridor is not a clear example. The Spanish State is inactive in the dialog and in cooperation, but it is hyperactive in re-centralisation and in its willingness to annihilate us as we are born. We need a state that goes for us, we need a state that doesn't stick to the wheels, and that isn't a load of beans for the welfare and prosperity of Catalonian citizens. And in this sense, Together for Catalonia we will not help rebuild the 78th Regime, but we will work to build a new state for a better country. We won't be part of a normal old man who legitimizes a Spanish transition. The 78's rule is a failed and ineffective system. The coronavirus has demonstrated and has accelerated the latent crises of the State, that since Junts for Catalonia we have long posed damont of the table: the state of autonomy, the monarchy, the judicial system, the regression in rights and freedoms. This is why we need to continue advancing in the recognition of the right of self-determination and achieve independence. It's the best tool to build a country that is more democratic, fairer and fairer. This is our compromise, and this is our determination. I'm done. President, advisors, advisors, deputies and deputies, it's all changed, or almost everything. The coronavirus has been suffocating for a whole generation. It's been a decade since we've been through a sotrac convulsions with an economic crisis of enormous magnitude. A generation that will also be marked by the U of October referendum and the repression of the Spanish State, and now by the crisis of the Covid-19. As long as these generations, ours and that of our children, can build a dignified life and a future hopeful for us as a new state. We must rise up and project ourselves, creating new realities, because we have hope, because we have illusion, because we will build the Catalonia of the 21st century, a country better served by its people. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. All the same, and to respond to the interventions of the different parliamentary groups and sub-groups, there is an intervention by the Government of the Generality, and, first of all, by the President of the Generality. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.28.0	All right, thank you very much. I'll respond to the groups. I see there's no Mrs. Roldán, which is always a complaint, right? That we don't answer it. [[the President of the]] But go ahead, I'll answer it, therefore, to you, Mr. Carrizosa. Which... well, it surprised me a little bit, or it didn't surprise me, because we're getting used to a little bit of the Ciutadans intervention cocktail, which is always putting the great hits carrying a little bit, today, about talking about the coronavirus, but there have been some novelties: « protesting and kicking, « tricks, « mantras, etcetera. Mr. Francisco Igea is from his party, isn't he? The vice president of Castile and León. Yes, because I remind him that, precisely, from the pandemic, in the most difficult moments too, he made some statements that I think are going to take away a little bit of the whole country, which are swimming in the line..., he says: "I am surprised to have to say that Torra has been the wisest. I mean, maybe, then, I'm talking to Mr. Igea before I did what the government of Catalonia qualified to handle this pandemic. Also from his intervention, from the intervention of Mrs Roldán, we have come to a conclusion, because a good part of his speech has been focused, therefore, on defending the pact with the central government, with the government of the PSOE and of commons. In fact, the same pact that we have in Barcelona, I mean that I see that the solution of the Barcelona Assembly has come along as well as the solution of Madrid. It seems that this agreement between the commons, Socialist Party and Ciutadans, therefore, is already a stable agreement. In any case, let me, the common ones, therefore, plan them, eh? If that's got to be your partner. I think, Mr. Carrizosa, that the subject is much simpler, honestly. Listen, do they want more resources for Catalans or don't they want them? He's answering very quickly. Do you want to reform the Catalan health system or not? Do they pose us or don't they? I think that's what we need to know now. And about your intervention, look, I think I've been very concrete. Contingency plans for all departments will be approved before July 31st. The economic recovery plan, July 21st. And, therefore, I believe, therefore, that they are very clearly answered what you commented. Just two points, too. A very, very quick point. I have to tell you: I learned very hard, I think the whole government knew very hard, its opposition to the assumptions. We would have to be one more person waiting for the resolution of the State Guarantee Board when in that pandemic it was important to count on our assumptions, because all the embolism of managing a pandemic with extended assumptions was very, very considerable. So I'm very sorry about your obstructionism this month. Yes, we knew that there were assumptions that at that time, then, we had to rethink. Now we're doing it, on July 21st, we'll have them prioritized. But counting on approved assumptions or not, really, it's a lot different. And if not, let them also tell the Government of the State, which carries with it the assumptions of Mr. Mariano Rajoy prolonging himself a year, certainly. And finally, also, miri, you at the last part of your intervention spoke of independence and associated it with dangerous ideologies, to "fanatize, to" egoism, "closure, "intolerance, "conflict. I don't know if you'd go to a Scottish Independenceian to tell him all that. Listen, I don't know. We want independence and you don't want it, but we don't want it to be a little more civilized and, for example, instead of putting these adjectives on the table, so we're simply talking about whether we fit in or not. You'll surely put in a series of arguments for which you'll try to convince me that we don't have to be independent, and I'll bring you some other arguments to try to convince you that we do have to be independent. I think it's more normal, don't I? And instead of maybe all these adjectives, we could talk in another way. To Mr. Iceta. I don't think I'm... I don't think there's been any political confrontation these months. There have been different policy proposals, yes. But I believed that the duty as President of the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Catalonia was to explain to the citizen who was our political proposal. Is it that if we weren't doing here? I mean... I insist, listen, it's one day for the other – one day for the other – looking for a state of alarm. Home, it's a little strong, it's a little strong, huh? And before this decision – this is a unilateral decision, of course – before this unilateral decision of the Spanish Government, so we adopted a position of maximum cooperation and political proposal. And all the time we've been, somehow, explaining that another state of alarm was possible. Yeah, that could have done the different things. The Socialist Party is a specialist in political neo-linguism and then in the "centralization in many ways: "federal cooperation, "shared governance...; I'm a fan of a little big, I remember that of the "harmonization of the LOAPA", and I also wanted, in some way, to make up like some kind of federalism. Look, I watched a documentary by Pasqual Maragall, Maragall and the Moon, a magnificent documentary. I think Pasqual Maragall was the last federalist in this country, honestly. I mean, federalism is a very important thing, if man really believes it. And what has happened, I assure you, during these three months and a half, has not been an absolute example of federalism or much less. But, in change, I thank you for the reflections of the five, six points that you have continued, so you have been degreasing. The consensus for the salvation pact; I think that this is a good consensus that we should settle down all the groups in the chamber; I think that we must work together. I think that, in the education consensus, I also appreciate this willingness to participate in it, because we play a lot; I think we are all aware that this is also an essential point. You've done a reflection on the residences, which the week we'll have occasion to talk to you about. I of social protection or consensus on the 2_per_cent cultural. I think they are constructive reflections and, really, in this sense, I do think that... as the first part of his intervention seemed to me not to... or at least that I had to comment on it, this more reflective part of his speech did seem quite interesting to me. And on the issue of resources... it's a basic discussion, it's a speechal discussion in Catalonia, we're talking about the Covid epidemic, or we're talking about any other topic. Indeed, it is very difficult for a country to guarantee a system of welfare to its citizens with the fiscal deficit suffered by Catalonia. It's very difficult. It's very difficult and forces us to exercise balance that we wouldn't have to do. No, no, This country generates enough resources to serve its citizens much better, much better. And this is an essential point. And now I need resources, I need resources that we would have, but I have to look for them as I can. And the government of Catalonia is forced to look for them as it can. And in this sense, I go back to insisting on the chamber, because it seems essential to me: we do not agree that Catalonia can have a 1_per_cent – a 1_per_cent – of the deficit, which would amount to 2,500_million euros? Do we agree? Because this is at your hands, get it. Your morning in Madrid. So they make this 1_per_cent arrive in Catalonia. Do we agree that the surplus of the gatherings and the Romans can arrange for all the gatherings of the color that are in Catalonia? Listen to me, this is at your hands, it's asking everyone, everybody, huh? I mean... so, I think these are decisions that we could share. The 5,000_million we're asking for from the external expenses for..., which cost the coronavirus. I don't know. Is it possible he's against asking the government of the state what was extra for Catalonia? Does this have to be a debt that you also have to hire the generality? Honestly, I think these are fears that we might and should come to terms with the whole chamber. With regard to the Group of Catalonia in Comú We can, miri, I need money right now. I can't wait for 2021, I can't wait for the European foundations of 2021. How do I do that? - with what do I do? Because I can't and can't get into debt, I can't go to the European Union to negotiate anything. How do I do that? I can prioritize the presuppositional parties of Catalonia – and we will, eh? I've already bought myself to do it – but I don't have much to do with that. You cannot imagine to what extent the people of commerce, tourism, industry, the third sector, trick me and ask me: "We are in a desperate situation. And I have to say to them, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That the year we see will already have resources, that will come from Europe and so on. No, no, I need the money now, and that's why... Listen, if I can go to the Mede and get 5,000_million at a 0.1_per_cent, listen, so I go to the Mede. That's who you are. The one with the ho faig? With resources? If anyone in this room tells me how to get resources now, I'll buy it. But we need resources now, for our citizens, now. They can't wait. And the Spanish State can't wait either. That's the big problem. And we have to see that this situation... well, it seems to me to be really serious, and therefore we have to give it among all of us a solution. You call me President Puigdemont and myself the one-sided ones. Okay. Jo, listen, I don't give up anything – I don't give up anything. I do not give up anything that peacefully, that democratically led me to the independence of Catalonia. I will never give up, nor will I ever give up. We have already seen that you, on the 6th and 7th of September 2017, were not exactly on this path. But in this Parliament it voted democratically and peacefully to organize a referendum. Democratically. And I don't give up on that. And finally, listen'm, you say: « The treachery of the Government of Catalonia, of Junts for Catalonia and of the Republican Left... Listen'm, but you came out here to the rostrum and carried against his government, which is the Spanish Government. Home, it's... well, Mr. Iceta, you've lost it, but when I explain it to you, Mrs. Albiach, when you came out... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, he listened to me. [[Rialles.]] Because, listen to me, it seemed, I can assure you, the opposition, and of course... See, it can't be that you're not responsible for anything; no, no. Listen to me, you are responsible, as Mr.Iceta very well assumed, for the decisions made by the Spanish Government; and as long as you are responsible. And, therefore... listen to me, and you who oppose your own government... I don't know, you hadn't seen each other. Because, listen to me, it's true. No, and he says, "No, the LAG, great fortunes, labor reform... Yes, but that depends on you. If you don't agree with this, then you make some decision. [[Greetings.]] And he just said, "No, we have to pressure the government of the state. Oh, but if you're in the state government. How can the state government be pressured? I mean, I, please, I mean, people deserve to be clear about this. Listen to me, I assume my responsibilities as the Government of Catalonia, all of them, and those of parliamentary groups. And it's not... certainly, we've had our differences, certainly. But what can't be is getting out here in the gallery and not being responsible for anything. No, no. Listen to me, you're responsible for this. I, listen'm, me, honestly [[Funnel veils]] - Honestly. No, no, it's just that all these months have passed and that the most progressive government in history has political prisoners in prison, so to me, frankly, I'm looking for shame. [[Greetings.]] Because you could have approved the amnesty law by now, and you haven't. And all this... it's been a while and it seems like nothing happened here. So no, look, come on, and everyone's responsible for the votes he makes and the governments he's in. And that's it. The CUP. I can't share his catastrophic vision and his catalogue of disproposals that have been shown to us by the Government of Catalonia; I can't share it, it's not my Catalonia. And I, the people I'm talking to, the people I'm dealing with, the people we're dealing with all day, so, trying to find solutions, don't set me up with the apocalypse that you guys raised today. Now, I'm also saying that some other Catalan countries are possible? And as long as they're possible, and you have me next to you. I'm also telling you that the only one in this gallery who put up a self-determination reference was me. I don't know the CUP how you want to get to independence, I don't know it. I mean, if you can tell me how we get to independence and what way, so I'd appreciate it, too, because I think we need to be clear about all this. It's the concept that we're exercising the right to self-determination has to be done in some way. Therefore, escort me, forward; know that in tea at your side, you would only miss. But I think..., and above all above the moment, frankly, that certainly vagrants, so, acclaim, and that people, calmly, explain how we get to independence. To Mr. Rodriguez of the PP. I can't say we're not taking responsibility, no, I can't say. Because if anything has done to this government since the first day of this epidemic, it has been taking on its responsibilities, giving its face, being permanently and in the closest possible way with the citizens. You must have made it better, and you can say: "You have made it fatal. I can tell you that, but I can't tell you that we're not taking on our responsibilities. I said – he said – "It is you who say –" they are of those who have seen much better against Spain. So no. Esconti'm, against Espanya is seen fatal, against Espanya is seen in prison and exile or in jutjats. And here in this room we are a few of us living in the courts to go against Spain, according to you. I mean no, against Spain I assure him that he is not seeing good people, and that, really, it is so inconceivable what happens in this Spanish State, it is so inconceivable that for a democratic gesture that it is voting – voting – there are people who are still in prison, in exile or threatened, it is so inconceivable, that, in short, what I can no longer say is that against Spain, therefore, he has seen much better, sincerely. And you, now that all this has happened, and that you have also made a strong criticism, let's say, about the government's management..., you don't seem to ask for total confinement was a good decision, seeing how things have gone? It doesn't look like it. Doesn't it seem to you that the people's horary fringe exit was a good decision? Doesn't it seem to you that the use of masks was a good decision? Doesn't it seem to you that the minimum vital ingredient is a good decision? That the ERTOs are a good decision? Because behind all these proposals there was the Government of Catalonia. And, therefore, it is important that all this becomes clear. And about the limited vision of Catalan society, I can tell you that we have worked for the 7 million i_mig of Catalans. I don't know who the ICU was, I don't know who we've been to, but I do know that we've worked twenty-four hours because the citizens of Catalonia can have the best care service. We've left our skin behind – we've left our skin behind – for all Catalans. And if anything's been made clear in the management of this epidemic, it's that we've ruled for all Catalans. I mean, I'm never going back to saying that we're only running for half the Catalans, and less after this epidemic. And, look, to end a joke, if I may, with the chicken without a head. Now he looked..., so, I say: "To see what you are coming out of the chicken without a head. And it turns out that, listen'm, already the year 1945 to a chicken in the United States, so, they cut his head off. Mike, it's the chicken; Mike, the chicken. And he survived months with his head cut off. I mean, it's not that easy to get rid of chickens. [[Rialles.]] That was a little bit the half-hour of the chicken, let's just say. Very well, and, finally, in Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia, I would like to thank you for your constructive proposals, each, therefore, in its own line, but details. Thank you also for all the support of these months. I think all the members of the government we've heard... we've heard a lot about you, not just you, I think we've heard a lot about most of the city. He's been a pain in the ass. I think you're the toughest days of our lives, no doubt, those early dark days until you start seeing a little light. It's been tough, but without people's support, without your support, we certainly couldn't have. So, thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.29.0	Thank you. Then, and on behalf of the Government, the Deputy President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.30.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, Lords and Members of Parliament, in this intervention, continuing the government's turn, I wanted to fix myself on three objectives. In the first place, explain a part of the Commission's tasks for Economic Reactivation and Social Protection, which we are doing from the government. Secondly, explain, also, therefore, this proposal of the 30,000_million euros that we have to obtain from the corresponding part of the European foundations for the whole policy of reconstruction, all the policy of inn in march and to set off the country another time that we have to finish in the proper years. And also explain to them the process that we are working to expand the assumption approved last April, but that it is obvious that we need to make it bigger, we need to expand the resources there. That is why I cannot complete what the President's intervention in the reply to some of the interventions of the parliamentary groups has been. And I think that, in the same way that we want to thank parliamentary groups for their attitude at very difficult times, for their collaboration and offers of cooperation at very complicated times, for their willingness to discuss proposals, for their willingness to listen to the government and to be able to connect at those times when we cannot make these face-to-face findings, to do so at any time...; I want to thank them. That attitude, however, seems to me that, unfortunately, it has left behind and that it has recovered forms of debate, that it has recovered smallpox and that it has recovered even and not ideology – that it can continue, because there have also been ideological exits to a crisis like we have – but forms of debate that are part of the ancient world, and that I think we should banish. Because the magnitude of the tragedy that we have suffered and that is patenting in this country, and that many of you have expressed in the name of the people who have unfortunately left us, who later have families, who later have families who are patenting and who have not been able to stop the pain, of the people who have not yet recovered, but also of the economic and social effects. After this tragedy, then, we would have to do different things. We should focus more on the solutions and the proposals, which there has also been – and I recognise this – in their interventions, but in some cases I have felt very little. And I also think I need to do the debate from honesty. All the parties in this chamber – all the parties – in some administration or other we have responsibilities for the government. In some cases, like the CUP, in a bunch of joints. In others, in the Government of the State, as in the case of the Socialist Party and Podemos. But also Ciutadans and the People's Party govern autonomous communities. And all – all – have faced complexity. All – all – have faced the decision making at very complicated times where the scientific evidence that there was very low, and where are the decisions taken, everyone, from the conviction that the decision that it was taken was the best, to the knowledge that it had of the disease and its effects. So, now let me see that this has not happened, let me see that the problems in certain areas have only been in Catalonia and, in change, have not been in certain autonomous governments where some of these forces are governed, and that, in the light of what we see, they have been worse in some cases, I think it is not politically honest to lay it down. And, therefore, we need to talk about exits, we need to talk about solutions, and we need to compare models. Because obviously there are models, and obviously this isn't a neutral output. In Mrs Roldán's speech, she said to us: "Now is not the time to talk about politics in the wake of this crisis. So we don't have to talk. Not politics, but politics, yes; politics, yes. Because there have been ideological outings. There have been no ideologically neutral exits. The neutral exits ideologically to the crisis of 2008 we know which ones were: austerity. We already know which were the neoliberal policies, which were neutral. So no. There are no neutral exits. All, all..., because behind proposals there are people, and people have ideology, we have values, we have commitments, we have attitudes, different, different, as they correspond to a society like Catalan, obviously behind proposals there is ideology. We will put ideology and proposals to the proposals. Therefore, I am aware that in the situation in which we are now, we must remember again that the brush has not disappeared, that we must prepare for this possible second time, that we do not know if it will pass, because the future we have not experienced, is to live and, therefore, we must seize the scientific evidence that we have at this time, in the knowledge that there is today. And it's said: "It's possible to have a _onada. So we are preparing ourselves, with strategic reservations, with the purchase of materials and – before the president explained it – with these sectoral contingency plans that we are preparing from the government, but that it is also important to continue to transfer to the citizenry the need that the compromise that allowed the crow to bend..., we have to do this and start by individual action, with hygiene, with physical distance, with wearing the mask in public places. You're important. These little gestures help, because, in addition to everyone's gestures, it's a great collective gesture. But there are also economic and social consequences, and that's what I want to focus on. Public administrations, far from retreating, must be on the offensive to lead economic and social recovery. And we say this from the beginning: if we want it to be recovered, not to return to an unequal society and to a society with an economic model that contaminates and a social model that perpetuates inequalities, but to do better, to go to a better society, we need precisely that there is the public role, which means the role of organised citizenship, through democratic institutions, through public assumptions. And that's what we've been doing with the government, and we've been doing it thanks, for example, to some of the things that have allowed us to have this Parliament, such as the presuppositions of 2020. Because someone will say, quite rightly, that these assumptions did not foresee the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, but they did foresee it much less or were much less able and had much less resources to do with it, the assumptions of 2017, the assumptions of 2017 extended. Thanks to have, therefore, also some presuppositionary credits and possibilities of spending much higher departments than not three years ago, we could face it better, but we have to face it more, more with them. In any case, just because you're making some idea of the set of actions in economic and social matters that we've been doing with the government. More than 185 actions to tackle health emergencies and to contribute to economic recovery with a presuppositionary impact of almost 1,700_million euros. Most of these decisions, which are the set of decisions and measures that we have taken from the government, beyond the health and residential sphere, in the rest of the areas, 85_per_cent intended to protect and strengthen the product fabric, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises– 82_per_cent of the measures are intended for small and medium-sized enterprises. The bulk of these economic efforts through mobilization, through our public bank of loans and guarantees, 1,080_million euros, followed by direct subsidies of presupposition, which without the presupposition of 2020 has not been possible, of 472_million euros. And also tax measures worth 144_millions. At this time the Catalan Institute of Finance and Validation, in the line of prestecs and downstream, have been able to formalize more than a thousand operations and there are no studies 750 more. Someone will tell me that there are few, but who managed to save the company thanks to a loan, who managed to access a loan thanks to the generality, one hundred_per_cent endorsed by the generality, and managed to keep the job places, will consider that it is not a small measure, that it is an important measure. Tax measures have focused on the renewal of tax collection, and that is why we had the authority to claim from the State that you are doing the same. So when we addressed the government of the State, we said, "We have done it; be it, you must do it, too. And reduce the tax burden with a presuppositional impact of 144_million euros. Beyond these great figures, the Commission for the Reactivation has carried out a whole series of measures: 59_million euros of the Pla de coc of active employment policies, despite the detail, through the Occupational Service of Catalonia. And then, measures in many different areas: from more than EUR 5 million for the wine sector to EUR 4 million for collaboration with the Food Bank; EUR 3 million for the maritime and fishing sector; EUR 10 million for the professional sector of tourism; EUR 7 million for transport and logistics; EUR 7 million for improving education in this sector; EUR 5 million for the professional sector of culture; EUR 5 million for a new measure, to support people in a situation of administrative irregularity, new and old, Catalan and Catalan, who, by their origin and by having immigrated to Catalonia, because of both the time of our misconception and the time of our misconception. From increasing resources in the fight against male violence, 2.9_million euros more than we already had under the assumption, to 20_million decarbonization measures; from support measures to the sport sector, from 3_millions, to 188_millions in a cleaner energy model. These are some of the measures, but it is obvious that they are measures of shock, and that they can go much further and also think that a good part of the decisions we make now will have an effect on the length of our own years, thinking about that Catalonia of 2030 on which we built the vision of the assumptions that we recently approved in this Parliament. Therefore, it is not the time to have a reactive attitude and to see them come, but to advance us, to act, to make decisions. It is not the time to make a list of the injustices and dangers we have and to raise our eyes only, but to stay and act. And, therefore, we are working, as has already been mentioned, in the initial intervention, on the part of the President, in an economic recovery plan in which, in the economic aspect, first of all, there is a great economy for life where we have to place priorities in the area of sanitation, care for people, research and research and the agro-food industry, strategic sectors of the country. Secondly, the technological field, through the reindustrialisation and massive digitisation of the Catalan economy, as well as the social initiative organisations. There's an opportunity for industrial relocation, if we know how to take advantage of it. And, in the third place, the ecological transition, which obviously has to be present and, obviously, all, therefore, bitter in this society of knowledge, which is a cross-cutting element. It is this bet to transform these economic sectors, a country transformation. How do you finance this? So there's a lot of funding needs, and a good part of resource management has been talking here. In the short term, in the measures for this year, not only the Covid Fund, which has finally implemented the State, and which will allow Catalonia to have 3,200_million euros and which we will have to allocate to the field of salvation, to the field of teaching, social matters, but also to the field of economic recovery, these immediate measures. And that this is going to be the bulk of the scope of the assumption, we're going to have to increase it too with a new deficit target. It is not that we do not have a deficit that would correspond to us at a time of crisis and that public emissions cannot be withdrawn, but that they must be on the offensive, but that the Government of the State still maintained us with a deficit of budgetary balance, of 0_per_cent. It has not even approved 0.2 and, therefore, I believe that there must be a clear compromise here because there are some deficit targets, because, if not, a good part of the measures that we will adopt here will not be financed. And measures without funding do not exist, they are not fan, they do not apply, they do not reach people and, therefore, we insist so much on resources, that they are resources for the citizen. And the Government of Catalonia will end up with a deficit higher than this year's permit, but it's better to do it with planning, so that it can't do it by inertia, but by going on the offensive, with direct actions. It sees an extremely complicated September, socially and economically. This country makes the tourist season a good part of the tickets of many families who are in a very precarious situation, and this year will not be, these tickets, or will be much smaller. And, therefore, we need the resources to be able to make late a delay where there is a whole battery of proposals and measures in line with which they will surely be proposed, which all of you propose, but we need to have the resources to be able to do so, and that is what we need to do this September. We need this 1_percent deficit, essential– indispensable– and therefore, here are parties that govern the State, and which is at their hands. It cannot be that the State foresees a deficit of 7.5_per_cent of GDP for Social Security and keeps us in the Government of Catalonia and keeps autonomous communities 0_per_cent. It can't be. It can't be. And therefore it is necessary to assume and assume this new purpose of deficiency; it is absolutely essential. But Catalonia also has the leading role to play in dealing with the country's needs in the management of the European reactivation fund, which is a good initiative, which is good, which is more important in terms of transfers, which has just been agreed upon, and which we have already said and repeated, and we have said publicly, the members of the Government, the President has said, that in negotiating these resources in front of Europe Catalonia will be at the expense of whom I defend that these resources reach the people, but they must also arrive through the administrations that manage the territory. Europe and the principles of subsidiarity have all been the same. We're also doing it with this background. And in Catalonia they correspond to 30,000_million euros these 140,000_million euros that is expected to arrive in the Spanish State, as at least in the initial proposal of the European Commission, given the impact that Covid has had on Catalan society and the economy. And, therefore, it is essential: the deficit of the '1_per_cent and that in this area of the own years, from 2021 and during the following five years, we can dispose of these 30,000_million euros, which should be used for the social investment, investment in the energy, industrial, economic, infrastructure and climate change; it should be used for all those that you will also be proposing in this room, and that we have already done so and that we will be proposing all the votes that will have to be put to the vote. And, therefore, it is essential that these resources be available in order to carry out the measures which citizenship is demanding of us and which are being carried out in this Parliament. It's absolutely imperative. And that's why I make a call, another time – another time I make a call – to all the formations, because in those areas where they have responsibilities working together with this chamber, in those areas where they have Vaginal responsibilities to defend the interests of Catalonia, which are the interests of Catalonia's citizens, in order to be able to make this presuppositional enlargement that obviously – obviously – we have to be able to do it at once. The Covid Fund of Autonomous Communities allows us to do it by trams; we would like to do it at once, but we will do it. Anyway, it's much better to do it at once than not by trams. But we will, and if we can do so in a consensual way with parliamentary groups, better. But in any case we will not take away our responsibility. And obviously – and with this end – what you can't ask and we can't ask is that on the way out of this crisis everyone has to give up who he is, who he is or who he thinks about. There are still political prisoners and exiles. Catalonia continues to claim a right to self-determination, exercising a right to self-determination by means of a reference, and the State prevents it. And, therefore, I need to put these themes back on the table. It cannot be demanded that the price of a sort of neutral crisis ideologically be forgotten what we think, what we defend, the political projects. We don't ask for opposition groups. Therefore, we do not accept that they demand this government of Catalonia to compromise with the independence of our country, to put it to the people's service, to the social justice service and to serve, in short, to keep the tools to overcome also the harmful consequences that this pandemic will hardly have. I want to thank all the government companies and also the president of this week's work, which has been extremely hard and complicated, very difficult, when there have been moments of everything, obviously. There have been times when dealing with some of the situations was extremely complex. But everybody put the collar on it. Everyone tried hard, as they correspond to all public servers. And, therefore, proud to be part of this team. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.31.0	Thank you, Vice President. Then there's the words of the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.32.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Members, Members, we are here today in Parliament in a monogram on the management of the Covid-19 and the reconstruction of our country, a monogram of everything necessary to be able to balance and like the Government here to compare to make this balance over everything that has assumed this pandemic and its management. But we are also here to talk about the future, to make concrete the actions that from a global visit of the country allow us a response to the fate of the health, economic and social crisis caused by the Covid-19. Therefore, first of all I want to make a brief statement about what this crisis has entailed and the response that we have had to finish from the government and the department that I preside over. And, secondly, I would also like to end by talking about these aspects of the future and, therefore, about which mechanisms have been the mechanisms that we have adopted as a government to soothe them. Because it's true that like society these past few months, we've had a hard time. In fact, difficult and especially painful times for those who have lost loved ones, and also difficult and especially hard and hard times for all those who have lost their work or those who have spent months in an ERT without entering a euro or yet, today, all those who, even if in an ERT, have not yet charged a euro. I also want to make a recognizance at the company's joint venture and at the joint venture of all the essential workers, because there has been an individual and collective effort and solidarity that enabled us, in the first place, to make possible the release of this confinement and, therefore, to move forward in the fight against the pandemic. The Government of Catalonia, since the first moment, has worked alongside the people; we have wanted to be next to the people and we have done so with transparency, giving all the information, listening to the experts and also acting with determination before the initiations and the requests that were made, as President Torra explained to them this morning. An attitude and action of the Government of Catalonia that more than once in this hemisphere felt me describe as demanding and self-requirement; self-requirement towards our responsibilities and the responsibilities of third-party actors that they also had to say in this crisis. In this case, for example, the Spanish Government, after the re-centralisation of the competitions. And, in concrete terms, as the Government's spokesman, I wanted to be especially self-requiring in the communication that the Government has carried out throughout the management of this crisis, because, as you know, communication is an essential requirement for the management of any health crisis and above all if we find ourselves before a health crisis of the magnitude as we have found ourselves before. And here – if I may – I would like to make a specific thank you to Councillor Vergés and Councillor Buch for the fact that they have submitted to this proposal for a daily communication from the Government and accompany me to each of the press wheels that we have had to finish. Because, aware of this importance and of working with total transparency, we have made a total of fifty-one wheels of press, in which, despite the hard time of some moments – because I believe that there have been very hard times – we have donated all the information to the government in a clear and transparent way. And let me focus on transparency. We have always worked under the transparency criteria, making all the information we had available regarding Covid-19 visible and accessible. We have communicated to him that we knew and all the forecasts that we had, without being alarmist, but always making clear the situation so as to bring to the citizenry three objectives: what was the situation at every moment, what did the authorities do to respect and what could or should be done by the citizenry. Therefore, veracity, clarity and transparency as pillars of government communication. And if these have been the communication criteria, I also have to say that the criteria that have been the foundational vector of all those policies of the different units of the Presidency Department have been, since the first moment, criteria of cooperation and coordination. With this I am referring to the fact that all units have worked cooperatively and in a coordinated manner with all the other departments of the Generality, and we have intensified extraordinarily cooperation and coordination with other administrations and also with the social agents of our country. I would like to highlight, for example, the cooperation and coordination of the Department of Local Administration with all the meetings from the first day, with the deputies, with the local councils and with the municipal authorities. Some local administrations that have also been in the first struggle against this Covid-19 and that, like the Government, we have considered from the first moment and consider allied and indispensable institutions also to be able to face this health crisis, but also the economic and social crisis that we are facing. Or from the Catalan Institute of Donations, strengthening cooperation with all specialized entities through the National Council of Donations of Catalonia and also accompanied from the local world. In fact, yesterday we signed an interinstitutional cooperation agreement with the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Catalonian Federation of Municipalities with an increase of more than €2 million in investment in all public policies aimed at eradicating inequality between men and women and addressing male violence, which – as we have seen and demonstrated during this pandemic – has become even more manifest. Because this pandemic, before it was said here in this room, has primarily a woman's face. Or from the Secretary of Sport and Physical Activity, with full coordination and cooperation with the sport fabric of this country, we have worked with the sport fabric of this country, which I would like to remind you that it is a wide and diverse fabric that rises to 72_percent of the population of our country, a sector with a clear economic impact in our country. We're talking about a sector that accounts for 2_percent of Catalonia's GDP. We're talking more than 5,000_million euros and that generates 3.2_percent of the occupation and this represents more than a hundred_1,000 jobs. Unfortunately, the economic impact produced for the pandemic is very large and, since the government, we have taken a whole series of measures with the objective of addressing and overcoming this situation. Therefore, with the world of sport, but also with the local world or with the Català de los Dones Institute, with the means of communication, the whole Department of the Presidency we have been working to improve and reactivate the economic situation of the local administrations, also of the sports entities and also of the entities that pay attention to the women. And we've done this through cooperation and coordination, but also with a clear objective that it's the liquidity injection, because to leverage and reactivate the economic impact of this pandemic, we need to provide liquidity to those administrations and entities that are the first gateway to citizens, such as the local world or the entities that are on the side of the weakest, such as women victims of male violence or also the sporty fabric of our country, which is an economic motor, but it's also a social motor and it's also an engine of salvation. Therefore, let's subsidize, help us, lines of credit, PUOSC, the advance of the payment of the Local Cooperation Fund or the creation of an extraordinary local cooperation fund to help manage the expenses over the local world associated with the crisis of the Covid-19, in which we are working so that we can make available as soon as possible. But, as I said to the principle of my intervention, we have a comprehensive and comprehensive view of the country. We need to define a country project to build a new future after this Covid-19. And, determined to define this country project in the post-Covid context, thinking of short-term but also long-term, since the Presidency Department we have pushed two instruments to make it possible. I am talking about the Catalonia 2022 strategy, which is working on the proposal to build a new future, and I am talking about the economic recovery and social protection plan known as Coreco, which the vice president explained before. They are two powerful instruments and they are also complementary to one another. Because Catalonia 2022 and Coreco are the tools to make this country recover and to make it more prepared for the reality of a world that will be very different a time overcome this pandemic. And like it's a repte de pays, it's everyone's involvement. From the knowledge of the experts working on this strategy Catalonia 2022, to the active participation of whom it needs and at the same time implements the measures, such as the different administrations, such as the economic agents and the different social and productive sectors that are also collaborating and working in Korea. Because the rep we have is capital. We still find ourselves with a health crisis that we have not overcome, we still have it present, and in an economic and social crisis that requires us all to build a new and disruptive future. These last few months we have seen ourselves vulnerable, but we have also seen ourselves strong and we have seen ourselves able to do so. Therefore, we make it possible between all of us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is the turn, now, of the Counsellor of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Mr Bernat Soler. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.34.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, Vice-President, Members, Deputies, Councillors, Councillors, allow me, in the first place, to add to the sympathy shows and to the support shows that other members of this Government have made during their interventions, but also allow me to extend this support to all citizens, to all Catalans and Catalans who have not yet been able to return to our country and who are living in this pandemic, this complexity to miles of distance, hoping that they will soon be able to be together with their families. Today there is this monogram ple, which we appreciate, so that we can explain everything we've done during these three_months of pandemic; it allows us to explain from each of the departments all the work that has been done. And, therefore, allow me to convey a sincere message of thanks to all the staff of the department, to all the staff who, despite the difficulties, have worked tirelessly day after day, from home, putting all the attitudes there, putting all the resources there, because each of the departments can develop all the challenges that lay ahead. In this sense, from the Department of External Action, Institutional Relations and Transparency, we can say that we are proud, since between the months of March to June 2020 the team of Emergencies of the department established in Barcelona, together with the fifteen delegations of the Government abroad, have attended 2,856 people, correspondents to one hundred_seven countries. As of today, a 94_percent of the rebuttal queries have already been resolved satisfactorily. It means they're home, and the townspeople have already been able to return. With these figures it is clear that we need to continue to strengthen the country's external presence, because it has been shown that the citizens want it and need it. We act outside because the country needs it, and it goes on to project us into the world, but also to study, day after day, what it does to the world, and put all this analysis to the country's servants. In a first phase, concretely, we collected good practices in relation to containment measures. Up to two daily reports according to the updates that are produced in the country. So, concretely, from March 12 to today, delegations have issued more than 1,200 good practice reports – 1,200 good practice reports. Subsequently, the follow-up to the confinement was extended with the collection of measures to promote economic and social recovery, with particular attention to the most disadvantaged sectors. Therefore, the delegations have also analysed the plans for decontainment and recovery of the different countries where we have delegations. Specifically, there have also been 100_din specific reports analysing with depth measures to be applied during the period of confinement, and also post-Covid, in eleven different themes. We have made reports linked to the agricultural sector, to the cultural sector, to the education sector, to children's issues, to large-scale people's residencies, to digitisation, to economic transition, or in relation, to a further example, to the application of universal basic income. And what did all this work do? So all this information was made available to us by the different departments of the Government to help manage the crisis and make decisions in different areas and sectors; everything that was good in other countries could be good in our country. From the end of April and until mid-July, the state of comparison between different countries was collected weekly, and this served to share in the government's executive councils concretely new reports with files/country collecting good practices from different countries where we have coverage through delegations, and not only that, but we have also analysed countries like Japan, China, New Zealand and some African countries as well. At present, delegations are still fond of the measures that apply to countries that cover so as to provide practical vouchers to the Commission for Economic and Social Reactivation, for which we have also developed and are continuing to produce fifty specific files of practical vouchers. Before that, I am surprised that some parliamentary group still has doubts about the need to have these delegations, and precisely the parliamentary group that is part of a government that allocates 30_million euros in external action does so. Transparency and citizen participation. We are convinced that transparency is key to building confidence, and even more so in crisis and disconnection situations. That is why, as we in the department have also worked because citizens have all the information they can about this crisis. Fifty-four actions have been incorporated into the governance plan to address the effects of the Covid-19, grouped into three objectives. A first objective, put at the abst of citizenship tools to deal with the effects of the Covid-19. Specifically, a specific portal has been enabled within the Government Obert website with all the information, tools, applications and regulations in all areas of government. At the same time, there has been a follow-up of the citizen's attention to the different channels and the different petitions that the citizens of this country have formulated for us. And, concretely, we have rejected and we have returned 233 communications. An objective_second, provide information in open data format linked to the effects of the pandemic. Today, a total of thirty-seven sets of Covid data have been published and updated, among which we find data based on ERTOS, in government emergency contracts, in companies that facilitate their services to help with the needs of the pandemic, citizen care, data on the impact on commercial activity, official tourist establishments, as well as all data that refer to the positive and probable cases of Covid-19, associated deaths and the evolution of mortality in Catalonia. Thirdly, it is possible for the citizenry to address direct questions to members of the Government in relation to the pandemic. We have started the project."I ask, a project that has already ended in those countries that lead democracy in their governments. A space on the citizenry can ask the government directly. These questions complement the formulae for the same communication channels and are also answered by the members of the Government. Specifically, we have already held an edition with the Health Counselor and another edition, another session with the Interior Counselor, with the intervention of 282 participants and with 425 proposals. And not only that, but we've detected an unidentified problem from this, because the questions that citizens often ask do not always coincide with the questions that the communication media ask. And this identified problem is related to the long-term Covid-19 symptomatology, and thanks to this, a platform of affections has been created for the persistent Covid-19 symptoms, which today counts with six hundred people. But all this work that we're doing also serves us to work on the reflection of the post-Covid world, he thought we have to lead because this new world already has him here. We are clear that the current model does not work – we have felt it in many areas and in many forums – and it is not sustainable, and it is a strategy of collaboration and work in the network to prepare for the reconstruction of the country. For this reason, the reflections that we are making here today, precisely in your parliamentary office, are essential because the changes in the future – the changes in the future – will be the result of the decisions of the present; what we decide today and here will be fundamental to the change that is produced in the future. Tomorrow starts today. The measures we are implementing now will define how we want our future to be. The crisis of the coronavirus has put in place that we need all the tools to work in favor of Catalans and Catalans, and to do this, first of all, we bet that the European recovery fund is able to manage from the territories and that the Generality is who has the resources and can invest in the reconstruction of the country. For another band, we also make it clear that we will not get out of this crisis alone; we will only get out of this crisis if we are able to get out - collectively. Precisely because of this, at a time like the one we are living, we have to make ourselves our own values of responsibility and solidarity, and, in this sense, from the Department of External Action we will allocate 1,3_million euros to subsidizing international humanitarian actions to address the pandemic. Finally, we have the 2030 Agenda more present than ever to build a model based on sustainability and respect for the environment, the circular economy serving people, the better financing of public health systems and direct investment in research. And, therefore, our contribution, the contribution of our department to the Economic and Social Reactivation Commission of the Government of the Generality, Coreco, is precisely that all the measures adopted in Coreco are aligned with the objective of sustainable development. Therefore, as it cannot be any other way, we will continue to work to ensure and preserve all the rights for everyone, to build a new world more just, more solidarity, more sustainable and free from corruption. And for that, we will continue to explain ourselves, we will continue to project the country abroad and we will continue to combat the violation of rights. In order to achieve this, we must continue to be present, and this is precisely the role of the department and the delegations: connecting with the world and being the reference of the Government of the Generality to the outside and the reference for Catalans living outside. MPs and MPs, I arrived at the government in the midst of a pandemic, with a situation of maximum complexity, a situation probably never imagined for anyone. And before this complexity, I found myself a fully compromised government with the country and especially with people. And that's exactly what we've done since the first day. Because I'm there, because we've been there, and because I'm there. Because we feel compromised with people; because we feel compromised with people who have suffered the effects of the Covid; because we feel compromised with all those professionals who have been in the grip of this pandemic to make it happen; because we feel compromised with life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's back now for the education counselor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.36.0	President, MPs, MPs, compañeros and compañeros of government, the education system was, surely, the first great public service, in the band of the Salut, that covered the substrac of the effects of the pandemic. We were going to have to close schools and institutes when it's still not closed, thirty, before March 12. On March 12, the Government proposed to the Procicate to close all schools and institutes, when a total confinement had not yet been given. In fact, they shut down all the educational centres in the Vall d'Odena on the day before they decreed the perimeter confinement of the Vall d'Odena, because at those times the health institutions believed that it was the first measure to last, and because always, since the government, the safety and health of our teacher and our student have been in the first line. From here and with an immense difficulty to keep all the centers closed, all the students at home, all the teachers at home, therefore, in a situation that we did not foresee, and for which we were not prepared, we started working on what seemed to be more urgent, and the first was to solve the needs of those students who had a higher scholarship and who were, precisely, confined home without these resources. 150.000 food stamps distributed with a total final charge of 272_euros each, so 40_million euros, 5 more than would be usual in a normal course, because we also decided that these food needs would have to be answered in those days of Holy Week that were not officially lectius, but that they were among the marches of the course. They were initially criticized for being money targets. Some of those who criticized it have ended up using currency tags for their social resources. Yes, it wasn't an easy solution, but if we look at all the solutions that all administrations have ended up with similar resources, it was ultimately the most useful, and we were the first, and it was ultimately the most useful. And I want to give a given. We have been able to follow the use of the targets, of these 150,000 targets, of these 40_million euros, in their totality, almost in the hundred_per_cent have been used in food establishments. Because there were some targets that respond to a need, and it's an obvious need. But we have to manage more, for example, pre-registration by telematics, which had never been done. 150,000 telematic pre-registrations managed without incidences. We won't be able to go on. You already know that the world educates an incidence appears in the social networks immediately, and you could see that this telematics management, which was not easy, because it was "new, it worked without incidences. 420,000 videoconferencing around educational centres, 34,000 devices configured and distributed to the most vulnerable student, 22,500 units of collectivities activated for the most vulnerable student. We've been very ambitious. We haven't all made it, right, but we've been the most ambitious. Other territories of the State have distributed to the most vulnerable student such a high number of configured devices or such a high number of connectivity units. Nor has the same State added to everything that has spread throughout the territory of the State, has distributed as many units and devices as we have, and we have not reached all and all that they needed. Sure, but we've been ambitious. We have created 709 new virtual learning platform, an increase of 48,1_percent of the platform that there were, with 321 teaching resources, of which 390,000 views have been made. And here I want to put in value another thing. Our education system, which was not prepared to work for the cent_per_cent telematically, has reacted and worked, has not collapsed with other education systems in the states of Europe that have closed down. And someone asked us that we are doing the same thing here, that tanking, and it worked for these resources that I have thought of; it worked, basically, for the work of the teacher; it worked, basically, for the work of the centres; it worked, basically, for the work of the administrative staff and the servants, the staff of the educational services, of the inspection, and also of the families, and of the joints, in a community work that has been effective. We've worked hand in hand with the educational community. I did it myself. I met a hundred mayors. The mayor of Barcelona, the mayor of Badalona, the mayors of the Hospitallet, of Santa Coloma, of Sabadell, the mayor of Prat, the mayor of Terrassa, the mayor of Girona, the mayor of Tarragona, the mayor of Lleida, but also yesterday that of Móra d'Ebre, or just a few days ago that of Sitges and this morning that of Blanes, and also last week with all the mayors of Osona. We've met, I myself with a hundred, and heads of the department with all the mayors of the country to thank them for what they're doing, to ask them to do more, and to offer us to help them what you need. I have met seven times with the four deputies, the Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities jointly to work on joint agreements. I've met with parliamentary groups three times, in the band of an appearance. And we've also been ambitious on the return of June. We have opened the June schools to do more activities than they have done in the other territories of the State, in some of which they have not opened the June schools, and in some of which they have opened fewer proposals than we have. We knew it was difficult, we knew it was risky, we knew it wouldn't go out with the same efficiency and efficiency everywhere, but we had to do it. And now we're working on the opening of the course in September, and we're working absolutely effectively. This morning, all the centers and all the gatherings have rejected some first general instructions. This morning we sent the Procicate an extensive document of the contingency plan for the 20-21 school year, prepared for the Department of Education and the Department of Health, which the Procicate will value and validate, hopefully, the divestiture. Yesterday and today we were negotiating with the trade union sectoral table aspects of the general criteria – what the centers rejected was not the one we presented to the table, it was the result of the table. We have also worked on the Joint Association-Federation Commission these days, and we are working on this document that will approve the Process. We are also working with representatives of various of the educational community on the concrete application of this first extraordinary presuppositional section to which the vice-president refers, in which there are two petitions, two agreements of this plenary in its last session: a plan against segregation produced for the coronavid and the vulnerability produced for the coronavirus of 33_million euros, or the application to September of a digital plan for the schools, for the faculty and for the students of 103_million euros. From all this – from all this – from these general criteria that we have delivered to the schools and to the assemblies today, from this specific and concrete platform that the Procicate has rejected today because it validates the diverging, from these presuppositional parties already agreed and from which we are negotiating at the union table, I will make a appearance at the committee tomorrow. Therefore, tomorrow I will have the opportunity to debate with you, to round up with you all these documents, all these proposals, which are very simple to sum up and very difficult to practice. The course that must be a normal course, with extraordinary health measures; it must be a course of full face-to-face prepared for virtuality. It has to be a more resourceful course, because we are in educational emergence, that it is not the emergence of buildings, as it was in part health care; that it is not the emergence of only staff, as it was in good part health care, which is by all means a pedagogical emergence. It is beginning the course coming on September 14th with 1,600,000 students who have been six months out of their regular education center, who have been six months working in a different way than they were used to and who have been six months emotionally, intellectually, personally. Because the effects of the Covid on our youngest age are very important effects, and that school is one of the tools to be able to reverse them, and that's what we have to do from September 14th, and that's what we say about education. But, Mr President, Members and Members, as I said, that's what we'll have in committee all the time to talk, to debate and to agree on what you want. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.37.0	I now send a return to the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.38.0	Good afternoon, President. President, Councillors, Members, Members, join me in thanking you for the celebration of the plenary. My condolences to the family and friends of the victims of the Covid, and also my solidarity with the people and families who have entered some vulnerable situation. I would like to begin, in any case, by thanking the workers of the private enterprises and the public servants of the areas of competence of the Department of Territories and Sustainability who have made essential services of the country work during the phases of confinement and decontainment, and who are now, logically, adapting all these services to the phase of recovery; the transporters and the personnel of the ports, the airports, the logistics centres, to move the goods and the necessary sanitary sub-ministries; the workers of the public transport – of Railways, of Rodalies, of metro, of buses, of trams–, to move the people who needed it; the workers who have guaranteed that when working a line of quality, and each undertaking the correct management, they will be guaranteed. There have been days of daily crisis cabinets, of a thousand different cases, sometimes of denial, of much denial, for one or another situation that needed much more effort than usual to resolve it, but always attached to the responsibility and, ultimately, to the willingness of the service. The country hasn't stopped working for a day. Therefore, many thanks to all these private workers and also to all the public servants who have made it possible. Beyond the day-to-day management of the crisis, from the Department of Territory and Sustainability we have established a set of measures to aim at minimizing the economic impact of the same crisis on people, families, businesses in the country. The moratorium on the payment of logger of the public housing stock, for example; the 50_per_cent bonus in the water canon, or the residual taxes; the gratuity in public transport during those days of total confinement. Universal measures with the same orientation: to promote liquidity, so that we give money to the butxaca of people and businesses, and, therefore, of the system, essential to make the country work as well. Measures that – I don't want to detail them more – have had a total economic impact of approximately more than 120_million euros, only in the area of the Department of Territory and Sustainability. Continuing with the management of the crisis, with this management that was now explaining them, and the measures that we have taken, what is it that we are most concerned about now? Not only obviously, but we want to focus our attention more and share with you this concern. In the first place, in public transport. One of the first things we did was a decree of extraordinary measures to assume the deficit generated by the downgrading of the travel name. Public money to rescue public services. This deficit is counted in hundreds of millions of euros. Hundreds. It's a very important cipher. A certain amount of EUR 800_million has been authorised, of which EUR 16,000_million is to be transferred to the Autonomous Communities, from which it now appears that a minimum of EUR 130_million could be allocated. They are about to materialize, but we must say that they will be insufficient, they will be insufficient. We will continue to manage this situation with the ministry, in continuous coordination via the Directorate General for Transport and Mobility and via ATM with the operators, but we obviously need to finish managing how they get there, how they will distribute these 800_million euros and, obviously, be able to dispose of the maximum available for this deficit. We also established a compensation for the exhausted titles, the unused ones, which have expired and which are precisely bechand from today, July 1. Without the need to physically move to the stations, it is easy for users and users of titles who have not been able to use, as a result of the alarm state, to be able to change these titles from today. We've had some incidence in some bus lines but it'll work out, and we'll continue with this continued beech operation. It's a bescanvi operation that has a value of 18_million euros. Therefore, also an important cipher to take into account. From now on and beyond the next few weeks, we will make it easier that there can be this need so that no one is left, therefore, with the feeling of having an usual, casual T and that it could not be used; 18_million euros. The other major area of concern – I have explained to them that of public transport – is that of housing and, concretely, that of helping them to pay for it. We have enabled the moratorium in the public park, there are help for the mortgage payment, but you help them to pay for the logger, universal, they of the private market worry us enormously. The State has set aside an extraordinary amount of EUR 100_million, of which some EUR 14.5_million have arrived in Catalonia, a figure which does not correspond to the percentage of the population, nor much less with the percentage of the housing stock, nor much less with the market value of this housing stock. We will see quickly and clearly that they will be insufficient. Anyway, since the Government of the Generality, we have expanded in 5_millions of euros, in 5_millions of euros, these funds to help them to logue via the Contingency Fund. But, in fact, we're still demanding that these foundations of the State be expanded a lot. 14_million_i_mig plus our 5_million, according to this call, but, we insist, this is dubiously insufficient and we will continue to demand that these foundations be expanded. I, finally, the future. Green Agenda-oriented economic recovery and social protection in the areas of housing and public transport. In the framework of Coreco, those who preceded me in the paragraph have also used this word to refer to the Commission for Economic Reactivation and Social Protection, we are, and concretely in the Green Agenda working group, which we coordinate from the Department of Territory and Sustainability, we are preparing a series of proposals with concrete economic reactivation actions aligned with the European Green Deal. The European Green Deal that we share, so we also said at the climate change summit celebrated the generation of this year and, therefore, has been a few months back. Eight great proposals, eight large blocks of proposals that will be aligned with the eight axes of the European Green Deal, the climate ambition of Catalonia, the generation of net energy, an industry with a circular economy, an efficient use of energy and resources in building and renovation of buildings – therefore, in the rehabilitation of habitats and buildings – a sustainable and intelligent mobility, a food system respectful of the environment, preservation and also in relation to the Nature Agency – which approved this plenary of Parliament last week or earlier – the preservation of ecosystems and biodiversity and, lastly, the concept of zero contamination. These are the great eight axes of the European Green Deal that we share with us through the Green Agenda working group, with Coreco, because economic recovery is perfectly aligned with this green agenda. Because Europe is betting very hard, very hard, for a green revival, and it's the same way we have to go. Taking advantage of health emergencies to cope with climate emergencies is to cope with future crises that can come, and it makes us, this way of dealing with them, more resilient and better preparing us. And now, finally, we need European funds, we need funds from the Spanish State for the economic reactivation oriented to the Green Agenda, and for this social protection that, in the concrete case of the Department of Territory and Sustainability, are already mentioned earlier – you help them to pay for the logue, the promotion of social logger habitats, and also public transport, both in infrastructures, infrastructures like line 9 line 8, the union of trams through the Diagonal or also, with better structural financing, with its public transport use. Convinced, at the same time, that the best economic recovery and social protection we can offer to the people of Catalonia is said to be direct to Europe, you are said to be close to Europe; it is said to be appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, there's the words of Mrs. Mariângela Vilallonga, Culture Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.40.0	Good morning. President-in-Office, very honourable President of the Generality, advisers and advisers, Members of Parliament, I am honoured to be part of this Government and to be able to present today to the Parliament of Catalonia that, as the Councillor of Culture, I am in charge. Thank you, President Torra, to make it possible, and thank you, above all, to lead with little firmness this coalition government on this desert crossing that was the health crisis of the Covid-19. Culture is socialization. Since March 14th we have not been able to give our hands to dance Sardinian; we have not been able to buy books and roses from either the bookstores or the Sant Jordi parades; we have not been able to make castles or major feasts. In order to save lives, we locked ourselves in houses, alone or with families, we knew that they died friends and acquaintances and we couldn't accompany them. My record and my tribute to all of them and their families. The world is changing at once. We had, yes, the windows outside looking for electronics, mobiles, computers. We reposition our world there, digitally. The culture was put on digitally: songs, novels, operas, documentaries, theatre works, concerts fed us, saved us. First, enjoying all those of the world that we had left behind, and, at the same time, producing culture from the balconies, from the living salts of the houses. Culture has been sheltered while health workers saved our lives. My tribute also to all of them and to all of those who have lived in the first line of this salvation of ours. From the very first moment we pushed the Cultivated Rescue Plan to deal with the deep economic crisis in which we found ourselves immersed. The precariousness of the cultural sector has become more evident. With the Rescue Plate we've helped put up with the coup. We have created extraordinary aid, we have activated lines of credit to provide liquidity, we have opened advisory channels and accompanying, we have given support to the great equipment to facilitate liquidity and to be able to maintain all the places of work and we have restructured the presupposition of 2020 in order to be able to prioritize the most social measures, for example, creating a social benefit with the Department of Work, an aid to the workers of culture, to the professionals who had remained uncovered. A measure activated while not above the status of the artist we claim to the Government of the State. We have also done so after talking to all the cultural sectors, which you already know are very diverse. We worked with them, with transparency, agility, flexibility and generosity; as much as we could. We have spared neither time nor effort. That's why I want to give the thanks, from this Parliament of Catalonia, to the entire team of the Department of Culture; for everything. Suddenly, we found ourselves working from the Rescue Plate to the Decontainment Plate, working to decontain ourselves in all these diverse and complex sectors of the cultural world. So, we've worked out up to fourteen different decontainment plans, going through theaters, libraries, popular culture, Catalan language training, entities, museums... The last thing we've sent to the Procicate is on July 23rd, the day of the book and the rose. Now we can go to the cinema – last week we started going there – and we have already opened summer festivals. The Greek, we inaugurated it yesterday, and today we inaugurate the Cruilla Festival. Our cultural socialization already exists, but it is not what it was because of sanitary measures. All in all, we have been able to resume cultural activities. Culture is life, it helped us save our minds and we helped save it. We have tried to learn from experience, and now we have to look forward, without forgetting day-to-day management. And let's look over there, after this storm. We will continue to make a culture more social, more accessible, more sustainable, with people in the centre. For the recovery plan we are preparing a communication plan for the recovery of the publics in the cultural world: institutional communication of the impulses of culture, actions of commercial dynamism in media, line of subventions of communicative action of the different sectors, cultural sectoral projects because culture continues to be an essential sector for the economy of the country and a powerful factor of attraction for our territories. But one of the Department of Culture's main projects for this dam has to do with the audiovisual industry, with the aim of attracting talent and engaging in the creation of new productions to promote the use of català in digital consumption. I'll let you give them some data from the confinement. There was a 52_percent increase in subscriptions to demand video plataforms– a 52_percent increase: Netflix, 2,7_millions; Amazon Prime, 1,2_millions; HBO, 639,000 A 62_percent of Catalans– 62_percent of Catalans– see cinema and series in demand plataforms and a 5_percent will subscribe to it appropriately. Netflix an 80_per_cent, Amazon a 34, etcetera; Filmin, which is the only platform in Catalan, 2,2_per_cent. The Department of Culture wants to focus here: it is basic to promote symbolic references in the audiovisual world. Because the català will be saved if we talk about it. The use, as Horaci said two thousand years ago, is the arbiter of speaking, the right and the norm. This is also giving universal access to culture. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then there's the word "Mrs. Ester Capella," counsel for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.42.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. Many honorable President Quim Torra, advisors, deputies, deputies, first of all, allow me to thank the public workers of this country and the citizenry of this country for how we have managed all the pleas to pull forward, despite the situation. Therefore, an immense gratitude to all and all of them, and obviously also a record for those people who have left us and also for the family members of these people. The severe crisis caused by the coronavirus has caused the Government of Catalonia to face an emergency situation that is not only a health emergency situation but also a social emergency and, at the same time, an economic emergency. And both during the period of confinement as especially now that we are beginning, therefore, decontaining ourselves, in the current scene of descalation, to the Department of Justice we have acted under the premise of five main axes: guaranteeing second opportunities for everyone– we have to rescue people because no one is left behind–; guaranteeing public rights and freedoms for everyone– taking over citizenship, women and men in this country–; ensuring a new way of dealing with conflicts– people must be and are part of the solution, and this means betting on alternative measures and forms of conflict resolution–; in fourth place, guaranteeing the compliment of the mandates of the United Nations and other international organizations and, therefore, also guaranteeing the application of our own rules of law. And what does that mean? , therefore, to bet firmly on a policy of open prisons that favored home confinement, and, in five places, to ensure effective, efficient and sustainable justice. And what does that mean? So, a firm bet, as this country has done a long time ago, for digitization. In this sense, for what it does to the public service of the Administration of Justice, and in the current scene of descalation, we cannot let ourselves be flushed by the inefficiencies of a model of justice that had already fallen before the pandemic. I insist on this question: the delays in the administration of justice will not be caused by the situation caused by the Covid-19, but we have already carried them by serial, if I may express it. I mean, the delay in justice, so, it's not like that. This is why we are working to avoid judicial collapsing, from the defense of social cohesion as a priority value of political action, in attention and therefore in attention and attention to the collectible and the most vulnerable. And that means not taking away our responsibility and promoting normative, organisational and technological measures in areas where we are competent in this country, where the Government of Catalonia and this department are competent. So, some example, huh? I will make a quick selection of some of these measures: to promote the remote work of the staff will work; to grow in telematics services and to generalize the system of complaints that allows the jutjats to establish video communications from the view rooms. We could do it sooner, but now even more. Encourage daytime extensions and reorient and make existing staff reinforcements more flexible. To promote alternative measures and methods in conflict resolution – it was pointed out before – as a new paradigm, not to repair or not to avoid delay in the administration of justice, not: to introduce a new paradigm in conflict resolution and that puts people as apart from the solution, in the center of the solution and part of the solution. And I could say a lot more measures than we've been adopting than we've been before. But also, in this sense and also demanding the co-responsibility of those close to it, we must demand that the State – which we have already done – assume its responsibility and take all the necessary legislative measures to ensure an adequate response from the Administration of Justice in terms of public service. We've done it. We have demanded it from the ministry by letter and from various ways. We've put out papers on the bill that's going on in Congress. We have asked all the parliamentary groups of the Congress and the Senate to make their views known to the Government of Catalonia, and in this case I am asking you, as far as they represent the State, to do to all the parliamentary groups, which do exactly this, which is on the side of the Government of Catalonia to improve and, as I said, to have a proper Justice Administration, of a service in this case which is a reflection of an authentic public service. In the area of criminal execution and prison services, the pandemic situation forced us to take measures that have been very painful for me. I don't think the memory of you arresting her has turned out to be, and it's a double confinement. We have suffered every single one of us in our lives, so we have restricted many of our rights and freedoms. Without going any further, being able to get out when you're volguesis and at the time you've come to like it, that for us it's very important. Imagine yourself, therefore, under the conditions that this double confinement means. We were forced to suspend visits by friends and family for speakers. We're suspending access to, and access to, people who perform volunteer tasks. We also had to temporarily suspend the entry and exit of people deprived of liberty, both young and adult, the entry of packages and take other restrictive measures. They've been hard steps, easy people to take. Like I said, painful measures. And, as I was saying, arresting her is a double confinement. But there has not been enough with these restrictive measures, we have had to do many more, following, as I said, the pronouncements in this case of international bodies, such as the United Nations and the Committee for the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe and, indeed, applying the General Prison Law and the Prison Rules, in order to prevent the risk of the spread of the coronavirus in prison centres. And we took steps to promote the home confinement of persons deprived of liberty, Article 86.4, progress of degree. And when we wanted to do it a little more, because we had already done it in previous times – 100.2, 86.4 –, unexpectedly, the answer of the Supreme Court before this measure taken by the Government of Catalonia, foreseen in the law, which we had done before. So, in this, his performance, and in any case the answer, denotes, as we have denounced other times, this confusion of powers that is sometimes still alive in the Spanish State. Unaudited, improper of a state of law, that the Supreme Court intended to condition the decision of..., that they would take office of all the juntas of treatment of the Catalan penitentiary centers, through a WhatsApp. Unaudited, improper, barroer, because the courts are always pronounced and answer through their judicial resolutions. So, I'm gonna go back to reporting, and I'm gonna report every time I do, where I do and when I do. But, despite all this, despite some interbanks, despite all this, I am proud to say that Catalonia is at the forefront of the member countries of the Council of Europe as a percentage of prisoners released as a preventive measure related to the Covid-19. I say again: Catalonia is at the forefront of the member countries of the Council of Europe and, in this case, in measures taken for the benefit of people deprived of their liberty. And, therefore, we are at the forefront of the compliment of mandates, of international standards, of international law standards, but also of what the international bodies require of us. We have exercised our powers, we will do so whenever we can and with all its extension, and we will never give up exercising these powers. Fortunately, we are already in a phase of recovery of normality. We're normalizing the activities of prison centers. Communications have recovered, as well as the possibility to exit permissions, the implementation of all those intervention programs and the incorporation of third-sector entities in the execution of activities in the centres. All that, and still more. We have maintained some of the measures that we have put into effect and that, therefore, have come to stay. And here is an example that we have valued very positively, such as videoconferencing with family members, especially those people deprived of liberty who have their family members far away; physical distance, distance... different countries and that... Look, I was saying the other day in the appearance we did, so the Covid-19 allowed us to explore a whole series of new resources that we had predicted, that we would have to put them in operation in a long time to do it immediately, and one of these are videoconferencing, which, therefore, allows people deprived of freedom to see not physically but through a screen, and therefore communicate with their family members. Finally, I do not want to end my intervention without referring to the accelerated retreat in civil and political rights that we have experienced in the past few years, and to which has now been added a situation of emergence and social exceptionality due to the pandemic generated by the Covid-19, which again puts at risk public rights and freedoms. That is why we have promoted an expert group to guarantee the rights of the public in an emergency situation. This working group, in addition to analysis and reflection, will produce a report containing the necessary guidelines to ensure respect for fundamental rights and public freedoms in situations of political and social exceptionality. It is to say, to ensure that these rights are neither minor nor sacrificial; to know, according to the proportionality test, when a restrictive and limiting measure may or may not be excessive; to search for formulas that allow the same results to be achieved, but without entailing an excessive impairment of the rights and freedoms. I'm done. The Covid-19 has put up with us, has shown our own limitations, has stolen lives from us, has taken people from us. We're still looking for answers. I am convinced that we will find them; we are doing so. The lessons after what we have been through and what we have been through must enable us to draw the best of each of us, must allow us to rebuild ourselves individually and collectively. And that's where we're all folded up. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, has the word Mr. Chakir El Homrani, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.44.0	Good afternoon, president, councillors, deputies, deputies. I am aware that I am not the first member of the government to speak, I am aware that we have all placed it, but I believe that it is close to us to place it – close to place it – and it is starting with a record. For a record for all those affected, for a record for all family, friends, friends, companies and workers who have suffered the disappearance of a loved one. We have experienced a very complex, very complicated and especially very hard stage, such as society, such as the community, individually and collectively. And I think the memory has to make us stronger than the community, because they've been very, very hard situations, and the first words I want to address to everyone who has suffered directly or indirectly from this pandemic. A brotherly hug to all of us. I would also like to address the thousands of workers and workers, and, if I may, the thousands of workers in the social and labour fields, who have been on the front line, who have been on the front line, who have been each day, inclusive week-ends, working to give answers, to care for people, to give answers from the social and labour sectors; two of the most affected areas of the crisis in the Covid-19 pandemic, two of the most affected areas of this crisis. And to his professionals, to his workers and workers, a recognizance, a huge recognizance. Look, I think the president, the vice president, the advisors and advisors who preceded me have already located who have followed the general lines of this government in time to act before a reality that, as I told the Commission of Work, Social Affairs and Families, to be honest, we have to say, the administration was prepared for a pandemic like it was. We all had to adapt before such a complex reality. But with four very clear lines: to save lives and heal those affected by the disease; to attend and accompany the most vulnerable groups; to attend to the urgency of those who have remained unworked; to attend to the urgency of those who have temporarily remained unworked but were without resources, and to provide for the sub-administration of basic products. They have followed the main lines that this government has made. And from the department that I'm close to coordinating, we've worked around the following lines: one, adapt to as fast as possible to minimize the impact of this crisis, taking into account the social complexity, the need for coordination in a company and in some administrations where the ponds do not exist, either between departments or between administrations; work together with all sectors of the country, third-sector entities, trade unions, employers, other administrations; search for solutions leaving political debates out of the loop – I think they know me–, working together with all sectors of the country, third-sector entities, trade unions, employers, other administrations. And I am aware that Parliament and parliamentary logic have a flaw – and if I may, I will say it in the castle – that it is an iron fist, a crystal jaw. And we all have this defect, iron fist, but crystal jaw when it's written down. But I think at this point most of the work has been done and needs to be done with this extended hand, with the search for solutions and this built-up spirit. I have demanded: coordination, cooperation and co-responsibility. Because the pandemic is pretty hard. I'm going to talk about the actions and the most complex areas we've managed. Residences, one of the most disadvantaged collectivities, victims of malalty, one of the most vulnerable collectivities, in Catalonia, in the Spanish State, in Europe. Now we see it in the United States and Canada. It is the most complex reality that all administrations have had to manage. The Government of Catalonia, yes; the Government of Castella - La Manxa, yes; the Government of the Spanish State, yes; the French Government, yes; the Canadian Government, yes. It is the most complex reality that has to be managed and the hardest. And unfortunately, beyond the figures, you see, with the figures and with reality. And I think we'll have the week you see time to analyze, time to share, time to debate, time to discuss, time to criticize, but time to explain. And I assure you that I will come and come from this government delighted to be able to debate, to be honest, to be able to situate the system's weaknesses, to be able to situate what was done, as it was done, with what possibilities was done and in five moments it was done, around three key aspects: U. Health crisis and healthcare care. Two. Crisis in the EPIs. Three. Occupational crisis. And as we addressed this triple crisis, with all the actions we did, in order, with all the instructions, with all the orders. How did we work together? We failed coordination at the level of the various administrations: at the level of the State, at the level of Catalonia – no problem. Are we gonna work? What were the most complicated moments? In what moments did we pay back? And I think we'll have plenty of time to discuss it. The other great ambit: Work. Gentlemen, at yesterday's date, the Department of Work has managed 98,137 regulatory expeditions, since the crisis began. And here's a thank you to all the professionals. And we managed them without giving up the competition. A 5_per_cent passed by positive management silence; all the others analyzed them and resolved them. There were other territories that decided to silence the administration and that entered all; we wanted to exercise the competitions, the work of the Board of Labor Relations. And here I want to make a stop and a reconnaissance to the union and employers of this country for their ability to search for the lowest common denominator, for their ability to dial at the time of confinement and how we can work together on teletreball, boost teletreball and promote risk prevention measures. As, later, we have also worked together on economic recovery, and as we have always done more with trade unions and employers, with concrete documents, with concrete work, with concrete work. And to place some of the girls' performances at the length of these months and some actions that we will have to do: equip people with resources and material support; provide support; enhance quality work; work for the defense of rights. What have we done? Since the aid of two hundred euros, with a presumption of 20 million euros, we risked to place ourselves in the same decree of emergency measures one week to settle, one week to pay, and we completed it. The development of the shoc plan in the field of work, the decontainment of active employment policies. The first territory that decontains, 60_million euros, with a very concrete look at the small company, the micro-enterprise, the cooperativeism, the joint ventures and the people, and especially the young. Work integration of people with disabilities or mental illness. Delimitation of €75_million. A sector with 204 special work centres of which 90 have been affected by ERTO, and, or we have done with this disconnection, or these ERTOs have the opportunity to become EROS, and that's what we don't want to pass. The March inn of the activities of the lleure of 2020. She seems to be lying, but when we started debating the lecture, we didn't know what the summer scene would be. And here, thank the responsibility of the entities, the responsibility of the locals, the ability we have had to find the point of finding. And now we all see pictures of, in an exceptional situation, because it's not a summer like any other, like the children of this country are going to couples, to camps, to colonies, and they deserve it, because decisions always have good things and bad things. The confinement was absolutely necessary to protect lives, but it had an affect on the infants, and they deserved this summer. We have been making every effort, doubling the pressure, helping to encourage the hiring of workers in irregular care. This crisis has an exceptional thing, that something that is not desirable like society, that is the informal economy, but that is used to being the coixí of the most vulnerable, it also stopped. And this means that the invisible and most vulnerable people, without the ability to be educated, workers of the home in an irregular situation, immigrants without papers, workers of the submerged economy who do not have the capacity to be educated, of course, did not have any inputs, and did not have the capacity to be educated. So, a very concrete line, to encourage the contracting of workers of the cures in an irregular situation. The addition to the program contract, of 10_million_i_mig. Because the joints have done a great job, and for the program contract we need to be able to give them support. That element he placed: the confinement has saved lives. But in the realm of male violence, it was a drama. Women living with their attacker. And we wanted to give him a wider answer, even more of the bet that we had; expanding the substitute services of the street, expanding, and already announcing the three SI's that were missing to double the SI's that we had in 2019. Let's go from eight to seven. There will now be one at Baix Llobregat, one more at Vallès Occidental and one more at Alt Empordà. I think that's all... but there's still a lot more, because the social and work situation is very complex. There have never been so many people in the public administration now, because they are public administration workers, or because they are affected by an ERTO, or because they have remained in the dark, and that means that we have to be very brave to reactivate the economy, which now has to be keynesia. Now it's time for the public administration, the public administration, to expand from the private sphere, and I think we have to do it bravely, because, in the background, quality work has always followed the best social policy. And then, a couple of reflections in the social sphere. One: the growth in coverage has to be accompanied with growth in structure; otherwise, we don't do things right. Two: if we believe in social matters, if we believe in the third pot of the welfare state, we have to have more public balls, we have to have a more public governance system, with public social collaboration, which is a characteristic of this country and of this society, but much more paler public balls and public governance, and I think that in this we should be able to debate in an honest way, where the backs are, but also prioritise these fronts, because, if not, we talk a lot, but we do not finish the change that after this situation I believe that all of us share, the need to truly recognize the social sector, and the way to recognise the social sector is to place it at the same level. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. The words "Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón", Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, continue to appear. The Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge ( Maria Àngels Chacón i Feixas ) Thank you very much. Many Honourable President, Councillors, Members, Members, First, and add to what my fellow Members have already said, therefore, a first record for all those victims who leave us the pandemic and those people who suffer its consequences in one way or another, because this pandemic has effects at the health level but also at the economic and social level. If we focus on simultaneous impacts at global level, focusing on business activity, we will see that there are three phases. A first phase of the offer, above all marked, therefore, for the interruption of the supply chains. A second phase, where there was also a reduction in the offer, because in order to preserve people's lives and security, there was a closure and a paralysis of the great economic activity, above all we saw it in the restriction of mobility, the cancellation of events, the closing of shops and inns, the closing of non-essential industries. And from here, too, my first of the thanks goes to all those essential trades and industries that have made efforts and hours to provide the conjunction of the people. And, all that, followed by a first third phase, we're looking for the demand. This fall in demand, resulting, therefore, from the rise in the number of people at work and the social crisis, and also from uncertainty and the decline in consumption. Currently we are in a phase where there is an encouragement of this demand, both internal and external in this phase of recovery of the activity. All the same, I will quickly expose them to the measures, petitions and complaints, as well as the regulatory activity and new strategic focus that we have worked on since the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge. For what it does to the actions and measures taken, the first of the objectives, at first, was the support to the import process, accreditation of suppliers and logistics from the forty offices of the External Centres of Action of support to the Department of Health. He has given support to the management of Catalan and foreign business donations with a presence in Catalonia that have shown that, in the band of being competitive, they are also solid and compromised. Also thank you to all this group of entrepreneurs who have made donations in these difficult times. Collaborations have also been carried out in the technological and sectoral fields to raise projects and business collaborations that have helped to solve this health crisis. An example of practical vouchers, therefore, also recognized at international level, was the marketplace, this virtual marketplace, which allowed companies and manufacturers in Catalonia to contact to promote business collaboration and to deal with health emergencies. Currently, there are more than 2,500 registrants and more than 1,400 published offers. To all this entrepreneurial generosity, we must also be grateful. In this sense, the work of Virtual Desk and Barrier Offices to Internationalization for all those business projects that were not aware of the capacity to travel internationally or to look for suppliers also continued from Action. A special mention also thanks to all the staff of the Single Business Window and the Business Channel, because from the first days of the confinement the team of the Office of Business Management was organized to offer a personalized, directed, targeted digital service to businesses, local and professional, with more than 10,000 consultations, 400,000 visits and more than 170,000 shippers. All the expeditions processed from ERTO to Catalonia were able to channel, in the first place, through the Office of Business Management so long as the solution, which we have then seen on behalf of the Spanish Government that has not been as quick as expected, so it can be processed. Also from the Department of Knowledge, from the Department of Universities and Research, there has been little talk about it, but the decision needed to stop face-to-face activity at all educational centers has involved and affected 200,000 regulated face-to-face students and a faculty that exceeds 20,000 people. Then again, at this second stage, it was necessary to channel a whole series of aid because this pandemic crisis has strongly impacted sectors that have seen their activities totally or partially paralyzed, such as industry, such as trade, such as tourism. And that's why, with the intention of giving a quick, flexible response, compatible with the aid of other administrations and starting from the limited resources of the same department, they articulated aid to the trade sector, 9_million euros; to the tourism sector, 3.5_million and 10_million euros, together with the suspension of the tourist establishment tax, also worked from the Department of Economy, and of supporting the industry with 10_million euros. These aids are totally inadequate and we know that, but we wanted to articulate them as quickly as possible. We have also been monitoring and carrying out follow-up reports; it is therefore important to observe very much the evolution of the activity linked to the tourism sector for which it makes reservations, to the reputation of the networks and returning to the Department of Knowledge also to the coordination of the University System through the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. The reprogramming of university access tests, which will be held next week and which will affect more than 39,000 students, or, to speak of an example also growing reference, the Orpheus Programme, where it has been activated, where all the search centers, more universities, more the Department of Action in the search for a reaction have been activated in good time so that PCR texts can be realized. Also in this preparation of extraordinary call for support for research projects linked to the Covid-19. From here my thanks go to all the universities, public, private, research centres, technological centres for their proactivity and their involvement. And at present we still find ourselves with – as I said – this encouragement of demand, where we have also presented different proposals to the Commission for economic reactivation and social protection, the Coreco, and where we have also started working with the Health Department and the Vice-President's Department so that we do not happen again that we are, therefore, dependent on what is the international provision for security equipment, the provision of masks and products needed to cope with a possible rebound. Therefore, starting to work already predict what can then be reboots at a later date. For what he does to the petition department, complaints and claims, I'll give you two examples. The first I think we'd like to exemplify that it's the trade support manifest. A manifesto therefore signed for all entities linked to the sector in Catalonia, where it was asked and on..., also integrated in many of the speeches of the president, therefore the suspension of the payment of taxes of autonomous professionals and enterprises of the sector, direct aids to the sector, flexibility for which it does to the extension of ERTO, etc. Just as – and this morning in ugly terms the president also refers in his parliament – to the demand, to the avoidance of territorialization of all these direct aid from the European Union and to the Spanish State, we are therefore demanding important quantities; we speak of more than 10,000_million euros only for the tourism sector and for the trade sector, necessary for economic recovery. For what it does to regulatory activity, because we have also continued to develop regulatory activity during the time of confinement, during this crisis that we are still patenting and living, we have worked in which is the Advance Bill for Facilitating Economic Activity, because it is true, they are not all money. So to lighten and accelerate this economic activity, we've worked on this pre-project, approved the government as well. The next week we will have occasion to hold the debate on this preliminary draft. We have also closed down what is approved of the National Knowledge Society Pact, for the sake of all participants. We are also working on the Advance Bill of Science and the Advance Bill of Energy Transition. For what he does – and I ended up – the new focus on which is strategy. We're in front of a new reality. Covid has acted as a catalyst, a change accelerator that we've been announcing since many months since the department. And the integration of new concepts, new strategies, both public and private, will be hotter than ever. From here, as I said, we concepts, such as self-sufficiency, industrial, energy and food sovereignty, of knowledge generation, will be essential; we models of governance; technological transformation; economic, sustainable and green transaction; the circular economy; concordance with sustainable development goals or those of Europe 2030 will be more necessary than ever. Redefinition and strategic reorientation will be hot. And that's why we haven't, so we've stopped our interaction, for example, with the most twenty-nine clusters we have in Catalonia, many of them, many unknown initiates. Unique and group initiatives in the wake of the Covid crisis, such as, for example, the cluster of advanced materials, the food service cluster, with the campaign« Save our restaurants, or the cluster of light technologies, with all the photonic techniques to cope with the medical effects of the pandemic. We have interacted, we will also follow with the start-up ecosystem, with the international trade offices in Catalonia, the barrier working group to internationalization, the meetings of the technical table and energy transition policy, and the Council Counsellor for Energy Transition. For the first time I had a place a few days ago, so the Hydrogen Table, because it also integrates this new strategy. And all this – and before that, it's the Councillor El Homrani – also with the socio-economic agents, with the members, too, of the Catalan Business Council. And it is in this consensus that we will continue to work for the future National Pact for Industry; we have agreed the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge; we will reorient the strategic Platègique de turisme, as well as the Plat de commerce. We believe in the innovative, inclusive, sustainable and global economy that must guarantee resources for this welfare state. We continue to work to ensure the viability of businesses, but we are clear that not only through the innovation generation and knowledge we will ensure the competitiveness of businesses in this 21st century, as well as the workplaces. Because, despite the time we've had with this pandemic, we want Catalonia to be, because it's and still is, a subject in this new knowledge economy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.46.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is now the return of the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puignero. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.47.0	Well, thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, if one thing has shown this health crisis that we have had is the need for digital policies, the importance that they have had and what paper they have played digital policies. And in this sense, in the first place, allow me, therefore, to thank the President of the Generality that to the principle of the legislature, therefore, made the decision to create for the first time a consultancy of Digital Policies, eh? I believe that this is a fact that the Government of the State has now decided, therefore, to promote in the framework of a ministry, also, an initiative that looks like, and that, therefore, we celebrate. Digital policies are no longer a thing of the future, but a thing of the present. The goals that we have set for ourselves by this council in the long run of this health crisis have been above all three, three great axes on which we have worked to help, huh? , in this proposal to combat this crisis, and therefore may be as normal as possible for all citizens and for our businesses. First of all, we've made sure that the networks don't stop. And that, obviously, may seem simple, but we've seen it, haven't we? , the col·lapse of other systems, and, therefore, we have worked intensively so that the country's networks endure. The second thing we've devoted ourselves to has been that you don't want the Generalitat. And the third, try not to get the economy. Let me talk about a little bit about each of these axes and what concrete measures we have applied and worked on from the Digital Policy Consulting. The first, therefore, avoid the risk of Internet collapse in Catalonia. I will only give you a few figures: during the first days and the first weeks of the crisis, the Internet traffic to our country grew from midjana– midjana– around 80_per_cent, and reached increments of 300_per_cent on certain days and at some points in our territory. As you will understand, here we had to take action, the operators had to take action, as well, huh? , the Generality so that the network did not collaps and we can guarantee to all our citizens and to our enterprises that, at a time when we were confined home, we could continue to develop their activities, already related to the field of work, to the field of education or to the field of the eye, which can be developed with the highest normality. The second thing we have worked on has also been that no city is left without data, is left without the internet, because of its economic or social situation. The first day what happened is that a lot of people are going to polish, huh? The data packets. And, therefore, we worked with the operators so that no city would be cut off from the internet, and because no city would get an invoice from those who make for it at the end of the month. And, therefore, we want to ensure in this case, therefore, that businesses and citizens can have access to what today is an essential infrastructure for our day to day. And finally, in this area of the networks, we have also accelerated the deployment of the Generality's optical fiber networks, a project that, as you know, and how this Parliament approved also through its premise, so it had the prediction that the works would get started, so, following the usual procedures, in the second semester of this year, and that it could end in 2021. Well, we've been able to speed up these jobs, and so this summer will end all the jobs, two jobs, to connect all the capitals of Catalonia. And, therefore, we can say this year, 2020, that there will not be a single region of our country that does not get the optical fiber of the Generality. And I think this is important news. And here there was a reversal as had never been done before by the Government of Catalonia. We have work to do yet; we must obviously arrive at the rest of the municipalities. And our goal is to continue working with this proposal so that by 2023 we have all the municipalities of more than fifty inhabitants connected to the optical fiber network. As I said, the second thing we've been dedicated to is that the Generality isn't even, and here, clearly, the pulse of teletreball has been a priority. This didn't take us all the time, it did more than a year of work on teletreball. In fact, we had already implemented it for three departments of the Generality, in this case mine, as well as Vice-President, Economy and Justice, and with an agreement, in this case, with the unions. And, therefore, extending 'the rest of the departments, obviously, has been a setback, but, I insist, it has not taken us suddenly. We do not have to improvise, even though, obviously, we have to make a lot of money, because we have to serve every day one hundred and fifty portals to the Generality in order to be able to develop this activity. And, therefore, we are happy, because it has been an experience, in this sense, therefore, that will allow us now that the teletreball, as it is also regulating itself in part, in this case, also of the State. Our teletreball decree is already in progress and will be approved accordingly. It is a decree, obviously, that affects what it does to the Administration of the Generality, and, therefore, we have already been pioneers and want to continue being pioneers in this sense. And thirdly, we've also... I'm sorry, and in this area we've also been very careful about the whole containment and decontainment process of public service, and here we've been approving the instructions for such a safe way of doing it, vetting for the working risks of the employees, and also, obviously, putting on the table the conditions with which the confinement was to be produced, and also how this decontainment occurred. And finally, third place. I couldn't, we tried not to get the economy going. Here the first decision we took was, and at the instructions of President Torra, to get the Mobile not only renewed its willingness to continue to Catalonia, since it had been cancelled– and it was one of the first decisions, remember, the month of February, huh? , an 11 of fever, when there were still no cases of coronaviruses in our country. That decision that could obviously put Mobile at risk for the future, because, obviously, therefore, many companies had taken the decision not to go to Mobile, and, obviously, this could have some consequences. We put ourselves to work, the president summoned us to the Palau de la Généralita to all actors, economic and social agents, so as to put it as a priority that Mobile is staying in Catalonia. And we didn't just get this, but, plus, we got to extend the Mobile contact one more year. Mobile is the world's most important technological and business development, and therefore, in a sector like this, the technology sector, a sector so important to our country, was decisive in providing our home with the development, the most important convention in this area. Also during this period of the Covid we have advanced very important news for our country, for what it does in this case, therefore, to this new digital economy. We have been working and we have been working for a while, but we have been able to close these agreements, such as, for example, the arrival of a subsea cable at our home, or, for example, the decision that Catalonia, together with the Baltic corridor and the Benelux corridor, is one of the three corridors that can be financed by the European Commission, with a major project, because, moreover, it has an impact on the mobility of the future and respects the automotive industry, which is the 5G corridor of the Mediterranean. An innovation corridor to prove this new mode, to prove what are the new industries in the car, and which, therefore, must be, so to speak, the basis on which to build and help us not to have a new Nissan case at our home again. And finally, highlight in this sense also the strength of the Catalan technological sector. During this period of the crisis that we have experienced, the technological sector has not only grown in occupation, but also. According to the later EPA, it is a sector that is stronger than ever. I'm saying it's for good news, too, huh? I understand that, obviously, therefore, there are sectors that have suffered a lot: the tourism sector, the trade sector, also that of large industries, but look at the digital economy, this new economy, this technological sector, so it is not only growing, but it is a sector, a sector of the future, a sector of employment opportunities, and so it shows all the figures that we have, in this sense, both for what it does to the occupation and for what it does, say, therefore, to the initials and investments in this area. And in this sense, we have approved, because this is a sector that, obviously, is a sector, we could say, huh? So, with little female presence, and that's what we're worried about. We have approved, precisely, the later government the Donatic plan. A plan that what you want and what you are pursuing is precisely that in this sector that will be decisive for our country we can have more presence of women, where there is also the female talent of our country, because this is a country that cannot afford the luxury that in such an important industry and in such an important economy of the future, fifty per cent of our society, therefore, there is no preeminent role in the drawing, huh? , of which will be this new digital society, also at the level of its industry. And finally, I can't help but answer some intervention that happened this morning, and especially that of Mr. Carrizosa. When he refers to my advice's premise as a pharaoh's premise, huh? I think you have to do your dues, and you have to look at the Generality's premise. If my assumption is pharaoh, it's the second smallest assumption, huh? Of all the departments of the Generality. So, listen, look, I don't know what your parameters are that you consider a pharaonic assumption, but in any case, you said textually that you want to detail this assumption of digital policies. You want to go against the progress of this country, against the economic progress of this country. When it has been shown that digital policies were more decisive for the economy and to respond to the challenges facing this country, you make a proposal to detail the government of Catalonia's digital policy premise. Listen, you want us disconnected from the progress of the 21st century, but we will continue to work for a digital country in the form of a republic. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.48.0	Thank you. I, finally. In this turn, the Government has the words of the Agriculture Councillor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordà. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.49.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Very honourable President, Councillor, Councillor. Counseling, deputies, deputies, in sum, obviously, before anything, to the words of esteem and record that the people, the companies that have spoken before a servant, therefore, have addressed to all those who have suffered, still suffer, therefore, the consequences of this pandemic. I'm going to try to eat at the time we've been given and be extremely diligent, since I blow the last one, because it's obvious that to explain all that work we've done, not just during these weeks, right? , and not just addressed exclusively to the Covid, but we've done the department already in an ordinary way these weeks too, we would obviously need a lot more time, but it would take five minutes and I'll try to burn myself in time. I'll start with a finding/evidence. In fact, it is obvious, and I believe that it has already been extremely clear throughout this period, that the agri-food sector is an essential sector, an extremely essential sector of this country. In fact, a sector is going to say it and repeat it, that it hasn't failed, huh? , a state structure, if I may, of first order. We need to take advantage of this opportunity to raise it, all of this, to the extract it deserves. And this happens because the joint venture of our society also makes us trust by consuming, of course, the best of the products that are not of others, as I take advantage of every time I have the opportunity, than those that produce our pages, our branches, our fishers. In a synthetic way, therefore, I would like to convey to you what we have done and what we are doing from the department to reactivate the sector and also to make a leap forward. From the outset, tell them that we have built a shoal for the sectors we have detected in crisis, because it goes also to say that, despite being an essential sector and having been working since the zero minute or, let's say it in another way, having not stopped working, this does not mean that some subsectors in this sector obviously do not have a pact. We have, therefore, made this plan for the crisis sectors designed, as I said, for those subsectors most affected by the pandemic, and which, of course, goes through very specific reconstruction measures, as I will now try to detail them very quickly. The first, a support plan for the wine sector, which, as you know, for the closure of the Horeca Canal, among other things, therefore, obviously, has suffered, and much. Here we have enabled various lines, huh? As you are now helping the promotion, you are also helping the crisis distillation, the storage of private living or the verem in green, but also structural measures, and not only structural measures, but measures, I would say, strategic and future, that go beyond that, eh? , as the substitution of sugar for most concentrate, something that is said to be MCR, which is the most concentrated rectified. This is fixed by the fact that, besides, it allows us to take root because there is an important surplus of root and it also allows us to make this circular economy, huh? , continue to age for the circular economy, and also give us even more to our sector which knows that the wine sector in this country is a strong and very powerful sector. So it also gives us even more traceability and gives us still a more I believe than added value. Here we have done a lot of emphasis in all the trunks of the value chain, that is to say, that means a lot of focus for the winegrowers, but also for the cells, above all the small and medium cells, which have suffered a lot, and also the names of wine origin. This plan has been endowed with 5,000,000 euros. Another sector that has suffered, too, has had a very heterogeneous activity at the length of the crisis, but in any case the first few days it did suffer a lot, which is the fishing sector. In this case, we are promoting a plan that enables various help lines to be enabled for the different maritime sectors, and also for what we call the 'brava economy, which will understand that I am not, but here also the activity of the shellfish, to hear us; the fish farms, also very important; the confraternies of fishermen, the operators of the whole fish chain and, obviously, also the enterprises that are dedicated or that are engaged in maritime activities in Catalonia, eh? , recreational, basically, that also, obviously, have suffered. With the aim, like no other, of helping them overcome the socio-economic consequences caused by this pandemic. Here, this plan is equipped with 3,100,000 euros. We have also enabled credit bonus and interest zero for the flower and ornamental plant sector. We eat a few flowers, we say, but the flower and the ornamental plant, so they also depend on this department and sometimes we don't forget to talk about it, huh? , of this green vitamin that is also extremely important. And they have suffered a lot, basically, as you can imagine, because their production is very much focused on the months that have come to us from this pandemic, namely, March, April, May and June, basically. And here, therefore, they have seen their billing reduced in a very considerable way. Well, so these believe what we're trying to do is help them as much as we can, also with a strong promotion campaign that we've already agreed with them that we're going to make it more face-to-face with Nadal, because of the circumstances that I don't have time to explain right now, but in any case, the goal is to reactivate activity through this liquidity. We have also supplemented a very specific help from the ministry that was extremely inadequate with respect to the sheep and goat. It also seems to us to be very important to highlight the momentum and encouragement of space or relationship platforms between consumers and proximity producers, and to facilitate this marketing and to provide buyers or buyers with centralized information under the criteria that we have always defended from the department, and also from the government, these proximity criteria, and to put in value, therefore, the pagery and the agri-food sector that has provided food during these weeks, huh? This... basically a marketplace, too, huh? But from this contact between consumers and producers. Also, we have already explained this by active and passive, we have made a public purchase of food from producers, especially small producers, both of agriculture and of ramaderia, both branches and pages, that due to the alteration, basically, and to the closure, as we have said, of the most common distribution channels, so they have found it difficult to take their products and, obviously, it has been generating a surplus, huh? And you'll all remember, then, that first picture that we saw one day on the news of that pick-up opening up a big slide and coming out of the goat, right? Obviously, what we have done is, with this purchase of €4 million, it has not yet been exhausted, these €4 million, but they have had a lot of bad luck, and also to bring it to the Food Bank, this way we also cover these two needs; for one song, that of the small producers, for the other, that of the fellow citizens who are most painted. But, come on, we're not staying here – and I'm done, huh? – We want to go even more there, huh? And just on the 26th of June, in the heart of Korea, we presented from the department the full route of agri-food and maritime transformation, and also the impulses of the bioeconomy at our home in Catalonia. This is a strategy that we will have time to explain and develop, but in any case, an integral strategy, and it is for the sustainable food of the country, with the basic objective of prioritizing and accelerating all those actions that drive digital transformation, the transition, obviously, the ecological transition and the better of the living conditions of the citizens; look – that is, say – complement these three axes, right? The full route is framed in the global green agendas, which all of you know, huh? European global agendas, but they also want to improve governance and participation of all actors. And already to finish a very short point, a brush of future, if I may. This is clearly a situation where we need to discuss the fact that we are already in the PEAP framework, of this strategic platform for country food, that I have not heard of more than once, huh? , in relation to how we want to feed, and not just how we want to feed but how we want to provide those foods from which we feed, right? We are just those who think and are convinced that as a people we have all the right – all the right, because, in fact, it is essential – to decide how we should feed, this food sovereignty well understood: the right to decide how we want to feed. And more, thank you..., let me also make a thorough thank you – whenever I can, I think we have to do it – to all those women and to all those men who during these difficult weeks have been following their arms to the earth or their gangs to the sea. Thanks to all those who have continued to elaborate, who have continued to distribute, who have continued to commercialize, who have filled and re-filled, therefore, the leashes of any establishment: botiga, supermarket, small worker. He's all of it, huh? Our sector is not just a sector that has a future, but the agri-food sector, which has a sense of doubt, is the future. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.50.0	Thank you, Counselor. You finish the government's interventions, let's get back to the parliamentary groups. It has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa. When he wants to. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, I didn't say that; it's 15 minutes for the parliamentary group and, consequently, seven and a half minutes for the subgroup. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.51.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, look, after the intervention of Mr Torra and the rest of the members of the Government, I have made a lack of project and commitment in the fight against the Covid, and what has left me is commitment and project of republic, of division, of process. Hey, what were we talking about today? – What were we talking about today? Today we were talking about the terrible crisis of the Covid and what the Generalitat is going to do to mitigate the, right? Wasn't that the purpose of this plenary session? For again we have seen the same Mr Torra who claimed that he did not come here to manage an autonomy and the activist who probably does not want to talk about anything other than the process and the prisoners. I also say to you that everything is quite picturesque and somewhat Catalan, because the one who claims that we are a subjugated, occupied country, those who say that we have to have the independence of that country that oppresses us..., turns out that you, as president of this institution, are addressing fellow Members of Parliament themselves to say to them: "You govern; you do things. I'm telling you, you're ruling, and so on. So in the end here Mrs. Albiach and her party, Podemos, are ruling that country so far away, and they are the people here; Mr. Illa is from the PSC, is the Minister of Health, is ruling and is from the PSC. It's just that, you see, the Spanish government here is a little bit like when it comes to the spread Gordo, and now we've fallen here in the Parliament of Catalonia. There are people from the Parliament of Catalonia who are influencing the Spanish parliament, the Congress of Deputies. Like you, when you were reasonable and political people and not activists. They ruled and influenced. They didn't want to come in. Despite being offered it, he did not want to enter Convergence in the Spanish governments. But they influenced; but with the governments of the PP and the PSOE. Influenced. As we, those of Ciutadans now, with Mrs Inés Arrimadas and Mr José María Espejo, who were vice-president of this Parliament and deputy, president of the Ciutadans Group, are making changes to policies in the Government of Spain through their positions as parliamentarian in the Congress of Deputies. So I think what you have is a problem to understand something so modern... Mr. Puigneró is very modern with his digital policies, which is believed to be..., the truth, which is very modern with the digital; he is anchored in 1714, in the absolutist state, which seems to him the most, and the regime of freedoms that Catalonia enjoyed three hundred years ago. And you have not understood a decentralized state, in which we all rule a little sometimes, because it is democracy. Maybe you can't rule now in Spain, but if you had chosen other paths you might be influencing. The PNV does it. The PNV influences. And not you, because you have withdrawn, you have self-excluded. And then what happens is that Mrs. Albiach is told: "See, you do what you do, you do what you do. Mrs. Albiach, I warn you, and Mr. Illa, tell you what, they're Spanish now. They, who rule Spain and come from here, from Catalonia, with other people from the rest of Spain, are Spanish, because it is this country... Look, I do not understand either, then, what concept of Europe you have, of the renunciation of the very sovereignty that all countries put into that formidable invention that is the European Union. Therefore, the truth is that you do not paint anything in the European Union. Neither – nor. You guys are like Brexit's. Britain left the European Union because it could not give up, could not stand some, the most chauvinist of the British, could not stand to give up some plots of power, could not stand to put money in another institution other than the country itself. " What about me? , « my thing, « our suns. That is the selfish and unmodern theory of making Mr. Puigneró's digital republics, with the ideas of the eighteenth century. Look, I think, and you've said it a little bit... "Some say, 'We live better against Spain', and no, 'We live badly against Spain and they put us in prison and so on. If you do not understand a decentralized state, a modern Europe, united, by democratic countries that respect rights... What moves you is the animating of Spain. I mean, you're against Spain. It is not a question of power or understanding how a decentralized country works. If you are seeing it, if you are recriminating your fellow Members of Parliament: "You who are in charge, do something. Of course we rule, we rule among all, sometimes more, sometimes less, but that is democracy. You understand. And I..., to me, the truth, to give these perorates in a parliament that should be occupied by the Covid, for... I remind you – and I will return to the subject – that we have meanwhile called on all political forces to work against the Covid and we have announced a commitment to the citizens of Catalonia, to all the citizens of Catalonia, that Ciutadans is committed, above ideologies, to supporting any policy that contributes to saving jobs and lives, and that we will collaborate – that is our commitment – to the Catalans, above ideologies – above ideologies. Moreover, we have asked you – without much success, the truth – a truce with the process, that you freeze the process, but you do not, that, in that, of that nothing, you continue in yours. Well, we have also asked them, please, to make gestures, to re-priorize resources – re-priorize resources –; when they speak... – if they arrive, eh? , because as you are... –, when you talk about the budgets of the year 2021, that you have to present them to us here in October, and you committed, and a motion was approved here, at the request of Ciutadans, that said that you had to present the ones this time – to see if the milagrito falls this year, that from Arthur Mas you have not presented some budgets on time, since the beginning of the process – because when you present them make some gesture – make some gesture – say to us: "Look, we have reduced the 25_per_cent in embassies, so that you see – so that you see –; we want... And that money, what is it going to go to? Well, he's going to go to health care, or he's going to go to any other need, to the self-employed, to small businesses, to Mrs. Chacón's department to help fight the Covid. But you're not going to do this, nor are you going to take away Mr. Puignero's resources, nor are you going to play a hard TV3. So, what I want to say to you with this is that, when we talk to you about re-priorizing resources, you answer us is always the same; it is that resources have the state, that evil state that we govern among all, but that now you do not have to, and then you want to be given the money, and you ask Mrs. Albiach. Well, this, for you, is the way to get resources. And I'll tell you what. First: we have an autonomy that handles many billions of budgets, and that must be prioritized and re-priorised. And, therefore, ruling is deciding how much money goes to what thing. It is up to you to prioritize spending to save lives and save jobs. That's it, first of all. But then I also admit that any ruler of an autonomous community, and we rule in four autonomous communities, for 20_million people, in coalition governments..., we do not fall rings, to Citizens, by claiming from the central government what everyone considers lawful, in a decentralized country, to obtain. And that's it. And he claims it. If the bad thing is not that you claim, Mr. Torra. The bad news is, he claims the way he does. The bad news is that he claims with the mantra of Spain he steals from us. The bad thing is that you claim as if you were claiming your own money, which is yours, because you are not... It is the radical nationalist discourse that prevents you from entering the usual game of democracies and decentralized countries, which are so many throughout the world. All countries have their ways of decentralizing. Germany, and the United States, and Switzerland, and... hundreds of countries are decentralized. But you don't seem to know how to get into the game that if..., what do you have to ask for resources? So they ask; do you ask for support to ask for resources? , because sometimes you will get our support, depending on the amount, depending on the justice of the claim, but you will not get it as you call it, as if it were a touch of patriotic defeat: « Catalans must claim the money... We are people who live in a decentralized state and there may be discrepancies. Sure. « We have to get that money. Help me. It's lawful for you to ask. But it is also lawful that sometimes..., if you are going to say that it is 16,500_million, that that figure is not bought..., nor your own economic advisors of the Generalitat de Catalunya, of your own..., well, of the party, of what was Convergence, did not buy it, that figure, because I am not going to buy it, obviously. The third, unconstitutional, additional provision on investments in Catalonia, which the Constitutional Court said could not be conditioned on the budgets of the State..., you have been claiming them as if they were due. If the Constitutional said something very logical: "The State's accounts cannot be conditioned by a statute of autonomy before they are approved. But you still include that game. We will not support him there, because that is a nationalist mantra. Finally, we, I say to you that on the day that we govern Catalonia, we will make the demands, but we will not do them in the tone that you do; we will claim resources for Catalonia, but we will not do it in the tone that you do... And it seems that it causes you as a bit of..., a smile of unbelief. I remember Mr Montilla sitting in the same seat as you sitting there, when we had three Members, and laughing when he was addressing us saying that we were going to disappear. And then, look, Mr Montilla, I think he's coming this Monday to give explanations for his revolving gate in Enagas and he's going to meet that party he was laughing at in that same seat that today is Parliament's largest party and that we're going to ask him for explanations, that he was laughing at this party. Therefore, bearing in mind that today we too... – that everything can change, and at best it changes, and perhaps not so far away; but for the moment we have more than twice as many Members as Mr Montilla, than Mr Montilla's party today, or more than 160,000 votes than you; in this Parliament we represent more than 160,000 Catalans than those of his party, from Junts per Catalunya – ; for perhaps these smiles when we say ‘when we rule in Catalonia...', then, at best..., well, we will see, won't we? Finally, to tell you – in the end – that we do not trust, Mr Torra, in you and that we will control the degree of compliance with the agreements that will come out in this extraordinary Plenary to fight the Covid. In this reconstruction plenary, we are going to propose to all Members that it be a regular check, with regular appearances of you giving us the degree of compliance with the agreements that we have here. We have already said that we do not go with the electoral calculator; we have already said that we want to refocus Catalan politics, and that means doing moderation policies, and also "refocusing means putting the Catalans, the problems arising from the Covid and not the process and the identity obsessions at the centre. We have committed ourselves to working with the citizens, and we are going to do so. And I also tell you that if you don't work, if you don't want to work to fight and rebuild Catalonia, fight the crisis of the Covid and rebuild Catalonia, then go. If you are not really going to have the priority – the priority – of the fight against the worst economic crisis there is going to be, that there have been some of those we know in history, then tell them to leave. If there are elections..., we are not with the electoral calculator, but if there are elections, we will face them and we are prepared to give an alternative government... Yes, yes, laugh, laugh. After the disastrous decade of the process, we hope to win them back as we did in 2017. Let's see. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.52.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, it is a new turn for Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.53.0	Thank you very much, President. I am announcing that I will only reply to the President, but no, I do not want anyone to think that I would like to demerge the other interventions that have been made: we have heard interventions from the government groups in the pre-campaign; we have also felt the round of advisors, that I do not know if they would join or leave the snitch to the chair in case. But I think that in the type of debate that today called us, it is appropriate to focus the political question on which the President gave it. You, replying to me, say: "No, I don't know why you say that there has been confrontation. Home, let's just set this little example; say: "With independence there have been fewer victims in Catalonia. Home, deu-n'hi-do. He didn't. And you say, and you're right, that the Government of Catalonia, legitimately, when it considers that the Government of Spain does not do the things that it has to do, or that it does them late and badly, or that it should not do them because they correspond to the Government of the Generality, it has every right to say so. Now, you were quoting Mr. Igea, who said that you had had good behavior. He could have also mentioned the president of Cantàbria, who also allowed him to qualify his interventions at the Conference of Presidents. There's a lot of ways. Avans, Carlos Carrizosa said: "It's also a problem. No; here's a problem that many have the perception that independence has also wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to win the argument. And it's a feeling, an opinion we have, in which logically we may be wrong. Then he complained to me about one thing..., which he said: "It is that they decided the state of alarm of one day for the other. Well, how to do it. If I ever have to decree the state of alarm, I'd do that too. Now, in this I think you have a small contradiction, President, because you, which, indeed, was one of the first to demand total confinement..., have always voted against – in relation to your group – the legal instrument that makes it possible. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, they never voted for it. Well, all right; the morning Batet. They have never voted in favour of the legal instrument allowing confinement. And, therefore, I listen, when a government has to make decisions – before you say "democrats" – well, in the mark of laws. And who can decree the state of alarm and then have to ask permission if the intention is to extend it is the Government of Spain. And it is true that confinement has involved the radical limitation of rights as important as that of free movement or assembly and demonstration, and this cannot be decided without a legal endorsement, without legal support. And, therefore, decisions taken, even though I am still voting, without legal support, that this Parliament has no pressure, cannot be qualified as democratic. You also did this: "No, it is here that we decided democratically...; here we decided democratically to skip the Constitution and the Statute, which, from the point of view of democratic quality, is a little bit. Resources.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. His intervention has focused a lot on resources, and I want to thank him, because we will have this debate. Now, a little tip: before I send the letter to Mede, I talk to the governing partners, because I listened very carefully to the interventions..., to doubt the CUP, that in Carles Riera has been blunt, but it also seemed to me that the Republican Left Group, this of asking at these times a loan, therefore, did not consider it a good mechanism to finance the crisis that we are going through. I'll also say, it's not very timely when we're... – and I speak in a very majestic plural, I mean, Jessica and I –, we're working because Europe gives us unconditional and non-returnable resources. So, let's leave the prestec chapter perhaps for further ahead. You were talking about resources and fiscal deficit. Miri, on this subject the debate is eternal, but the last time from the point of view of global comptability the Government of Catalonia made the calculations, the year 2015, made first a few calculations and they said: "If Catalonia gets everything it needs, we would have a surplus of 2,405_million euros. The following year they reviewed it, I suppose, with definitive data and said: "Well, this surplus has been reduced to EUR 428 million. That's what the Economy Department of the Generality told us in 2015, which was a year, from the economic point of view, very powerful. The counselor is Deia Mas-Colell and the secretary general seems to me to be Albert Carreras. Therefore, I say this because many times we find objects that I do not say are not desirable, but that they adjust slightly to reality. And to me it is because among all folds we do not generate a false expectation that can only then flow, a little more, into frustration. In fact, the councillor Mas-Collell said: "At the end– with the data of that year–" we are doing there to pay for income and income per population, which was one of the criteria that informed the negotiations of autonomous financing. Resources provided for the State. If I am not wrongly fixed, first decision: extraordinary funds for the salvation of 300_millions, for the autonomous communities; 51,3_millions of euros were for Catalonia; after a fund for social services of 300_millions of euros, of which Catalonia in rebia 45 and mig; after a contribution of 3_millions of euros for fooder scholarships, and 12,8_millions of euros for the State Pact against Masclist Violence. Admittedly, the Education Advisor spoke before the running of the boards for the payment of the feeding grants. The Southern Generalitat, the Valencian Generalitat, decided to do so by bank transfer and was much faster and also more effective. The government, moreover, decided to update the financing, taking into account the pre-crisis GDP. It's very important; first, it's the GDP we know, and obviously it's going to be a bigger GDP than we're going to have this year. I, therefore, this increase in Catalonia, respect to xifres 2019, was 8_per_cent; 1.632_million more, reaching a total of 21.816_million euros. They then decided that the deviations from the deficit were also compensated; Catalonia would receive €819 million for this. Certainly, a deficit – before the vice president said it – was 0.6_per_cent, and now we're asking for 1_per_cent; or, then, we're asking for four tenths more. Because, if I don't, I'm told, and I love it. But I mean, he doesn't seem to get away with what's going on either. Logically, the interest and ambition of the Government of Catalonia will be higher, but it is not overflowing or, ultimately, more fulsome. We learned that this non-refundable fund of €16,000_million is ugly. Today the vice president said to us: "From this, we calculate that 3,200 will be for Catalonia. You were asking for 5,000. This was the foundation for the expense screen. All right. It's not 5,000, it looks like it's 3,200. Now, what I wanted to ask for, when I got to this point, is very transparent. We'd like to know that they've spent more, that they've missed more to face the Covid-19. And that's what we should be able to find out about the chamber and the joint venture of society, because one thing is what we ask, what we demand, but we'd like to know what else we've spent and how. After you say it..., you say: "Now in need– apart from these 5,000, which are 3,200 –, you said, "30 thousand more, that they would have to come from these 140,000_million euros coming from Europe." Jo, president... first, let's wait for them to agree and for them to actually come. It's not that I want to ask, I doubt a question, but there's the saying, well Catalan and very close to the Department of Agriculture, can't say blab until it's in the bag and well connected and well guarded. And so, let's not start distributing something we still don't have. And then, let's try, in the fears that they have to deal with finance, don't get into a species of subtop. Jo, when listening to some interventions, thought: "Well, as we are already in the election period, so if you ask this, so I, plus two hard eggs. Let's face it, because then people have to explain things to them as they are. And I think everyone's capable of recognizing that we're not accessing all the resources we want and we certainly need. I insist, we are always talking about money coming from the State or Europe. Or Europe through the State. And we also want to know what rejuvenation is done with the Generality's own resources. These 46,000_million euros that there was in the presupposition..., that we have to take, logically, the debt service – I wouldn't want to squeeze more of the account now – but they are still worth a lot of millions of euros, and we need to know what the government's effort is to re-establish as a function of the need to strengthen the health, education, social services, universities, innovation..., which the government decides or its experts have proposed to it. And, President, I finish with a set of proposals, because we may actually have devoted a lot – and the debates are raised like this – to these more general speeches, but really what will remain and what may possibly be useful is the proposals we make if they are approved and if they are then brought to practice. I said that this morning, we present it, like everyone else, fifteen, but with one we have tried to make a species of capmas or summum, because people understand what we want. First. Totally agree with you: a new covenant for salvation. If it is intended from the document made for colleges of meth and scientific societies, then forward. Basically, what do they say? Strengthen public health structures, give new impetus to primary care, ensure full recognition of professional labour rights, and more resources for equipment and infrastructure. I'm sure there are many more things, the search correspondents, etc. So let's get down there. Two. Home care services. I said it before, and I don't know if I've been interpreted or understood very well, but universal sanitation doesn't end at the doors of the residences or at the doors of the house. And so, certainly, and the counselor explained, a very important effort has been made that has led a lot of people to be cared for at home, but it does make us the effect that we can still improve the home care service. Third. The care and medical assistance to residents is largely part of a privatization from mutuals. We would like to review this model, discuss it among all, because it has the effect that outsourcing healthcare to residents is not the best system of provision for this service. Four. We would like to give concrete expression to the amount of additional resources for the Department of Education and for universities in the perspective of the new course. Five. We would like to create a line of help of 50_million euros for self-employed small businesses in the industrial sector. Six. A _second line of help– which means that there is a first; it would be to continue with the effort – of 30_million euros for self-government and small and medium-sized enterprises for their technological and digital transformation and innovation programs. Set. We believe that it would be useful to create a Catalan foundation for the assemblies, independently of – which I agree with you – that it would be necessary to make it possible for the Romans and the municipal surpluses to be applied for the assemblies to the functions of fighting the Covid and its effects, and I must say that in the Senate a proposal has just been signed, by many groups, in this sense, but also from the resources of the Generality there must be an obvious show that it is committed to the proximity and the local world. I look like I'm on number eight. The Pla car of Catalunya. The adviser spoke to us about figures; our experts talk about EUR 125 million, but here, as always, the figures can be adjusted. What we really want, yes, is to reactivate the automotive industry in Catalonia. I say because there are those who do not want to reactivate the automotive industry of Catalonia, but, in change, they do want to save the Nissan. We want to reactivate the automotive industry in Catalonia, because the problem is not to take responsibility, but to take on contradictions, when it is government. And I've always defended them. When a government incurs contradictions. And it seems to me, President, that you will not deny me, because your trajectory as President has been very intense, but very intense. [[rieals and the sounds of the background]] No, he's been there so far. No, no – no, no –; I don't want..., the future. "The uncertain future is, says Master Yoda, Star Wars. No; you never know, the future. Then, of course, one of the sectors that we are most concerned about is the commercial sector. We think it would be good to make a reconstruction plan. Because we have to help them. We need to help, above all, the small trade in sales placards, to adapt to new consumption patterns, to the topic of timetables... and, therefore, we need to try to mobilise resources with this objective. It did. We would like very transparently with this extraordinary expense that is happening and what can happen. And we'd like you to be available on the generality's website. Eleven. To submit a monthly report – to this end, the truth is that Ciutadan's friends have also referred to this morning – how the pandemic evolved and how, above all, the deployment of economic recovery and social reconstruction measures evolved. And lastly, see how we can foster the mechanisms of cooperation and co-responsibility with the Government of Spain, because it is true that many of the things that we do and want to do here are happening, and they want to do so from the Government of Spain as well, and it would be good to make sure that we get the heads right, that all the funds arrive where they are and that there are no problems, sometimes, of overlap, duplicity or lack of ambition. President, this is the combination of our proposals; there is more. We encourage you to something that only depends on you: really leaders the possibility of this pact for salvation and the pact for reactivation. That doesn't cost money, but it can give a lot of returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.54.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the words of Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.55.0	Thank you, President. I don't want to extend' mass. The truth is, today we've heard a lot of things – some of them curious. Who was going to say that when we have a crisis that looms over, brutally, with a government fractured to the Generality, with a lack of clear full road, with a huge setback ahead, such as that of reconstruction, when even members of the Government want elections, above Mr. Carrizosa, president, and, if you lower a 25_percent of the assumptions of the embassies, already have us partners. After you say that Ciutadans is coming to us. No, no; Ciutadans is going to break up with you – Ciutadans is going to break up with you. [[Widow's remorse.]] You already have it easy – you have it easy – ; if you want to continue, you have it easy. But it's not that I want to remember the 29th generation: "This government, this legislature, has no recourse; there is no loyalty between the partners and there is no trust between the partners. Therefore, it is not that I say that this government is broken, I am the only thing I do is to see what you said on the 29th, and that, moreover, during all these months it has not reverted. Unfortunately, the pandemic crisis, the Covid crisis, did not serve to co-ordinate the government. And then I'll set some example. Yes, he wanted to do some of the things you've been dealing with today, and I don't want to repeat myself with what he said this morning. We've been listening to him say that on July 21st we'll have adapted the assumptions to the crisis, on July 21st... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You mean? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Prioritised the presuppositions to the crisis situation that is now looming over, and that we are already patenting, and that, in fact, there are already many families that are patenting it. Three months late, president; we're three months late. The assumptions of the Government of Catalonia were approved on April 24. The same day 25 should have started working on the priority of assumptions. We already carried a month and a half of crisis; we knew and could listen to all the international organizations, all the economic experts the crisis that was coming upon us, and what we can't do is be three months to prioritize some assumptions. So you're late; on the same 25th of April, you should have started this priority, but it's also that they want to do it alone, because they're not talking to the rest of the parliamentary groups or talking to the social forces to prioritise these assumptions. Therefore, what we see is that there is, on one side, a fractured government; also in the management of the pandemic. Without going any further, with the Orpheus program, one day they will explain to us why 170,000 tests were to be done, and finally I understand that 22,000 have been done, and it seems that it is because of the discrepancies that have existed within the Government of the Generality; a government that goes late as it is on the subject of the prioritization of assumptions. If we set ourselves on July 21st with a priority, that means that until August it will not, at least, be able to start injecting money into those parties that are most needed. And the citizenry, President, can't wait. And besides, we also see a government that's out there, that's not talking with the rest of the political forces to prioritize these assumptions, but it's not talking with social forces either, and if not, it's just listening to what a lot of entities are saying. Another topic I wanted to talk about, because you talked about it, and it's about re-centralisation. President, I would also have liked Spain to have been recognized as the plurinational federal state that I believe it is. So, it's not what it has to be, it's that I think it is already and that, therefore, the only thing that is necessary is to recognize it: with a federative culture, with developed cooperation... I'd like it. Now, it's not like that at the moment, but from there to lie... that's to say, one thing is that the situation is not what we like and one other thing is that you say that a 155 health care provider, president, has applied. I think that in order to criticize it is not necessary to lie, it is not necessary to exaggerate. I think reality is what it is; it can please us more or less. I don't think I can get things to this point either. Because, in fact, Catalonia had and had the competence in sanitation, not only in the public; during the management also had the private. And what did we see? So we've seen externalizations, we've seen classy gratifications and, above all, what we've seen has been professionally left behind. Catalonia had and had the competence of residences, President. Even you said you hadn't reacted like a calyx. There was a moment he said there was a communication problem. Then, obviously, he landed a little more things, because there wasn't just a communication problem. What happened in the residences is that it went late and poorly, and, moreover, in the later years – the later five years, it was in the hands of the Republican Left, and the other five, it was in the hands of Convergence –..., so it did not trade this service, quite the opposite. And the third is that Catalonia also had and had the skills in education. And what did we see? So gangs that have led the five major unions to call for his resignation from Councillor Bargalló. So, I insist, you can criticize the situations and dynamics that we don't like; now, from there to lying or saying that a 155 has been applied, so I think it's not really right. The third issue – which I did comment on this morning, but I want to insist again because I think it's very important – is about the Mede funds. President, I come back to say, and, in fact, his partners would say that they have also drawn up the plan: it is not the time for a rescue; it is not the time for a rescue that will only lead us to Catalonia being more indebted and also to apply austerity policies – also said Mr Riera of the CUP. I believe that in a negotiation – we are now immersed in a negotiation for the European reconstruction foundations – we are standing on the side of Ciutadans, of Mr Garicano; we are standing on the side of the People's Party, of Pablo Casado; we are standing on the side of Austria and Holland; we are standing on the side of the Bank of Spain; it is to say, we are standing on the side of all those who precisely want an exit based on austerity and not solidarity, President, it is not a good idea. So we, from our group, ask you, please, to correct and to stop this measure. Because, moreover, there is another insistence, you say that it seems that Ciutadans joins us, in this case again tell him that Ciutadans agrees with his proposal. And I'd like to make a couple of more fears. You make a lot of reference to transparency – many times, talking a lot isn't necessarily transparent – and we, from our group, have lost count of the name of times we asked your government about the number, the cost and the companies where the sanitary material was purchased. We haven't gotten these data yet. So I'm going back to say it now, see if on this occasion we have more success. And he also wanted to close with the fact that today, the Committee on the Reconstruction of the Congress, has voted to allocate the increment, the totality of the increment that will be destined for education, in this case to public education. And I say it again: do you know who voted against it? So the Popular Party, Cities and Junts for Catalonia, because Junts for Catalonia didn't want the concerted school to stay out of these foundations. So, I don't know if this claim to say that Ciutadans is getting sick, so maybe it should be reconsidered. That said, President, I believe that – and I said it this morning – we are in a plethora that is necessary, that is essential. The citizenry is asking for solutions. Catalonia needs a reconstruction, which we always insist that it must be a transformation, because we cannot return to the same situation from which we came, from before the Covid, because it is certain that there were things that worked but there were no other things that were absolutely unsustainable. It is necessary to advance in an ecological transition; it is necessary to advance in the armoring of the industry; it is necessary to advance in putting the cures in the center and not to always fall on the gifts, and, moreover, in an invisible and poorly paid way. We have a great opportunity to reach agreements, to reach consensus, to bring forward measures for the benefit of the country. Because, besides, the problems we have now are not only from this crisis, but we have been flushing them for years. I think we also have to give everything we deserve – because one thing is the words of thanks, but then the policies go for another side, too – our pages, our workers and workers of essential services, of clean services, the health personnel, but also science, innovation and technology must have the place that they deserve in this Catalonia of the 21st century. Therefore, we take advantage of all the talent and all the work force we have in Catalonia; we work to rebuild it, as I say, from the transformation and offering an alternative to a model that clearly felt unfair until now, and we advance in social justice, ecology, economic prosperity, always – always – sustainable with life, and above all, and also with dialogue. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.56.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.57.0	Well, thank you, President. I will focus on prioritizing the response to the debate with the President, and the Vice-President, if there were, and, if there is time left, I will try to answer or point out some ideas that respect the interventions of the other Councillors and Councillors. Look, President, you have put a lot of emphasis on the need for resources, but for you the solution goes to ask for them, to ask the State – bad negotiations – or to get in debt with the European Union. Miri, I'll explain to you some receipts to get resources; maybe the government won't like them; maybe political groups that support the government won't like them; maybe the elites and oligarchs in Catalonia, the state and the world don't like them either, but I assure you that they guarantee resources. Miri, apply taxes to big capital; apply taxes to the financial economy, to the bank and to the big fortunes. Listen to me, now they're richer than ever. Thanks to the Covid crisis, thanks to the pandemic, the great fortunes, the great capital is richer than ever, and the people are poorer than ever. Therefore, it is absolutely legitimate, politically and morally, to carry out this illegitimate benefit that they are achieving with the poor and with the management of the crisis. Listen to me, nationalizing strategic resources and essential activities is possible, even with the current competitions. Cal, effectively, restructure the premise focusing it on essential public services: health, education, housing, etcetera. Another measure. Do not pay the debt, that debt that the Spanish Constitution, with an absolutely undemocratic reform, obliges to pay over public policies. Not the pay—not the pay. They don't listen to the troika, they dig up the troika, they don't just the Spanish state, they dig up the troika. Disobeyin. Do not apply the rules of the deficit of expenditure, the presuppositionary rules, which is the basis of the ''austericides, the basis of the ''astericides invented for the troika, imposed for the financial powers. Developing the social and solidary economy, the green economy, the economy of autonomies, small and medium-sized enterprises, and above all generate public economy, public occupation. Obviously, to do so, we must internalize public services. And all this accompanied by the creation of a public bank. With all these measures, I assure you, President, that you may have few friends in the world to finance, to the elites, to the oligarchies, but I assure you, President, that you will have a lot of resources and a lot of people in this country who will benefit from the redistribution of wealth, of equality and of the public services that this will generate. And, I insist, other groups have also said, Mr Luis de Guindos today – European Central Bank – has just said, if anyone had doubts, that European aid, European rescue will entail reforms and austerity. And we're still flattening out? Is it true that you still believe that the European Union is a good friend? It's the mafia – it's the mafia – and it leaves money and, if you don't pay, it breaks the glass. Or the cams. Therefore, if we want to continue walking on our own paths, we generate resources from the same sobriety. And you also told me precisely about sovereignty, how to achieve independence. Miri, the dialog – the dialog –, we already tell it, it's not a bad idea; it's not a bad formula, the dialog. Obviously, these conflicts historically in the end are resolved by dialogue, and peace, obviously, cannot be in any other way. Today's dialog table – today's dialog table – is, however, based only on the recognition of conflict, bilaterality in the dialog and little more. It's like point 0 or point minus 1 of a conflict resolution process. In order to advance to the next phase of conflict resolution, such that there is conflict, such that there is confrontation, again, from the street and from the institutions. Otherwise, I assure you, President, and also to all of you, the Spanish State will never in life agree on a reference to self-determination, with a majority of parliament, with a majority of government. More. There's no such thing as a scener. Therefore, the only way to advance towards a truly resolved scene of the conflict is to exercise the sovereignty of this Parliament and of the institutions of the Generality, to a democratic break with the State, to exercise sovereignty, to act with absolute sovereignty defiing the powers of the State; to develop specific policies of sovereignty, specific policies for the service of the majority of this country, defiing the Constitutional Court and the powers of the State; creating an alternative democratic institution, its own national sovereignty. Civil disobedience, mobilization, reactivation of the conflict. That's the path. And, from this conflict, from this rupture is that the State and the international community can be brought to bear in order to give a final sign to the resolution of the conflict of natural plebiscite or referendum. That's the full route. I assure you, it's not easy, it's difficult, it's coastal, it involves taking on repression, but it also involves recognizing the enormous potential that the U of October and the Three of October taught us that our country has, and that when there is this combination of civil and institutional disobedience and mobilization, the process actually takes place. Honestly don't look for the solution for more; it's not there, it's wasting time. Finally, President, what surprised me is that you accused me of describing a catastrophic scene. Honestly, everything I said to him, whose previous normality was, and how did he get hurt, they're done, huh? It's not appreciation or observation. Perhaps you have the opportunity, the opportunity to visit other places in the country where this suffering or suffering does not exist. But I assure you that this country is suffering, that the society of this country is suffering, that it is broken by inequality, and that this, with the crisis that it sees, with this enormous crisis, will still get worse. I have not been catastrophic; the data on the state, the poor, the housing deficit, the destruction of the territory, the lack of self-government, the precariousness of work are real. We have Nissan's theme here. Don't tell me, please, that it's a catastrophic reality, because I'll worry a lot, because in order to solve the problems I need to have a clear awareness of its natural, its magnitude. And, look, we've made a lot of proposals; they haven't answered us at all. We made them here today at this session, and they didn't answer us at all. We have made concrete proposals, very concrete proposals. And on these proposals, and on this will of sovereignty and self-determination, and on this will to obtain resources to develop policies that are at the service of the majority of this country..., it is for which we have proposed that we should build an independence unit, a shared strategy of independence that allows independence to lead a great national agreement, great national agreements, throughout the country; that independence can lead a great transformation, involving the conjunction of sovereignism, bridling and replacing the combination of progressive forces of this country, social and political, in order to face the crisis, to achieve self-determination and sovereignty and to build a feminist, ecological, just and solid society. That's the answer you asked for, and here's the tea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.58.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, they correspond to keep the word to the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.59.0	Thank you, President. President, councillor, deputies and deputies, I will also do as Mr Iceta, which is what I will answer to the president; I can't answer, much less, to all councillors, can I? And it also coincides with Mr. Iceta's relationship to attachment. I, more than at the same time, had the feeling that we were witnessing a caste plane whose advisor was postulated as President Torra's substitute, didn't I? I've had more of this feeling. The first question that I wanted to touch is from the fiscal point of view, because in the first intervention I did not touch the question and I think that there are a couple of elements of fiscal policy that, in relation to the crisis that we are debating, man, have an important influence. And the assumptions are approved on April 24th here in Parliament, in the midst of a pandemic. Certainly, you had previously introduced them to the pandemic. But they won't deny that at least there are two sets of taxes that at least they're controversial, and they're very controversial. The first one. Home, in a situation where more than 12,500 people have died, pushing the estate tax, it has no name. It's just... we know they haven't done it expressly, we know they haven't done it expressly, but this, listen to me, it's not a waste to push these features at a time like this. Because, in the end, the ones that end up being like what we're looking for, thanking the last cent of the taxpayer, even when he dies, it's the government, but we're all folds– we're all folds. And, listen to me, this is insane. We gave them the opportunity to rectify in the past Ple. They didn't want to rectify it. There you go. But the second question, the tourist tax. You've been pushing the tourist tax. I know you've made a decree to postpone the increase in tourist tax in the year you see. It's not enough. It's just not enough. And we're not talking about a lot of resources, in this case. But that's not enough. It's just that you think that hotels and residential establishments... if they've been locked down for three months, and the job they're having to pull out. And all the government's effort is to say, "Well, we'll charge them from October, what they'll pay first of a year, how little they'll pay, because they've been locked up, and then, from the year you see, we'll apply the increment to them. Listen, it doesn't seem like enough. And I also take the opportunity to announce them: the week you see, in the plenary of the week you see, they will also have the opportunity to rectify this issue. Then, in relation to his intervention, right? You said to us, you said to me, and you said, "Look, what seems inconceivable to me is what happens to Spain, that there is no respect for a democratic decision of Parliament that was approved on 6 and 7 September. So, miri, obviously, we think very differently. For us what is inconceivable is that you consider it democratic what happened to the Parliament of Catalonia on the 6th and 7th of September 2017. Absolutely inconceivable. If you believe that it is democratic that more than half of the members of Parliament should go out in protest for the independence of the majority in Parliament and for the lack of respect for the rights of the Members that was demonstrated that day, listen to me, if this is democratic, then we cannot share it. And we will continue to fight it. And so I look at it, so it has different feelings, I think it's four feelings of the Constitutional Court in power, in which it is said that opposition deputies have seen their rights violated. It also has two feelings about the content of the laws that were approved. I, in case he does not like the Constitutional Court, can go to the European Court of Human Rights, which also has an inadmissibility of an application that were precisely presented by the independent deputies in which he qualifies the one that passed in this Parliament on 6 and 7 September 2017. Then you would ask me if we disagreed with the proposals made by your government. It's just that it's hard for no one – fixed 'just what I'm saying, huh? – it is difficult for anyone to disagree with the proposals made by their government. None. Because, as they said one thing and the counter, they will always find someone who satisfies what this government has said. If the problem was this; if that's what I wanted to pass on. You speak of total confinement during the day, a few hours after Mr. Pedro Sánchez announced the state of alarm. A few hours later. Not the day before, that's when you're tanking schools, colleges, and universities, and they say you don't think that kids are confined, that you're going to the park. There you were, at the press wheel, with Councillor Hi and Councillor Buch. They said, "No, don't let them be confined. It was the day before. It's more, until the day after you don't ask for full confinement, you don't publish the order of tank bars, restaurants and discos. And until fifteen days later they don't order the government's public works to cease in their work. Therefore, the problem is this, that they are able to say one thing and the counter. And there he went to remember: on March 10th, at the Palau de la Generalitat – on March 10th, at the Palau de la Generalitat – that we were several of the people here who were there that day with you, who asked them for decisions and more drastic measures we were two people: Mr. Batet and myself. We wanted to be the roundest, asking the government to make decisions that were drastic. The round ones. And they didn't – and they didn't. Now, three days later, total confinement. Whether it's a concern for all Catalans or not – whether it's a concern for all Catalans or not. Well, I'm sure you don't. To you, the offense I'm saying that you didn't worry about all the Catalans. Fem one thing: I looked at the conjunction of his mandate, I didn't just look at the last period of crisis management, I looked at the conjunction of his mandate. I'm convinced you don't. For a lot of things. He could make a long list. It's the same. Proof of fire. You're asking for a dialog table with the Government of Spain for the next month of July. Go ahead, vaginate to the dial table. Do me a favor. Put it on the table... That's to say, first, it's not meeting with independent entities to see what they said in this table of dialog; it's not meeting with independent groups to see what they said in this table of dialog, and bring in all the financing problems that you've come here today to tell us they're tending. Bring them to the dialog table, and there is no self-determination. If you do this, I will correct and say to you: "That is true; you are concerned for all Catalans. But if you continue to go to the dialog table talking only to the independenceists and to defend only the independence project, I will continue to tell you..., not me, we are many Catalans who will continue to tell you that you have not cared for more than half the Catalans. I'm done. In a generous sense... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , with the generosity it takes two seconds to finish my intervention. Today I feel generous; as well as the tiredness of the session, I feel generous, President, and I will end it with congratulations; congratulations: your government will have lasted a little longer than chicken Mike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.60.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.61.0	Well, thank you very much, President. President, Councillor, Members and Members, I want to begin this second reply above all by thanking all the information that has been able to convey to us, precisely this late, not just the President, who has already done so in the morning, but the rest of the Councillors and Councillors. I think he has shown just what he has been going through these last few days: that the government has been managing this crisis with the best of dedications, he has been giving everything, seven days a week, twenty-four hours, in order to help, therefore, the citizenship of our country. Not only do they appreciate the information that they have been able to convey to us today, but they also actually appreciate this work day by day. We know it's been a rough time. Before we recognized that there were times of complexity management for all administrations, and just what we did was contrast the various ways. But we are empathizing with the difficulty and the complexity of managing a situation like this, a very harsh situation, which we have unfortunately not just overcome. That is why we say, therefore, that we need to follow, that we need to follow and that we need to continue to strengthen the public; that we need to continue to strengthen public investment, social investment, and above all that is to bring and gamble for nine receipts. We are not worth those receipts from the other previous crises, either with civil rights or with social rights. Now it's time to do the opposite. Therefore, neither detail nor refocusing. We're absolutely convinced that it's going this way. That's why we won't get tired of claiming all the tools and all the resources. And when we are all, we mean all, also those we have today, even though they are insufficient, such as the assumption of the Government of Catalonia. Because there has been much talk here, of this assumption by the Government of Catalonia, some did not stop complaining, but they did all they could because they agreed to bring it to the Council of State Guarantees, and others at minute 1 have already called for this reprioritization, which is obvious that we have had to see all the affect that this crisis has had, not only economic and social health care, and so now we are on condition that the Government will now be in a position to make this expansion, this reprioritization and above all to be able to give the answers that the people of our country need. We have presented the republican agenda for reconstruction, which was fully linked to the agenda for the Catalan Republic. We believe that it is the opportunity to build the foundations that must also serve us to raise these master pairs of the Catalan Republic, because we know that there is no alternative to being able to guarantee rights, to be able to guarantee freedom, to be able to guarantee social justice and equal opportunities for everyone, for everyone in our country. A republican agenda with these seven axes: recovery of the productive economy, strengthening the welfare state, reconciling work with life, reconnecting the territory, betting for renewables and zero residues, reactivating culture, and, therefore, building, as before, the Catalan Republic. Just one of the proposals we will be presenting – and there will be time to present it, so the same diverges, but it is already advancing as one of the proposals we will be presenting as a parliamentary group – goes in this line of hearing that it is the moment of reconstruction also in republican clau, and identifies the current moment as a foundational moment, as a disruptive moment, as a moment of those new opportunities. Because, as I've said before and many times, I like to remember, up to and including the most complex moments, full of setbacks and uncertainties, up to and including all these moments, bring together new opportunities. And, therefore, it is a matter of us being able to take advantage of them; in fact, we must be able to take advantage of them. We will also present, among others, some proposals linked to the need to be a state, to this need to be able to dispose of all the tools and resources, therefore, to the need to be an independent country. Before it became clear, but we repeat, we can only get out of the Spanish State; the State has seen itself ineffective and not useful for the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, in some of these proposals, what we are denouncing is precisely this recent and authoritative drift and the prioritization of the militarized management of the public order by the State. And, indeed, yes, there has been re-centralisation and re-centralisation of the purchase of material, even though here there are Members who want to deny it. We also demonstrate, therefore, that independence is the only alternative for Catalonia, in order to be able to make this country just, this country free and clear that citizenship needs, and we therefore defend the exercise of the right to self-determination in order to make this Catalan republic possible. Because it's about everyone and everything that we can decide. That is why we are talking about the right to self-determination; that is why we are betting on a reference, and that is why we want to put the future of this country at the hands of the citizens of this country, of all the citizens. And that's not denying anyone's rights; it's just defending the rights of those people who may not want independence. But we have to be able to decide between all of us. That is why we defend ourselves: a proposal that is not against anyone, as some people are always interested in saying, but in favour of everyone, the ability to decide and the guarantee of rights, and also the right to decide our future in this case. It is precisely in this proposal that we, therefore, commit ourselves to a great agreement of a country so that the main consensuss that run through Catalan society and that linked to the political conflict are that we can justly exercise the right to decide, the right to self-determination, and be able to make an amnesty that ends with this situation of unjust repression. Precisely, one of the other motions for resolutions is in the line of denouncing or addressing the rights and freedoms, the defence, in this case, of the rights and freedoms, and it is that it rains on the mullate, because if they already feel violated or restricted some of the most fundamental rights and the political freedoms also, therefore, of the citizenry, the connection to the general cause against independence, now what we see is that with this management of the pandemic, with some of the decisions that have come up related to the state of alarm in the case of the Spanish State, but not only in the case of the Spanish State, but at the global level, we come as if we are also restricted or threatened by these political freedoms. And, therefore, we also want to talk about it, about this and this subject. That said, as we say, in order to advance towards the Catalan Republic – and before I have had time to mention it, I want to, in some way, make it even more emphatic – taking into account that we know that there is no alternative, we need to pinya among all those people, among those political and parliamentary groups that we share this objective, that we share this horizon. That is why we appeal to the great consensus of the 70's, 80's and 80's that they also defend amnesty and self-determination. For this reason, let us say that with whom we share the object, the time, that we have a shared strategy that is able to combine the plurality and diversity of society; a shared strategy or a strategic unity between the independence movement that allows us to expand our complicity, that starts from the will of agreement and cooperation between us and not from the competition, as we have often had to live lately, and that we want to move forward and not only to resist – it is also the time to move forward –; that we look at the future and that we leave, therefore, to look at ourselves as a reality, and that we make strong against all the things that we have come from a state that, even in a crisis like the present, has gone away from its essence. A shared strategy that must enable us to make this Catalonia a free, fair, diverse, clean, net and feminist state. And I repeat, because I think it was company Riera, Congressman Riera, of the CUP, that in his speech I think they're playing an equivocal, that they're comparing or somehow, right? , pose in contradiction what is the dialog with the confrontation, when they must probably be able to be compatible. In fact, it is not us who will give up the lives that allow us to reach strategic consensus or walk and move to this Catalan republic. Dialog? Yeah, always; don't ever get up. Negotiation? So much. We think we have to bet, even though we're still skeptical about what we can get at the negotiating table. And at the same time, a lot of other things; we can't just trust a trading table. Actually, they might be stronger. Indeed, it is necessary to build up strength. Indeed, it would strengthen all the other levels, and before we repeated it and we remembered it: the institutional area, as our institutions are stronger, better than better; the area of citizen mobilization, the street; the international area, and the area of strengthening in strategic sectors such as business or social, other sectoral areas. Therefore, yes, everything, and at once we will never give up anything, never give up any space that can allow us to learn about this objective of the Catalan Republic. Before he finished, he also wanted to refer to the interventions of some of the groups, especially to what the representatives, the spokesman and the president of the Ciutadans Group said, because I think that another time they did not understand, because this did not rebuild or of the republic, and therefore a dilemma; it did rebuild and of the republic, because it is the same way, and they can laugh but it is the same way, it is a guarantee of rights, it is a result of better services and better resources for citizens. There will not be complete reconstruction if we do not have all the tools and all the resources. If not, we will always have shortcomings so that we can do many of the things that you propose and that, finally, we could come to a consensus in this parliamentary chamber. Until we have all the tools of a state, there will not be a complete reconstruction, until we have the resolution of the conflict, there will not be a complete reconstruction either. That is why it is so important to be able to have all the tools and all the resources. But it's that, besides, and now I'm talking about the intervention they've done all morning, they've come to do what they always do, maybe the first few minutes have come with a lot more good words, but then the usual speech from Ciutadans began, and so on, with the old populism that we think is very irresponsible. It's been a while since we've had any leads or lefts, but they're running with Vox in a few places. Then they bet on liberal feminism, which is a big contradiction. And now they arrive with reconstruction has no ideology, which is the mantra they told us today. The reconstruction has no ideology. So we think it is. And so long as it's in tea. It's not trivial how we rebuild. That's why it's so important. It is not neutral which policies apply. We therefore bet on the proposals and the progressive measures, and on the measures of social justice, and on the measures of the left and the transformers, and not on the failure of that rule of 78, which has now been running out to falsify. In fact, they have always been used for this rule, for IBEX 35 and for this 78 rule. Do you know what's going on? So we think you don't have plans. That's why they only know how to go against it and criticize the project that we do have the independence movement, that we do have some Republican Left and the rest of the groups we share with, so this time. And precisely to rebuild and to hold plans, which is just to do politics, and to do politics also involves making sure to negotiate, and to leave many times this hatred that the mass has often diphoned. And despite everything, despite this hatred, or that may be lacking, that may be disrespectful sometimes, or that may use this vocabulary as little respect as the shame table, so don't worry, that the negotiating and dialog table will be there, there will be, because it is worth talking, because we have to bet to find a democratic solution to the political conflict. So, despite you, there's no need to worry about it. The same..., or somehow he also wanted to make a reference to what Congressman Rodriguez, from the People's Party, said, also in reference to everything he said in the morning, said that he sometimes believed that we didn't really want independence, that we could go living from the story, that he would say. So don't worry, help us achieve independence, be able to make a reference, exercise the right to self-determination, and see if we want to take on the responsibilities. Because we actually want to take them. And we want to stop complaining about this state denying us our rights and cutting us loose and centralizing us. So much. We want to assume all the skills and be absolutely responsible for everything in order to be able, also if appropriate, to make mistakes. It does not always have to depend on the Spanish State and its decisions. And I'm still convinced that if we get it, when we get independence, you... that when we get independence, you'll even agree and see that it's the best that could have happened to us. I'm done. It was before anything else, wasn't it? In times of greatest uncertainty, there are always opportunities. Now I think we have an opportunity. The reconstruction agenda is the agenda of the Catalan Republic. They think they're necessarily indestriable. We have always conceived this way, because independence must serve us to help people; it is a means, it is an instrument that must allow us to help people and continue to serve the country in the best way possible. It is not a question of illusionisms, but of generating illusion, even though the moment is very complex, of generating hope for our citizens, even though the moments are actually very complicated now. And I'm riding this real change. We can believe and we have to believe in ourselves to get it, and to know that we can do everything. In fact, I can only see the solidarity that has existed in this country these last months and these last weeks. And, therefore, keep thinking about everyone and leave no one behind. Today's reconstruction will determine the country of the future and tomorrow. And we, from the Republican Left, from the Republican Group, have intact our transformative compromise, our left-wing compromise, our independenceist compromise, and we have clear which future we want. That's exactly why we're here. And we want to make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.62.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.63.0	Thank you very much, Mr President of Parliament. President of the Generality, Councillor, Members and Members, we carry practically two or more hours of plenary session; we have been able to debate extensively at this session, and I promise you I will try not to exhaust all the time, huh? But I do think it would be good to put some of the things that have been put in store, and I think that it is close to us, therefore, in this intervention that I can show them. The first one. I would like to congratulate President Torra, Councilwoman Budó, who has held all the debate here, and also the government's conjunction. I believe that the Government has given an image of the management that the Government has done during all these months of solvency, with a very complicated situation, giving face, giving answers, recognizing aspects to improve, but also aspects and potentialities of our country. And this has given a security and confidence in the city that I believe today in this debate has translated. And I think that the country's conjunction has seen how in very adverse situations the Government of Catalonia has been able to give answers to save people's lives and work for the Catalan and Catalan communities, for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans. In my intervention I started saying that the coronavirus crisis changed everything. It has generated evidence, therefore, of a social, economic, sociological change in relation to the very powerful health system. But well, for what I see there are things that never change; there are things that continue. Especially in the Spanish State, there are things going on, aren't there? One could be the impunity of the king and the monarchy, which continues and, for what we see, therefore, will continue, protected by the People's Party, by the Socialist Party, by Ciutadans, etc. The other is the repression of the State. And during the coronavirus and the pandemic crisis and confinement we could see it and we could visualize it. Because political prisoners haven't had a fair deal. And this was also seen during this time of confinement. And today, too, here in this House, and what we're talking about, the management of the pandemic, we can also say that the Spanish State has continued repression, continues to unfairly treat the political prisoners of Catalonia. I, well, there are things that never change. One is Ciutadans. Mr. Carrizosa, I think he's seen that the Ple didn't do them well, and he's gone out now to respond to the rescue, huh? , to see if we can fix things, things that never change, because they are installed in the normal old: of Matrix, of the matraca, of the embassies, of the I don't know what. This never changes. They almost died... more than twelve thousand people in Catalonia, but this speech never changes. And he tried to come here, so he tried to fix it and get his ass out of this situation. But, well, listen, I invite you to review the debate we had here today, Mr. Carrizosa, Mrs. Roldán. Because the only people who have talked about the process and the independence and the situation, and who have based their entire speech around it, have been you. They were able to listen perfectly to the speech of President Torra, of the government and of everyone, who made no reference to the right of self-determination or to the reference. No, no, no. And you, as you don't want them to be interested in the management that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has done, because, perhaps in your father's office, you did quite well, so come on, let's get out of here..., let's take advantage of the occasion to talk about another topic. And we see that it doesn't change. When in this crisis what has been shown is that President Torra has managed for all Catalans and for all Catalans. And they had an hour in the morning. Between you and Mrs. Roldán, you've had an hour to talk. I, listen, how many proposals have you made? They haven't figured it out. Tell me 'n' one. It's just that they didn't make it. Critics, all – critics, all –, for an hour, and all the criticisms, and Matrix and the tab and I don't know what, but proposals, proposals of the coronavirus, resolutions– listen, I've been very careful – I didn't feel it, huh? , of concrete; of concrete measure I have not felt any, have I not? And then they come here and they have medals of influence: "It is now that we are influential in Madrid, we are the preferred partners, we are negotiating with the Socialist Party, with Podemos; we are..., eh? They come here to pose for medals. Well, listen to me, all right. Congratulations. Listen to me, no, no problem. But let's see if one day you, so much as assume that you are the first party in Catalonia, that you get so many votes and so on, defend some proposal in Madrid that is positive for Catalonia. Miri, I'll give you three. The first, the deficiency, that the flexibility of the deficit is the zero_per_cent for the autonomous communities, and thus in Catalonia they can allocate more resources to social policies, to sanitation, to social welfare, etc. That's the way it is. One. Another, that the gatherings can allocate their romance novels to people's policies. You, who are so influential now in Madrid, could have asked for this, and you haven't asked, and it hasn't, and it hasn't been approved, and the government isn't doing it. No, no, no. The reality is the BOE – the reality is the BOE. And that didn't happen. The other one. Listen, I'm allowing a little flexibility from the government of Catalonia's debt, so we can give more answers and more resources. I mean, you're very influential in Madrid, but you don't bring anything to Catalonia. And that's the reality of his day to day, isn't it? This has never changed. That doesn't change. What does not change is the attitude of the PSC and the PSOE. And with all the warmth and good doing and the dialectic wheezing of Mr.Iceta, which is about film, because, clearly, he says: "No, it's clear that you come here and say that you take advantage of the coronavirus to talk about independence and to achieve independence from Catalonia. Clearly, Mr. Iceta said, it's Mr. Pedro Sánchez's party, which takes advantage of the coronavirus to say better together, which is the speech he made at the first moment and spent thousands of millions in advertising campaign with better unity. That is to say, I believe that President Torra and the Government of Catalonia have not proselytized independence during the management of the coronavirus and have devoted themselves to the management. What they have not done is spend thousands of millions in advertising on communication media to say better together. This, in any case, has been done by his president and his party. So, in time to look at the others, man, first look at his house, and look at how they act, and look at what they do, right? Because, of course, the reception of the PSC and the PSOE in the key moments of country crisis, of state, of « everything is complicated, etcetera, we already know it: passes 23-F, pam, the LOAPA; the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, pam, the brush; the U d'Octubre, portres and 155, and now, the coronavirus, 155 sanitary and to re-centralize all the competitions, and that the Generalitat de Catalunya can manage and act as a branch, « but we will decide in Madrid, and you manage what we let them do. So no. We want sovereignty and we are a nation. And this is the claim made by President Torra during all this time of the management of the coronavirus: that this could be managed in a better way if you had a decentralized management, as has been shown to the countries that are really federal. And well, and listen'm, differences in the management of the PSC and the PSOE respect what the People's Party could have managed, cap. As much riding, as much riding, Isabel and Fernando. Look, there are other things that don't change, too. So, man, it's one that in politics is to be consistent, ladies and gentlemen of the commons, in politics is to be coherent, because it can't repeat the bells and go to trial, it can't be government and opposition at the same time. Clearly, there can be no government and opposition at this time. Because, of course, you say: "No, it's a lot of things to do... It's clear that you're ruling in Madrid, you're decided because there's a government; there's vice presidents and ministers, and of course..., and you've approved a lot of laws, and you've approved a lot of regulations during this time, you've taken advantage of BOE... They've never ruled but they've got it after a while, to use the BOE. But it's a shame that they didn't apply it to repeal the LRSAL, to repeal the law, to remove the decree... the digital decree. No, that's why they didn't remember. Now, to refocus the competitions of Catalonia, yes, that's right; the champions, the advanced students of the Socialist Party. This has been followed by obedient schoolgirls, and it is necessary to recognize, therefore, that they have earned and raced to advance to the Spanish State, in the sense that the best feeling is "recently the competitions of Catalonia, and so on. Miri, because it must be coherent, because they come here and ask for elections... "No, there must be elections in Catalonia. Listen to me, a party that approves assumptions has to be consistent and say, "Look, now that the government manages these assumptions, they don't always approve assumptions" call for elections. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] With the least..., with the least... I haven't interrupted it, ma'am... Tranquil·litzi's, ma'am Albiach. Listen to me, you, assumptions, and, man, like at least a time to manage assumptions, a little bit of coherence. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's the first game in the world I know that approves assumptions and calls for elections. Home, if you want elections, don't approve the assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.64.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.65.0	That's, like, a basic criterion, isn't it? And then they say, "Oh, you, the assumptions you have, how and what... And, listen to me, the generality's assumptions already recognize that we're a little bit of a thing and that they're unfortunate, we already recognize it. But it is that you, Lords of Podemos, rule in Madrid under the presuppositions of Mr. Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party. And we could have approved some assumptions in time of the pandemic, because the Government of the Government of Catalonia has done so. See if it's simple, that. And you, of course, only remember Santa Barbara when she was on the throne. Look at yourself at home, and you are ruling in Madrid with the assumptions of the People's Party. A mike of wisdom and coherence. And then they don't deny so much Ciutadans – they don't deny so much Ciutadans – because, clearly, among other things, apart from approving them..., and being their preferred partner, now, in Madrid, and that they approve things, and also the assumptions, and apart from approving..., listen'm, that they gave the mayor of Barcelona, the lords of Ciutadans, yes, and the socialist lords also; Citizens and Socialists gave the mayor of Barcelona, when he had won an independent party. Therefore, they do not deny so much Ciutadans, that at the time of truth their votes also need them and count them in order to be able to pull forward, to be able to pull forward their day by day. And finally, the leader of the People's Party, Rodriguez, who was trying to counterbalance the management, didn't he? , finance, finance versus independence. Listen to me, the financing and management of autonomy and independence are two cares of the same coin. We, humbly, think that, with more sovereignty, with more self-government, with more resources, with tools of state, the Government of Catalonia would manage better than the Government of the Spanish State is doing. You may or may not have this opinion, but at least we have it, and that's why we are independent, and that's why we want the full sovereignty of Catalonia, and we want more self-government and more finance for Catalonia. And in any case, management and independence are two... governance and responsibility and wanting independence are two caresses of the same coin. And I finish with a few words from President Torra. President, I don't know about these days, huh? , the one we have experienced, as President of the Government of Catalonia. Actually, now, when he joined the presidency two years ago, we couldn't think about it, that this could happen. But they cover more than ever his words that he said to the investiture speech, let's say, with which he ended, and now they've taken more than ever, that it's for Catalonia and for life. And in this crisis of the coronavirus we have seen how, from politics, from his responsibility as president, with the joint government, the assembly of deputies and deputies, assemblies and institutions, and together with civil society, they have been able to work a lot for life. And this, to be sure, is a tape that I'm convinced connects most of this plenary. Thank you very much, President, for your example. And since it can't be any other way, it has all of our escalph and all of our support. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-07-01-5601.66.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and I am sure that, in accordance with the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokesmen, the next stage of the debate will be the following: the deadline for submitting the motions for resolutions is until two-quarters of the morning; the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups and sub-groups of the proposals admitted to the Bureau will be fifteen minutes later; the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be until five o'clock in the morning; and finally, the presentation and voting of the motions for resolutions will be held from the morning. They suspect the session until you sell them to the god. Thank you.
