ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.1.0	Let's start the session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Before we begin the order of the day, I inform you that, in compliment of that established by the Movement 111/XII, of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2020, there are 562 mortal victims and missing persons in the Mediterranean. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government]] [[255-00017/12]] The only item on the agenda of this plenary session is the debate on the general political direction of the Government. And this debate will be governed by Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the sequence adopted for the Board of Spokespersons. In the first place, has the word the President of the Generalitat, Mr Quim Torra. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.2.0	All right. Very good morning to everyone. As you know, this is the third general policy orientation debate in which I take part; some debates that, unfortunately, from the first, have been completely different from what I would expect – that is to say, a balance of the political year and proposals for a new course that we are starting; unfortunately, I say – and, in change, the judicial and political interference of the Spanish State in the form of repression do not allow our country or our Parliament a full, normal and coherent functioning with the democratic will of the citizenry. So far, two things have characterized this legislature. First, the firm will to build a country of freedom, culture and talent. Second, the relentless repression and interference of the State's stages in Catalonia's political life. To these two elements, continue to the length of the legislature, if it has added in the last few months a completely unexpected element and that has changed all the parameters of our life, and will do so in the next years, with all certainty, the Covid-19. My intervention will, therefore, revolve around these three elements: the country we want and are building, the impact of the Covid-19 and how we are addressing it, and, finally, a brief political point. The administration of this legislature is not understood, without the Covid-19, and neither can it be disconnected from the will to be a free country and from the repression like the sea of foundations, both under the government of Mariano Rajoy, as of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias. And why do we say that the legislature, and especially the balance of this past year, doesn't understand, without the Covid-19? So it's obvious: it's all changed; the social dynamics, the business, the institutional..., have been completely altered. Until the beginning of the year, the main conjuncture indicators followed the good trend of the past few years, but the pandemic got it all figured out. After six years of growth, six years, I insist, we closed 2019 with a 1,3_per_cent growth, like the rest of the eurozone. The pandemic, in change, has opened up a period of uncertainty. As you know, the second quarter of the year the Catalan economy fell a 21,3_per_cent; a small drop pronounced than that of Spain – 22,1 – but, all the same, very much below the eurozone. The strategy of the next few months will be key so as to strengthen the recovery of the economy until its potential growth rate. Until the end of the year this can assume the approximate fall of 10_per_cent of GDP. Unlike previous crises, this has much more conjunctural features, and it is estimated that the recovery, the year 2021, can be rapid and of a intensity similar to the fall experienced in 2020. That this recovery is actually fast and that it is consistent will depend, to a good extent, I would say that for the most part, to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the European foundations. For what it does to the labor market, the rate of atur reached its lowest in the fourth quarter of 2019, with a 10.45_per_cent, the lowest xifra since the end of 2008. They must remember, the deputies and deputies, as I used to come to Parliament and those small tithes in which we all went down to the ground were always a date that could manifest to reinforce, therefore, the importance of what citizenship in its conjunction – the entrepreneurs, the workers, the autonomes... – were succeeding. We had come to return to the figures of the year 2008 in terms of atur. This country had made a huge effort. And I want to thank him and put him on the manifesto. Also the occupation, at a rate of 55.14_per_cent, is associating its maximum from the previous crisis. From then on, the pandemic broke it all, and it increased the rate to 12.78_per_cent, if also under the state xifra of 15.33_per_cent. Other indicators, such as a very recent one, that of the tourist season, show the magnitude of the impact of the Covid and the uncertainty of the dam. If 2019 closed with a new record of arrival of foreign tourists and expenses, the figures of the first set_months are found to be a minus 77_per_cent, under the levels of the previous year. Another interesting data to see the daltaix that assumed the effects of the pandemic. During 2019, Catalonia reduced the percentage of its population at risk of poverty to 23,6_per_cent, compared to 24,7_per_cent of 2018, and the population at risk of severe material deprivation, from 6,5 to 5,7_per_cent. Now, however, we see a worsening of the living conditions of the most vulnerable population. And we will have to pay special attention to one of the most exposed sectors: our infants and our young. We can't afford a country with poor children, without the means. For years, business strategies have put into value the acronym "Angles VUCA" to refer to the environment in which we are immersed: volatile, uncertain, complex, ambiguous. Now we can say, for our own experience, that the Covid has installed uncertainty in our lives. We can't say, I don't think anyone likes to say, with total accuracy, when we return to our 2020 generation life. He showed us the fragility, the exposure to the unexpected risk, the vulnerability of all folds. And despite this, despite these circumstances that have taken everything away from us, despite this enormous daltdown, we governments must anticipate us, we must act and equip our city with certainties. And that's what the government of the government has done since the first day of the epidemic; we've left our hair, working every day, from March to today. Now, to do so, to be able to actually be effective against this epidemic, the more tools we have in our abyss, the better; the more responsible we are for our actions, the better; the more resources we have, the better; the more agile and resilient we can become, the better. And I have no doubt that, with all the resources and with all the sovereignty, we would have all the guarantees to do better. In the face of uncertainty, a country prepared for future challenges, a country recovered and a country of equity; in the face of complexity, a living country, a global country and a just country. This is our reception. This has been the reception of these two years long terms of office, which we have deployed until today. I will not tire of repeating this: we want a country of freedom of thought, freedom of expression, self-responsibility, compromise of the collective, of civic decency; a country will know that it decides its future and that it works to guarantee it to its citizens. We have not had a magnificent example with the Law regulating the prices of the loguers, which this Parliament approved a few days ago. Therefore, I enter the first block of today's presentation: government action balance. [[Pause.]] We have great potential with the country. We have put many of the initiatives to which we have committed ourselves, more of the new ones that have been appearing during these years. Some, of great abst, like the National Covenant on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Moreover, much more concrete, such as the new Smart UCI of the Valley of Hebron. That's what I'm going to try, during these minutes, to explain them, about government action. At the same time, since the beginning of the legislature, the Government has approved sixty-seven standards with law rank, thirteen bills of law and fifty-four decrees of law; the previous legislature has approved thirty-seven standards with law rank. The Government has also approved twenty-nine preliminary memoranda, such as the initial point for the development of advance bills. We have approved, the April of Enguany, not even a few years ago, assumptions for the year 2020; assumptions that seem impossible to approve; assumptions that are the first stone for reconstruction and that increase in the non-final expenditure of the departments by about 3,000_million euros respect the last approved assumptions, more than 4,000_million euros if we take into account the joint public sector; assumptions that for the first time incorporate the UNICEF methodology to calculate the expenditure destined for childhood; figures that in July we expanded in 1,230_million euros, a necessary enlargement, which has been intended basically to strengthen the fields of health, residential, social protection and digital transformation of the education system of Catalonia. It couldn't be any other way; we were in the middle of an epidemic. An enlargement, therefore, would require but not enough, because we need more resources; ours, simply ours, the resources of the Catalans, the ones that we generate the Catalans, and that disappear absorbed by the black hole of Madrid. And in everything we've done, we've put in the dialog, the active listening, the participation, the debate, extending the hand; an element that we've strengthened and that I personally asked the government's advisors and advisors: to listen to the economic and social sectors, to activate an administration that listens to citizenship, entities and businesses, and to respond to their concerns. We listened and gave our hands. We have agreed with economic and social agents and third-sector entities. We have agreed with a group of health experts, a group of doctors, nurses and hospital managers to make a proposal for a structural reform of the health system. This is the way this government works, this is the government administration DNA that I'm chairing. To set an example, in an area that will be close to them, the parliamentarian. While I have been chairing– two years, three months and twenty-seven days–, I have had the opportunity to hold twelve debates– I will not go in to specify all of them and each of them, but twelve debates, and thirteen, if we count the investiture–; two appearances; I have attended thirty-seven control sessions, in which I have given answers to 222 questions from parliamentary groups; and more than the various meetings in the space of the dialogue, as well as the various meetings I have held with parliamentary groups on the pandemic. And no, I wasn't just the one who came under parliamentary control; all the advisors from this government have been there. I also include the questions you have answered, as well as parliamentary initiatives that address you by writing to the Government. But beyond that, let me detail some of the actions we have developed to move towards the country we want: living, recovering, preparing for the future, global, equity, equality and justice. In the first place, a country saw. Because this is the country we have: a living country, full of dynamism. I was able to see it at the length of my visits from all the Catalan regions. I didn't visit forty-one; one was missing. They are businesses, all of them, that want full of life, to which they must provide opportunities for everyone, in search of a balance between the territory, the people and the sustainable development in accordance with the 2030 Agenda of which I will speak more forward. Given the recognition of the phenomena of depopulation, ageing and territorial abandonment, we have cleared up the strategy of territorial dynamism that we have named "Country of opportunity, living country; a project to generate opportunities for economic activity with three inspiring principles: transversality, to align policies and priorities of different administrations; bilaterality, establishing a solid and stable relationship with the local world, and singularity, always bearing in mind the specificities of each territory – it is clear that the urban regulations that serve the barrier of Grace cannot apply with the same literality to the Upper Earth, for example. So far, four territorial commissions have been set up in the districts with a high depopulation and population-enveloping index; they are the Pallars Sobirá, the Alt Urgell, the Upper Land and the Ribera d'Ebre. In this line of alliance with the local world, we have strengthened bilaterality with the Barcelona City Councils, the Hospital of Llobregat and Terrassa, once we have recovered the only platform of works and services, the PUOSC, a vital and important instrument for the local population. The new PUOSC, equipped with 250_million euros, wants to boost and improve the provision of public services, to face the situation of digital eclectic between territories, to face growing natural risks and to boost investments in equipment and actions derived from economic activation. With the plan, a total of 645_million euros will be activated in public works for the realization of 2,102 performances throughout the country during the next five years, "because the smallest people can embrace the largest enterprise, says the campaign launched on optical fiber. We have accelerated the deployment of optical fiber to reach all municipalities of more than fifty inhabitants. This 2020 we will have completed with the commitment to connect all the region's capitals, and we will have dedicated, only in this legislature, more than €70_million to deploy the new generation optical fiber network throughout the country. Once you finish the works, 2021, 90_percent of the people of Catalonia will be covered with the optical fiber network of the Generality, one of the most important projects and one of the projects that, if they allow me, for the world that will come, for the world after the Covid, I seem to be most relevancy. In this country he saw that we want there can be no lack of a determined bet for agri-food policies. We must highlight the efforts made to improve the competitiveness of the productive sectors, which bear years of difficulty, through specific plans such as fruit candy, which has counted on an investment of about 20_million euros and thirty-two concrete actions; citrus or hazelnut, to which the plans of scoc in support of the wine sector and the maritime sector are attached. Also, all the work aimed at establishing a new country food policy based on local food production and sustainable management of the environment, and which identifies itself under the brand already created with the name « Catalunya, where food is culture. We have established ways of modernizing our primary sector, such as the approval of the new Decree on the Management of Soil Fertility and Waste Management, which is long awaited for managers and managers and agreed with all parties. The adoption of the first Maritime Strategy of Catalonia 2030, innovative at European level, and the Decree of Governance of Professional Fisheries, which provides for a low-to-low management, integrated into all affected sectors, from fishermen and fishermen to research centres. An agricultural territory, collecting and fishing vitals. More than ever, we know that we are playing with the primary sector, one of the essential sectors, and that during this epidemic, if I may, it has demonstrated to what extent it is relevant for the day-to-day life of the country. As I said, in a country where large cities are cohabiting with small municipalities, we have developed various planning and urban planning tools such as, for example, in Upper Pirinaeus, where we have approved the Pla Urbanist director of the revision of unsustainable soils proposing the extinction of 8,552 habitats and of three-hundred_hectares of inadequate residential growth soil. We defended an orderly urban development, which allows us to have a dynamic, balanced and sustainable territory. The next step will be the final approval of this very plan for the Girona coast, a bold and unpublished decision in the history of the country – and I would like to recall that urban moratorium that this government has pushed and that is going, if I may, to save the Costa Brava from a destruction that threatened it. This order is complemented by the drafting of the Urban Agenda of Catalonia, which will serve to face the technological, environmental, energy and social cohesion challenges of the urban areas of the 21st century in the search for a balance between the urban world and the territory, two mons to which can guarantee the right to mobility. Set yourself, first: optical fiber, development of the primary sector, establish the conditions because everyone in this country can pull forward their life and professional projects where he thinks he wants to pull forward these projects. But because all this is possible we need an indispensable tool, which is mobility. Mobility, a country in the network, a country of public transport as an element of social and territorial cohesion. I want to highlight in this area the inn serving the new L10 South of the metro, with nine five stations, three in Barcelona and two in the Hospitallet de Llobregat; or the construction of the Tresponts tunnel, in the Alt Urgell, one of the most important works we are developing. Also the deployment and enhancement of the express bus network and of local communications to rural areas, with extension from transport to demand, which led 2019 to the maximum number of passengers in the conjunction of the public transport network of Catalonia. If you'd let me have a personal dream... I've had, so the fate of living two years in Switzerland. There are no AVEs in Switzerland. Switzerland is a country that lives in the network, where every town, even the most remote, lost in any, therefore, from the top of the Swiss Alps, knows that in an hour a public transport passes through that town. This is Catalonia in the network that I mean: let all the citizens know that, when they viscose, every hour there will be a public transport that can connect them to the rest of the country. In this territorial sphere of keeping the territory alive and attractive, the Parliament has approved the creation of the Agency of Nature of Catalonia, and the Government, the Strategy of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity of Catalonia, a document that marks the action of government in this matter until 2030. Finally, I can't let go of two important strands of this legislature related to the water cycle, which, if we started in previous legislatures, have ended in this one. First, we have cleaned up the Catalan Agency of Water, which in the period 2011-2019_has settled a bank debt of 1,388_million euros, which has allowed, for example, to allocate more than 50_million dollars in river restoration and repair of water cycle infrastructures affected by the temporary Glory of the past generation. Second, we have created the Ter-Llobregat Water Supply Ens, the ATL, which manages the water supply network for 4_million_i_mig inhabitants and strengthen public control and democratization by means of citizen participation. The new public ATL will invest 150_million euros in five years to modernize the facilities and improve the efficiency of the network. All this is to ensure water management with sustainable criteria, as it is also a key element in ensuring its quality and availability with social, economic and environmental criteria. Second point, a country recovered. It also recovered because we came from an economic crisis from which we were hostage and for which we were pushing a whole series of initiatives to generate economic activity and job opportunities. A situation that, as he explained, has been badly shaken by the health emergency, but it means that we have not stopped working for a moment. The country's modernization also goes hand in hand to facilitate economic activity for businesses and to generate employment – it cannot be otherwise – at the expense of businesses and defending each of the workplaces. This has also followed the policy pursued by this government. We have approved, for this reason, the Facilitating Law of the economic activity, in order to streamline the relations between enterprises and administrations, and which has benefited 564,000 enterprises and 362,000 autonomes or we have deployed the Single Business Window Implementation Plan 2019-2021, with the pepper at the center of the management. APEUs have also been approved, the law to create areas of urban economic promotion, to promote trade and strengthen the role of commercial associations, or the Agenda for Trade 20/21. We have developed a tourism marketing plan and a strategic tourism plan 2018-2022, which we are now reorienting to the new circumstances, more than counting with help and direct measures stem from the crisis of the Covid. Since the ICF continued to drive the financing of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and entities, with the aim of contributing to the growth, innovation and sustainability of the Catalan economy. In concrete terms, during the year 2019, 1,564 businesses and self-governments were financed for a value of €662.3 million, which represents an increase of 10 and mig per cent compared to the same period of the previous year. Nice work. I can't help but say that I love the industrial situation in our country. We're concentrating a quarter of the Spanish industry. Industrial production fell by 1,3_per_cent in 2019 and by 6 and mig per cent in July compared to the previous year. Therefore, here we must concentrate a great deal of effort on it. So we did, working to find a solution to Nissan's tank, without rest, but the news coming from other companies, such as the Saint-Gobain or Bosch glassworks, all due to the Penedès, worry us. That is why, too, our advisors are also called upon and decided to find a solution. Because we have to find her. We have to make agreements. We have to move the ground and the ground to maintain and reorient the activity and save each of the places of work. We are moving forward with the deployment of the 2017-2020 National Pact for Industry, of which 92 and mig percent of the first three-year period has been implemented and is already working in the future. We have also set aside a support plan for the mobility and automotive industry to help convert more than two-hundred businesses in the sector. Catalonia depends on the strength of its labour market and the quality of labour relations. We are not a country of first materials; we are a country of talent. And that's why each of our corporate initiatives is so important. That's why every single one of our workers is so important. We have a concerted, consensual effort of all the organizations and for this we have formed, last April, the Council of Social Dialogue, formed by the Government, trade unions and employers more representative, as an organ of permanent institutional participation that must age to make a step forward in the catal mark of labor relations, strengthen the dialogue and social concertation as mechanisms to strengthen the country's product fabric. We have also set up the Council of Autonomous Work, which remained silent for more than two years, as a specific area of social concertation to agree on measures to promote autonomous work and debate to give responses to the immediate challenges, to periodic and systematic troubadours with representatives of the Third Social Sector through the Third Sector Table, and then, together with the document of Social Catalonia, which I will speak to you more closely. Also worth mentioning is the increase in the assumption of employment policies, that 2019 has reached almost 1,000_million euros – 920 –, where priority has been placed in the exclusion risk groups – people over 45 years old, long-term unemployed, young, women, people with low qualifications and people with disabilities – as well as the full deployment of guaranteed citizenship income, with the approval of its regulation and the 100_per_cent assimilation of the adequacy return indicator. The guaranteed income of citizens already counts with more than 126,000 beneficiaries and more than 30_million monthly expenditure, monthly expenditure. Third point. A country prepared for future challenges. We want to place Catalonia as a knowledge, training, innovation and leadership in the technological change for the better of living conditions. In this sense, the National Knowledge Society Pact was important, of which we approved the final document on 9 June, and in a first phase, until the year 24, you plan to pay a global R & D & I expenditure of 2,12_per_cent of Catalan GDP, with the aim of matching us to the current European Union media. In the framework of this plan we are processing the defined text of the Advance Bill of Science of Catalonia, after having been exposed to public information so that it proceeds in a manner similar to the draft law with the objective of strengthening the autonomy of research centres and placing Catalonia on the agenda of international research, development pending of Article 158 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Catalonia is its world reference research infrastructure, such as the Alba-CELLS synchro or the Barcelona Supercomputing Center, to which this year 2020 the European Commission has awarded aid of up to 100_million euros for the co-financing of supercomputer MareNostrum 5, which will be one of the fastest and most capable of computing the world. An infrastructure for which the assumption of this year envisages an initial reversal of €9 million in order to be able to cope with the first adaptations and installations that will require this new version of the Catalan supercomputer. In short, all of this calls for a change of tendency in the years following the crisis and in the presuppositional prorogations, which allow the consolidation of the formation, attraction and retention of the talent necessary to boost innovation and strengthen our economic fabric, from the confluence of the academic and researcher world and the world of the enterprise, this virtuoso circle, this triangle between research centres, our universities and companies. A leadership that would not be understood without the input of the new technologies. The Internet and the digital revolution are rapidly transforming people's lives, industry and services. That's it. We've seen it even more, if any, during these pandemic months and since the government, they've done their dues to complete this digital race. We encourage a digital agenda of the country, highlighting the strategies we have developed of artificial intelligence, 5G, blockchain, digital citizenship, digital administration or cybersecurity. In this sense, as you know, we have set aside the Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia, and we have managed to extend the compromise until the year 2024 of the Mobile World Congress, knowing that, despite the fact that it was not possible to celebrate the edition of encany, it is a ribbon for our country, as a generator of innovation and capitality. All folded, it places Catalonia at the top five of the most digitally advanced countries in Europe, as established by the Digital Economy and Society Index, the DESI, the index of reference created for the European Commission to measure and compare digital competitiveness in Europe. Catalonia obtained, therefore, an excellent position in connectivity, where it is the leader in mobile broadband coverage and digital public services. Yes, we are an international referent and we have to be proud, to be proud, but we don't have to go on feeling and we have to go on working because that's what it is, and therefore we have to boost all those projects with a clear internationalizing vision. This summer we were able to announce a project of vital importance to the digital economy of Catalonia: the arrival of a subsea cable of optical fiber of international connectivity that has to turn Catalonia into a pole of attraction of great investments of the new digital economy and that has to allow our technological ecosystem to provide better digital services all over the world. At the same time, in order to be able to bring about an acceleration of the digital transformation of educational centres, we must guarantee equal opportunities and the fight against digital bretxa. For this reason, we approved the Digital Education Plan 20-25, which provided an extraordinary amount of € 185_million up to the year 25. The plan will provide 300.000 portable computers for the third year of ESO to the post-compulsory level; 110,000 connectivity packages for the vulnerable year; 1,230 LAN wifi networks will be installed in the centre, and up to 85,000 devices will be made easier for teachers to use from home. An assignment that we had pending, however, and to which it will be necessary to devote even more efforts in the future to build the country of quality we want, is the Catalan model of vocational training that defines the Law of Vocational Training and Qualification and which was also approved with the consent of economic and social agents, as well as education and work administration. It has continued to deploy this legislature with the entry into operation of the Rector Commission of the Vocational Training and Qualification System for the integration of the initial, continuous and occupational FP; also with the approval of the basic document of the Catalan Strategy of Vocational Training and Qualification of Catalonia or the statutes of the Public Agency of Vocational Training and Qualification of Catalonia, also in itself of the system's Rector Commission. But we want to boost this new professional formation. Between the years 2018 and 2021 we will allocate and we have already allocated 27_million euros to different programs, all relating to dual FP, to our cycles, to teacher training, etc. We want, therefore, modern and efficient public equipment, too, and this is why we have started the transfer of almost 2,400 people from the Generality to the new administrative district, which means that it will amount to an estalvi of 70_million euros for public arches, but above all a modernization and a new way of working of public administration, modern, effective, less paper, adapted to our times, so as to respond to the opposite and the changing needs of the country and its citizens. We have worked to maximize the social return of public resources in favour of citizens through more efficient management, assessing the impact of public policies and using contracting as an economic and social transformation lever. This is why we approved, for example, the Catalan Contract Strategy, the corporate tax policy strategy model or the reservation of public contracts with entities that promote integration and social inclusion. And it is obvious, obviously, that these months have passed with the epidemic, that in this process of modernization there is a dominant role of teletreball, in which the Generality has been pioneering in regulating it through a decree that places the work at a distance as one more option in the Administration, I think in line with what is to be an administration of the 21st century. Four points. A global country. No, we don't resign to being stuck in our geopolitical space. We want to be an active country in a globalized world. We want to have a personal view of the debate and the back, because the world is the responsibility of all, of small and large nations. We want to improve the conditions of the planet and be an active part in building a better world. This begins, for example, by talking about climate action, which requires cross-cutting work that integrates both the environmental and social and economic spheres. And that's why the government formally declared the climate emergence to meet the mitigation targets set to the Climate Change Law. That's why we celebrated the first Catalan Climate Action Summit with the goal of encouraging action by putting adherence to real and tangible commitments in the fight and adaptation to climate change. A compromise that is not new today, but that is paid back years back, when almost no one talked about it or in bad case. It is no wonder, therefore, that we should congratulate ourselves on the fact that the United Nations climate change web portal has accepted inclusion in its database of the global indicator of adaptation of the impacts of the climate change in Catalonia; all a recognition of the work driven in this area by the Government. As for energy, the processing of the Catalonia Energy Transition Law, which aims to achieve a fully renewable energy-based energy model by 2050, has begun and will set out the principles for completing the Climate Change Law and the basis of the National Pact for the Energy Transition of Catalonia. Once we have passed a decree on urgent measures for climate change and the impulse of renewable energies, which removes administrative barriers and establishes much more agile procedures for the deployment of wind and photovoltaic energy. The world, respecting all the diversity of thinking and doing, in important things, must go to one. Somehow we're all loggers on this planet Earth, it's all connected. The consequences that one country takes affect another, either for good or for bad; we are not winged. That's why we've put our grit in order to send us where – and we agree – the UN says. We have approved the National Platform for 2030 Catalonia, which included 920 commitments, of which 810 will be implemented in Catalonia and 110 will have a global impact. The fruit of this was born the Alliance Catalunya 2030, a great pact of country that demonstrates the ability to agree when it comes, and for the world it is now. I'm reinvigorating the pactist tradition in Catalonia, I think this was a great pact. And, in this case, more than three hundred people representing a dozen Catalan organizations and entities from different backgrounds made possible this alliance that gives us a future hope. The easing of trade and the global interchannels visible from before the pandemic due to tensions between the Xina and the United States and the uncertainty linked to Brexit have also affected the impact of the coronavirus. Tanmateix, it must be underlined that Catalan exports of goods increased their growth rate to 3.1_per_cent in 2019 compared to 2.2_per_cent in 2018, and even at fever they maintained a positive growth rate. And from the Mayan they increased again. The diversification of exports has been key in order to reduce the impact of sotrac on our European markets. Thus, from generation to June, the accumulated exports to Xina increased by 56,6_per_cent compared to 2019. And also the technological improvement: until June, the export of high-tech goods grew by 11.2_per_cent in accumulated terms. I think that these positive facts must also reflect on the post-Covide world and the opportunities of the post-Covide world that are happening in our country. For what it does to foreign investment, if we take five-year averages to reduce its volatility, we note that in the period 2015-2019 it is 35.2 per over the previous period. In that first quarter of enguany, Catalonia dared..., attract – forgive – 668_million euros, xifra that represents a_quarter of the rebuttal investment to the whole of the State. In annual terms, the mad fall only of the minus 9,6_per_cent in relation to the 64,2_per_cent of the State, continuing the trend of the 2019 tank. At all times we have been aware of the importance of the global economy to our country's businesses, to our economy. In this sense, in this global and complex world we have created the Catalonia Exponential initiative to help Catalan companies apply Silicon Valley's innovation in technologies such as blockchain, 3D printing, big data and artificial intelligence, or the Brexit window to accompany Catalan companies ahead of a Brexit that made the past generation, or the range of barriers to internationalization that has driven Action and its offices abroad. All in all, all these actions, which we can only make a point of now, have made the Financial Times recognize past Catalonia's fever as the best region to invest in southern Europe for the period 2020-2021. The third time that Catalonia was at the forefront of this biannual race, one of the most prestigious on an international scale. From this global world in which we move, so our voice needs to be felt. My mandate began with the devastation that caused 155. For this reason, the first one we did was to reopen the delegations abroad and suspend the mandate of the liquidation of the Council of Public Diplomacy, the Diplomacy. And all the continuous and permanent footprints that the Spanish government has put on, whatever color it is, we have been able to open three new delegations: in Tunisia, Argentina and Mexico. And he's working to open it up three more: in Australia and New Zealand, Japan and Senegal. You would absolutely need it in this global world, as I said. And for the export potential of our country and the ability to attract investments from our country, it has also been shown in the pandemic that they are useful for the city of Catalonia: since March 12, 2020, more than three_ thousand people have been trapped in alienation during the pandemic, from one hundred_nine countries. Many of these people have not gone to the Spanish embassies, but come to the delegations of Catalonia to find solutions to their problems. And as we are not alone in the world, after approving the Master Plan for Development Cooperation 2019-2022, we have deployed the corresponding annual plans, which this 2020 foresees the highest increase that has ever been made in this area: official development aid up to EUR 52.8 million, an increase that confirms the Generality's willingness to allocate 0.7_percent of the Government's assumptions to cooperation in 2030. Five. A country of equality and equity. From the investiture speech, if I may, we have insisted on the same: a country in which welfare is one of the pillars to ensure equality, equity and social cohesion; health, education, social rights, housing, equality and culture as the foundations of this social right buildings we want. Yeah, culture too, here, like the social right we want for the country. In the field of health, the legislature has prioritized primary care, professionals and prevention. One of the first acts I took part in as president was the inauguration of the CAP de la Mina, a pioneer in the new strategy of primary care and community health, and one of the last acts, together with the vice president, was the agreement of the new location of the Doctor Trueta University Hospital after new years of negotiation, and what it means for all the gronins to know that we will have a new hospital. So did the agreement to expand the Raval CAP a few months ago. All this has to be people's real problems, I say. At the hospital level, the new smart ICU of the Vall d'Hebron was inaugurated, which will serve 2,200 patients in the year and which is the largest in the State, and we have begun the works of the new hospital of Viladecans, to which we will invest 61_million euros, widely claimed. Only to put two important examples in the field of salvation. Taking into account that we came from a crisis with the health professionals, a crisis also solved by talking and talking to them, we created the Forum of the Professional Dialogue to give a view to the health professionals and to give a first full route of professional health policies from Catalonia, with 185 actions for the next four years. We have also created, at the outset, a committee of experts to transform the public health system, formed by people of renown prestige in the field of the health system and the economy of health and public administration, and who will tell the Palau de la Generalitat that they will present me with the document in which they summarise their proposals. If at any point I ask this chamber that there is a consensus to bring forward this structural reform of the health system more necessary than ever is this. I am sure that we will disagree on many issues, but they are asked for the effort, their collaboration and an honest debate on the proposal that thirty independent health professionals make to the country to structurally reform the health system. It's an opportunity we can't let go. And they ask for their cooperation. All of this was accompanied by an increase in resources thanks to the adoption of the 2020 budget, which represented the second highest salvation reversal in history, with €9,789_million. I put, for example, the reform of primary care, with approval just a few days ago from the Board of Reinforcement and Transformation of primary care, with a reversal of almost 300_million euros until 2022. It envisages structural and future measures as the incorporation of more than 3,800 new professionals from various specialties and with new profiles. This is expected to answer the 25_per_cent– 25_per_cent– increase in health care demand planned for the next year, in this area of the country's health care system. Also – we said "Hello" – Education: educational policies also have a vital role to play in the construction of this country of equality, equity and social cohesion. In order to combat school segregation and to guarantee effectively and effectively an educational model based on equal opportunities, the important Pact against School Segregation was approved with the consent, another time, of the different actors involved in the field of education. It has also advanced in the deployment of the Inclusive Education Decree, as a tool of social and territorial cohesion, with the contract of 445 new professionals by 2020, which add to the three hundred incorporated in the last two years. An investment of €54 million is planned for teachers and technicians, monitors, transport, services, training and technological expenditure. They have also moved forward – and that is to say that this was a very interesting initiative of Councillor Bargalló and that he drinks of the country's pedagogical tradition – the school institutes, as a public model that enhances the continuity and coherence of the educational project along the different stages. In the line started two years later, this school year increases in twenty-nine the schools in Catalonia. In total, there will be eighty-three centres of this type. This 2020 has run out of jobs worth more than €76_million both in new construction centres and rehabilitations. In addition, new constructions and major works in educational centres worth more than €90 million have been approved. Also, thanks to the assumptions and the negotiations that led to these assumptions, this year is recovering the reversal in education from zero to three years, all going from 0 to 70_million euros, a key educational stage in the development of infants and equal opportunities. And, in another order of things, also linked to our assumptions, has also approved the decree of university pre-publics for the course 20-21, which establishes that all students of the Catalan public universities will pay a 30_per_cent less in the price of the enrollment of the undergraduate and master's degrees, a price reduction that will continue in proper courses, with the equal price of masters to the degree and the power of paid scholarships for the collectivists who abandon the education system more, despite having capacity and merit. This will improve the fairness and effectiveness of the public system of scholarships and study aid, pending – pending – the transfer to the State despite the feeling favorable to Catalonia, but we already know that when we have favorable feelings, the State does not pass away. In the social sphere, there are many lines that we could highlight, but I would like to stress the agreement recently reached with the Table of Entities of the Third Social Sector and the Confederation, under the name "Acord for a Social Catalonia", which establishes the lines of the model of social recovery, the axes in which the orientation of the public policies of the Generality in the post-Covid-19 era is to be structured and which represent more than 4,200 entities of the third sector in Catalonia. I think it's also one of the great country agreements, together with the agreement of economic recovery and social protection bases that we agreed on in the Social Dialogue Council with entities, employers and unions. Also, if I may – and it was a topic in which I personally was very directly involved – I am very pleased to have advanced into the National Covenant for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, for which the Covenant table, formed by a six-year period, has already been established, and that the week we will be having a meeting to continue working on this topic again. It has to address, from a legislative point of view, assumptions and public policies, all the challenges that citizens have with disabilities, all the challenges. We have also approved the instruments that guide the Government's action in the social field, such as the Inter-Departmental Family Support Plan 19-21, the National Associationism and Volunteering Plan 2021; the Catalan Strategy for the Collition and Inclusion of Children and Young Migrants Alone, and started working in the Strategic Social Services Plan 20-25, among many others. In summary, we have fixed the lines of the social services of the future. But a just country is also characterized by a determined housing policy, and focused on facilitating access and conservation for the most vulnerable. Thus, we have approved the Decree of 23 December of 17/19 on urgent measures to improve access to housing. We have recovered the Law of urgent measures to face the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty, with the new force of the articles that refer to the social logger and the compulsory cessation of housing of the banks; the modification of the planning in Barcelona, to allocate 30_percent of the new promotions or rehabilitations of protected housing, or to work for the containment of yields in the rental contracts of housing, to stop the increase of the loggers. We have seen that the government is not alone, and we are not happy, and that the Parliament of Catalonia is just as aware that we, when we find solutions to the housing problems we have in Catalonia, emerged, like so many other things, even more in this time of pandemic. And, if we've been working on an urban lease bill ever since the government, the parliamentary groups have advanced you in time. Since the government we have made our own proposal for the law that we approved a few days ago, and I particularly welcome the fact that we have made this law possible – that I am convinced that it will not be resorted to by the most progressive government of the Spanish history – we have made it possible to contain the price of the loguer in the barrels or cities, with an accredited lack of reliable housing, making it real at the same time as the right and legitimate interests of all parties. An effective housing policy must not only act on demand and regulation, but must also have a global view and bet to increase the offer of protected housing as a rule. In this sense, between the years 18 and 19, 104 million euros were allocated to acquire 1,409 habitats through the storm and retraction. This has made it possible, together with other measures, that the Agency of the Habitat of Catalonia past to manage 18,748 habitats destined for social logger, at the end of the 18th, to manage 20,440 at the end of the 19th. And to expand the public park of logger habitats, in the 20-21 biennium, 663 more will be built, with an inversion of 75_million euros. Moreover, in order to ensure that housing remains, more than 61,000 aid per import was granted in 2019 in excess of EUR 112_million, i.e. significantly more than 45,000 aid per import of 82_million, which had been granted in 2015. Hi, education, housing, culture... as I say, yes, culture, here, right here, as a social right. According to Friburg's statement, culture and language are social rights, and as instruments of social cohesion, the Government has strengthened in this legislature the cross-cutting of various cultural policies beyond departmental administration. The cultural sector has been one of the most affected, and it is patenting the consequences of the pandemic. We have discovered, however, now more than ever, the need for culture to live; the essence of culture directly connects with people's lives. I think any of us could survive without a cultural activity. Therefore, precisely because of this, it is urgent that we know the critical moment that culture has seen, that we know how to rescue culture, to place it at the center of our lives, because it is an essential service. And now we have an important demand, which is to declare culture essential, because this will make an aspiration that the Catalans have always understood, since we have considered culture the fourth pillar of the welfare state. We understand, therefore, that as well as salvation, education and social services are the pillars of the state of classical welfare, culture is – and it is especially, if you will, for us – the fourth essential pillar. Catalonia would not be Catalonia without its language and culture. From the first moment of the pandemic, when the Spanish government decreed the state of alarm, we called for the inclusion of the cultural sector among the services essential for preventing its closure and protecting creators, workers and cultural entrepreneurs. We asked for what had been done, for example, by the German Federal Government, March 2020, which considered the cultural sector to be a prime necessity. Members, Members, I hope you will support the motion for a resolution that we are debating these days in order to declare culture as an essential service. It will not be an easy way; we will have to develop and approve the necessary standard changes because it is possible to make this recognition and also those of the fundamental cultural rights, which must guarantee the continuity of cultural activities despite the restrictions that the pandemic can impose. And that's why they need their support. We have also promoted the synchronization of cultural policies between administrations and territories through the constitution of the Council of the Cultural Commonwealth with the four members of Catalonia. I, who come, let's say, from classical Catalanism, still remember how the theorists pointed out the non-feeling of the deputies to our country. I think that this Council of the Cultural Commonwealth should not be an exception, I think that all the different activities that are fan of Catalan parliaments should be coordinated with the policy of the Generality. This is what we hope, that all the public actions that are done in Catalonia are coordinated by the Government of the Generality. We will continue to work in the process of making Catalonia the capital of audiovisual and video games in southern Europe. And all folded on the basis that culture, I say, is a tool of social cohesion. We approved the strategic plan of the MNAC. We have done actions, as you know, to His Vella de Lleida, Escaladei or Saints Creus. We have modified the bases of twenty-five grants to incorporate specific criteria of social character, equity, equality and inclusion. And for what he does in the language, I mean he's killing us. As a collective compromise in favor of normalization of our language before the attempts of residualization and minority of the Catalan, we cannot resign ourselves. I don't plan on resigning there, because if the language fails, everything fails. We hold this field with various activities in the field of sport and physical activity. The presentation of the National Pact for Physical Activity and Sport of Catalonia, which contemplates the complaints of the WHO, proposed to link physical activity and health, has taken place. A new law on physical activity and sport has been passed in Parliament and a programme has been created for the preparation of the bid for the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Winter Piraeus-Barcelona, 2030. Yeah, a country just like that. A fair deal means ensuring equal opportunities for the whole country. It also implies a policy of cross-cutting, but real cross-cutting. This has been an important element in the long run of the legislature and we have moved to the approved government plan two years ago. We have done and we have deployed the Strategic Platform for Gender Equality Policies 2019-2022 and we have also allocated more money than ever in the fight against male violence, up to 32_million euros in 2019, starting the work planned for the approval of the National Pact for the Eradication of Male Violence in Catalonia. We have incorporated the gender perspective into health policies, for example, with a new model of endometriosis care, a new protocol for the follow-up of pregnancy, or with a health policy advisor. We have also set aside the Rural and Maritime Women's Council, to put value on and strengthen the role of women, also in the rural and maritime agri-food sector. We have approved the DonaTIC platform to promote the engineering between the girls and women of the country and we have created the Catalan Observers of Justice in Male Violence, and deployed the protocol of security against sexual rape in the vicinity of the oci. And a country can't be just if we don't get rid of corruption. The 15th generation of 2020 we approved the Strategy of Fighting Corruption and Strengthening Public Integrity, with twenty-five concrete actions, which in fifteen months must be all implemented. We're moving on to a good rhythm. Among the soliments, the creation of an area of civic participation in the follow-up of the strategy and anonymization of the ethical goods, which would soon be expanded with three nine goods, one hundred_per_cent anonymities. I want to highlight the decision taken also to act as a particular accusation in the known case of 3_per_cent that affected the old Convergence. At the same time, a few weeks ago, we made public the balance of the 2019 year of the tax fraud prevention and reduction plan 2013-2022, according to which the Catalonia Tax Agency beat its own record and brought forward 204_million euros of tax fraud, an 11.1_per_cent more than the previous year. In total, the control actions carried out for the tax agency to prevent and reduce fraud have grown by around 945_million euros over the last five years. This, sense of doubt, is one of the lives we have to go on and deepen. For this reason, we cannot afford a system that tolerates corrupt practices or that tolerates those practical evils that, without being criminal, therefore are countered to the ethics of respect, equal opportunities and public competition. In this case, zero tolerance with practical evils. Zero tolerance; stop. Because we need to look for excellence. And we are also deploying initiatives to make the Administration of the Generality a better, more agile, more modern administration, adapted to the needs of the citizens of the 21st century. This is why we have approved a public occupation offer of 15,018 seats with the objective of increasing the employment stabilization to the Generality, the call of 6,633 public places in 2019 directed primarily to basic services, 5,000 per teacher, 820 per Mossos d'Esquadra, 250 per Bombers. And we've been trying to get back and preserve public employees' labor rights, which we've had pending in this country since 2013. And this government did it. A safe country is also a socially just and satisfied country. We have worked on future police and emergency laws, of which we have already approved preliminary memoranda, and we have provided more human and material resources for different bodies. We have created a thousand new seats in the field of security and emergencies. We have worked in the best of working conditions and equipment of public servants, lock in the Cos d'Agents Rurals. I want to highlight three compromises which I had pending in this country. The agreement with the 2019-2022 Bombers, which improves working conditions after more than two years of claims. Dos, the agreement of the working conditions of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra. And the deployment of the Strategic Map of the Rural Agents' Cos 2019-2024, also widely claimed. For what it does in the field of justice, we have promoted measures and methods alternating with justice in the resolution of conflicts, with the obligation of an information session on mediation, or with the specific program of "Mediation: dialogue and agreement before the Covid". We also created a media office on registrations. And we've deployed telematics media to prisons and justice administration services to facilitate contacts and services in pandemic times. Finally, the accelerated retreat in civil and political rights that we have experienced in our country the past few years forced us – and I would say that it motivated us – to put the Office of Civil and Political Rights on the march. Adding a new instrument: the first Pla de Drets Humanes in Catalonia 2020-2023, with a set of initiatives to make Catalonia a more just country, among which, for example, there is the demand of the Catalan government to the Spanish executive to make the social relationship of more than 150,000 people in an irregular situation in Catalonia more flexible. And it is in this set of rights that we have demanded from the outset democratic memory through the elaboration of a Catalan law to provide us with a comprehensive instrument and adjusted to the international criteria of truth, justice, reparation of victims and guarantee of non-repetition, through the dispatch of more than four thousand documents of nullity of the French courts. I would like to remind you that this Parliament approved a law to annul the courts of the Councils of War, which has already been approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. And I would like to congratulate the then responsible for this initiative, advancing us, once more, to the proposals made by the Spanish Government. So more than four thousand documents of nullity of the French courts have already been issued, because we have already annulled them in Catalonia. They won't cancel us again. No, we've already done it in Catalonia, they've already moved on. And through having managed to overcome the thirty pits of the Civil War and the open Franco dictatorship and the recovery of 308 people. The recovery of 308 people might seem like a low number, but each of these 308 people is a story in it itself and the families that have been able to recover this story, the families to whom they stole their future. I think it's also worth putting up with for a moment and remembering them. I would also like to recover, if I may, the claim in the year of the anniversary of the assassination of President Lluís Company, that the Spanish State must apologize publicly and on behalf of the Head of the Execution and Head of the State to the people of Catalonia for that infaust assassination. This is the whole block of government management that we've done and that we're doing both before the Covid and some points that the Covid has also forced us to do. But now I would like, in this next block of the intervention, to focus exclusively on explaining to you all that we have been doing with respect to the fight against this epidemic, bearing in mind that we celebrated a plethora at the beginning of July and that all the measures that I then explained to you, so I gave them by reproduction. And that, therefore, I will focus on explaining to you above all the actions that the Government of Catalonia has done in the months of July, August and until now. Without doubt, this legislature will end up being remembered as the Covid legislature. A legislature not only in Catalonia, all the governments of the world, in all the countries, all without distinction, that have had to stop, have had to reorient their policies because of an alien fact, absolutely unexpected and of extraordinarily heavy dimensions. I insist that I refer to the special debate diary, which was held on 1 July, for which it refers to all the actions that we have done until then, the hotels of salvation, of sub-administrations, of residence plans, of reinforcement of the telephone service, of contracts of reinforcement, etc. I think it is more valuable and more interesting for all of you, Members and Members, therefore, to explain to them the situation of these last months and the forecasts we have. Because, as they are perfectly aware, the disease has not stopped, it is still between us and, moreover, this summer has had an important impact on our lives. We must therefore continue to talk about health, educational, economic and social emergencies. I want to make it clear to everyone that the fight against Covid is now the first priority of my government and that all the councils have the task of concentrating their policies and decisions here. We dedicate the twenty-four hours of the day, because we know what the country is playing at. And nothing, nothing will divert us from this absolute dedication to the life and salvation of people. And for his work places, of course I do. Because we're in a health emergency, we're in an economic emergency, in a labor emergency, and in an educational emergency. About the emergence of health care. From the beginning of the pandemic until September 14 in Catalonia there has been – according to the latest data from the Health Department – 124,000 confirmed cases of Covid per PCR – more than 147,000 if we add the rest of the methods – and 13,173 people have died. The Government of Catalonia – as you know – includes all the deaths that have occurred in Catalonia, because we are going to take the given at the end, not only the transplants in hospitals at which a PCR test was carried out, no, also all those people who have been transferred to residences or homes. We think it's the only way to give true and transparent data to the citizenry. And I urge the Spanish State to do the same. It is essential that the citizenry knows the gravity of this situation. If in Catalonia 13,173 people have died, in Spain more than fifty_ thousand people have died. This is the situation today in the Spanish State. A very difficult situation. 46,676 people from the pandemic have required hospitalization and 4,780 have been admitted to critical beds. The situation now is different from what was at the peak of the pandemic. Okay, some figures: on April 6th, we had 1,529 people entering the ICU – more than 1,500 people. It's the peak of the pandemic. April 28th – 15 days later, a little more, 20 days later – this was less than half the number of 749 cases. Put the pandemic back. On July 8th, we were able to solve the minimum number of patients with forty reviews at Catalan hospitals. O follow, it is fixed how it evolves from the 6th of April until the 8th of July. By all means, all these months – April, May, June, July – we arrive at forty reviews. Now, from the end of July – in which the number of patients admitted to the ICU exceeds one hundred – we find ourselves in Catalonia in a situation of a stable, let's say, in which we have been oscillation between one hundred and twenty, one hundred and thirty, a little..., up to one hundred and forty. We're moving into this situation. And, therefore, we remain stable. But this shutdown isn't good news. You've got to go down. They have to go down... we have to get back to this situation as we had it in July. That would be the best situation. At the date of 14 September, the risk of resurgence in Catalonia is 157. A lot more than two-hundred that we've come to have this July and August, but also a lot of desirable cents, which is also the mark of international criteria. One hundred and fifty-seven. I suppose today you've read the papers and know what the high risk situation is in Madrid, which goes from five hundred. Or the situation of the recovery of Euskadi, Navarre or Rioja, which is more than three hundred. Or Castles, or practically all autonomous communities. Catalonia is only in the five-year position starting at risk of rebound. I mean, he's done a good job. But it's no consolation, I insist, because our goal is to reach a hundred. It's no consolation. Now, as we are, we have a problem. We have a huge problem. And I think it's our duty to warn of the problem we have. You can't go on with these rebound risk taxes. It's impossible to think that this way we'll get out of it. You see, we see what is happening to Israel; we see how the second one is evolving. I demand that responsible decisions be taken. Listen, it wasn't easy to shut down Segria and Lleida, and with a certain social response. But today the Segria – and Lleida – is one of the best places in the country; with the best risk of resurgence in the country. So you have to make decisions, because if you don't think about dropping more than five hundred points of rebound risk in Madrid? Honestly... [[Pause.]] Fi. I told them, in the state market, so Catalonia is today the fifth territory with a lower cumulative incidence rate. According to the data of the ministry, in the last seven days we had 57.31_percent of cases per hundred_thousand inhabitants. I insist, a lot of what's in other territories, but it's no consolation. I, sometimes, when I see these regions I think, "Do you think this is a race? That it's a race between governments? Why all these communities that I've cited, listen to me, they rule all the political colors there, huh? There are people from the PP, there are people from the GNP, there are people from Ciutadans, there are people from Potem, there are people from the PSOE, there are people of all political colors. And I know that all governments do what they can. And, therefore, this outcome for me is not in absolute comfort, but it does prove that we are facing a very complicated situation, but that decisions have to be made. Above all, decisions must be taken. It is that every hour that is not making a decision, at these times it becomes – I think – an irresponsible one. So, listen, this isn't a race. All my solidarity with all those territories of the State that may need the help of Catalonia. We are at your disposal for whom I need to explain the things that we have done well, to explain to you the things that we may not have done well, but that can help you not to fall into the mistakes that we may have fallen into. No problem, because it's about getting better among all of us. And, therefore, from here, once again, to all the presidents and presidents of the autonomous communities of the Spanish State, first, my solidarity; second, all the help I need from Catalonia. As you know, these data – which are a data of stabilization that have a double reading – have forced us to limit the meetings to two people, carried out from work and public transport; they have obliged us to apply certain measures of closure of the night oci; to strengthen the work of the primary and the managers Covid; to create an execution committee of integrated crisis for myself, the vice president, the councillors of Presidency, Interior, Salut, the secretary of Public Health, of Education, and the director general of teaching centres. We have also introduced the Covid Transmission Control Plate, a full route to reduce virus transmission and cut off the transmission channels; there are different alert levels based on epidemiologic evolution and care pressure; provide 930 liters of baseline reviews in the public system with the capacity to expand to 2,023 liters if required, to more than 720 strategic reserve invasive respirators. We put these numbers in comparison to the situation I explained to them, huh? , this situation we have now itself of criticisms, between one hundred and thirty and one hundred and forty. Today, for example – very good data, today, or the 14th – all of our indicators have dropped: we are at 0.95 Rt and at 150 and risk of relapse, and hospitalisations and criticisms have also dropped us. But that doesn't mean that maybe three days from now, we'll fight lightly, but we'll keep this off. But we are already providing 2,023 beds per case, because it also seems vital to me the policy of prevention, because we have seen how cruel and how absolutely explosive this epidemic is. Therefore, we must be prepared, we must have planned things well, we must have acted rigorously, we must have equipped ourselves with all possible tools if we find ourselves in the worst of the scenes. We're in a stable scene, and the stable scenes go to unstable scenes, they go to scenes that are positively consolidated. Therefore, we have to work with all the scenes – with all the scenes. And that's why it's so important, therefore, that we've pulled this capacity to expand beds. We also have a four-month security stock, and the relevant commands have already been made so that we can count on the same of the October principles, 80 million units of material. In this same context, the purchase of 1_million_i_mig prop of doses of influenza vaccine, which is now late and winter, will be very important the vaccination policy. Just because they compare: this million and a half..., will be used or dispensed more than 230,000 more cows against the flu than last year. We have put a policy of massive cracks on the way – I think there has been one of the great uncertainties of this summer – to detect the cases of the Covid and to break the transmission chain in all the territories where they have been required: Badalona, Barcelona, Reus, Lleida ; now you know, also, recently, this weekend, that in Girona and Salt ; this week begins at Raval, too. I think that this policy of cribratges... that we will now do and use through the schools, with what will be more than a million, only in two months, of tests and that will help us to know the epidemiological situation population, I think it is one of the keys, therefore, of the policy to combat the epidemic. We've also informed about the five satellite hospitals on the way to Covid's ills – four in the metropolitan area and one in Lleida – that will be at the expense of the big hospitals, in anticipation, huh? , advancing us, but in anticipation, and cost 50_million euros. In the winter, the contracts of the 436 health-care professionals of the summer, which are more than 20_million euros dedicated and destined for primary care, will continue to make continuity contracts. I think we've also reinforced much more communication, much more constant, much more present; awareness in the areas of the ocean. I also want to thank the Red Cree for their collaboration at this point. I'm in the city hall. And many thanks also to all the gatherings. I think that everyone, really, all the administrations have been bulging and everyone has worked together in this, too, awareness campaign throughout the city to maintain the necessary preventive measures. This helps us to ensure peace and security. With regard to the emergence of education, I also believe that it is a subject that they know perfectly well. These days we have experienced the return to college – three days ago – between the nervousness of parents and students, the joy of the boys and girls to come back. We know that zero risk does not exist – we have seen it come from the world – but we also know that the schools must open, that this country must continue to work and that the schools will not close. We have presented the Education Centre Opening Plan and the Action Plan for the 2020-2021 course, with nine additional safety measures, and, as you know, they have been continuously reviewed in response to the epidemic indexes. The main objective of the centre's opening is, of course, to be able to offer lectural support and guidance, making special emphasis on the finals of the educational stage and on the tutorial and emotional follow-up of all the students. The Department of Education works to ensure the maximum presence of the student taking into account the exceptionality of the new course. I'd like to remind you that, yeah, the action plan was presented in July, huh? , with this willingness to anticipate us. And that yes, indeed, after what happened in July, at the end of July, and in August, and at these beginnings of September, it was intended to adapt to the new circumstances, and it will be necessary for us to adapt to those that may come in the future. This is why it is not the result of improvisation, it is simply a responsibility exercise to adapt at every moment to the evolution of the pandemic. The objectives of this plan, I said, and the instructions to the centres were that the school course started on September 14th, following the planned schedule, face-to-face and with all possible health and prevention guarantees; ensuring the right to education of all students equally with maximum inclusiveness and without segregation. I repeat, the schools have opened and won't lock up throughout the course. In the case of partial confinements, if necessary, they will continue to be open to ensure reconciliation to the families of essential workers, and also open to school children to ensure access to the food of pupils who have feeding scholarships. The best way to guarantee the students' food, also when they're in quarantine, is to have access to the food. The plan, however well-known... but allow me a few brief points. First, all children must have access to education on an equal footing; second, learning at the educational centres must be able to continue with the highest standard following the health instructions and ensuring the social function of education; third, the school is a safe environment– we know that zero risk does not exist–; fourth, through the measures proposed, the educational centres must be on condition that they also contribute to the control of the epidemic and to the rapid identification of cases and contacts. This is why, as you know, stable living groups have been established to facilitate the traceability of possible cases that are given to the educational centres; use of compulsory masks– if, twelve years, depending on the epidemiological situation of the area of which it is concerned; at these times throughout the country, therefore, of majors of six years– ; the realization of the population screening of a million people using the schools and institutes, which is already beginning the week that sees and will last until November 15. I was told by the education counselor. It is obvious that with this policy of cribratges will detect us cases. And this we need to know how to explain with serenity, with calmness, knowing that we are doing the right thing, knowing in every case how we should act. I think that's very important. The whole cribring policy has a clear objective: to help us control the epidemic. And the best way we can do it right now is through the schools. So far we've been acting in barrels of cities that required it. Now we'll use the scales to get there and look for the epidemic and be able to stop the traceables. They also know that we have approved an extraordinary expenditure of €233 million for the addition of more than 80,000 teachers and non-teacher staff to strengthen student education, apart from a digital education and fight against segregation. Finally – and I think it is also a good message for citizens – information, information and information. I want to thank everyone that in this epidemic has this responsibility to inform the citizenry, so, as they are doing, always in the most transparent way possible and offering all the data because the citizens have access to all the information. In this sense I want to remind all the parents and mothers that there are two new channels of information to Telegram, with daily and continuous information, that they are the channel Salut/School, for families, and the channel Salut/School Professional, for professionals. Also – a more personal topic – I had the opportunity, before starting the course, to speak with representatives of primary and secondary directors and directors to collect their concerns, to thank them – to thank them – for the work they have done these last few days, since September 1, but above all for the work they are doing since March 13, truly magnificent. I'm not tired of saying that this country has exceptional public servers. But it is true that, as I think we have the school well framed, there is a black hole; a black hole that I did not get out and that I ask the room for support, because at these times we already have a few students, so, confined to their home, not because they have a positive PCR, but because they are simply close contacts – and maybe you know some of these peers–, what do those couples have to do to ensure family reconciliation? What do those couples have to do to ensure reconciliation...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do you know the solution? [[Pause.]] So perfect; then his group will explain it to us. I couldn't. I insisted, I insisted, and I killed myself to tell the Spanish Government that it is necessary to regulate the job losses of the parents, too, the children of whom they have to do the quarantine simply because their children are close contacts, even if they do not have the positive PCR. But that's what's going to happen to us and it's going to be the most common case. And what do we leave these people in the background? The vice president, Mr. Iglesias, said: "No; let's regulate the job losses of the PCRs negatius. So we haven't regulated it. And now what do we have to do? Indeed, it seems to me a critical – critical theme. They're already wearing days. And that's going to be... 'cause that's going to happen to us: we're going to have to lock up classrooms. And what's the answer to the day, these couples? And to the companies of these workers? What about autonomies? What's the answer to this? They're asking them to help us. He asks them to press the Spanish government for rules once and for all of this low labor, because it's the only point that we don't have control and that it's an anguish for a lot of family couples. It's a monumental irresponsibility that hasn't regulated these downloads. And I can't understand that the discrepancies between the members of the Spanish Government, between the vice president and some ministers, have not been solved by a matter as vital as this, as vital. Result: disempowerment of many families; a disaster. That the Spanish Government urgently rectified. And it's very easy. Escort: The State only has to amend the Royal Decree Law 6/2020, of March 10. And there is an ordinary temporary disability. And that's it. Really. It's that it's a very easy regulation. We give them peace and quiet. It's that from the first day we're saying the same thing: how do I fight this epidemic? Giving tranquillity to the people who have to stay home to make quarantine. There's no other way. Why, what? Should those couples go to work? What's going to happen? Can anyone explain that to me? Can anyone explain to me what's going to happen to all these couples? And self-employed couples? So too. A special subsidy for self-government must be articulated in order to be able to give coverage to an exceptional situation, such as the quarantine of a child. Look, I talked to President Sanchez over the phone about a series of issues and he also came out. And I said: "Listen to me, what a problem, that if you do not want to regulate this incapacity, passing the competence to the Generality, that we regulate it immediately. We can't do it; we have to do it in the State. And it seemed that Vice President Iglesias wanted to pull over here. And he didn't get out. I don't understand. Because it's a serious issue. F-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f... In change, in what we have skills we are taking the measures that we can. Yesterday, we announced aid with a budget of 10_million euros for families with social vulnerability; aid of up to three hundred euros for 33,000 Catalan families to cover basic needs of care and subsistence, such as food, clothing and housing. I would also like to make an element of the Pla de leure educatiu, of the colonies and of the summer couples of this past summer, which has been a success. And maybe we didn't know how to value it enough. It was a success. And we don't have to congratulate each other, because things have happened too, but the citizenry didn't realize that they were critical, because if she knew what to do, if she knew how to act. And if we can translate this way of doing, acting and planning the schools we can maintain this level of serenity that the country also needs, in this matter, because every day we will be successful in the schools, every day; every day we will know that there are classrooms that tank, etcetera, because exactly what has happened to Berlin or what has happened to Israel has to happen to us. No, we can't have different things happen to us, no; we'll have the same thing happen to us. And so this will happen, but we need to know how to act. Just like we did with couples and summer colonies, which, I insist, have been a great success. I'm done. Economic and social emergence, because at the expense of health and education, emerges the economic and social emergence caused by the tremendous impact that Covid has had on our economy and our activity. To give some example, maritime and air transport statistics show a worrying weakened until June, with falls in tons of goods transported from minus 20.5_per_cent, and 34.6_per_cent, respectively. And despite the gradual recovery of activity from April, the industrial production indicators and the activity of the service sector are found in a minus 16_per_cent and a minus 18_per_cent of their usual levels in June. By June the impact of the Covid had reduced the Generality's revenues by EUR 941 million, and increased the expenditure by EUR 1,100 million. In total, 2,043_million euros – in total. And until the end of the year the additional expenditure needs are estimated at 2,565_million euros, with a reduction of 2,407 admissions respect the initial forecasts. Thus, almost 5,000_million euros in total. Until now the only extraordinary resources that have arrived through the Covid Fund of the Ministry of Hisenda..., have been rejected 1,246_million euros in July, 20.8_percent of the state total, by health criteria, and 337_million euros, 16.9_percent of the state total, by educational criteria. The State is about to distribute €8,000_million across the territories, but this amount is totally inadequate. Catalonia needs 5,000_million in direct transfers and to increase the target of the deficit to a minimum up to 1_percent of GDP, that is to say, 2,200_million euros respect the zero_per_cent forecast; « forecast and that we still have there, or still, we still have before us a zero_per_cent, and how many months ago this epidemic? How many months have we said: "Listen to me, we have to save the work places now that we can save them, not when we have lost them and are paying for services. It's now that we need these direct transfers. But I... look, in any case, we get to this point and before the systemic failure on the part of the State, listen, we'll do what we need to do, because we'll always advance the interests of the citizenry to the asphyxiating scars of the Spanish State. In July, the Government approved budgetary changes amounting to EUR 1,230 million to address the presupposition of the different departments, but the short-term situation raises difficult questions, and I told them: with a forecast of GDP falling by over 10 per cent, a rate of attunement that could fit up to 20 per cent. All this, Catalonia, how does it deal with it? With what resources do we have in front of us? So, again, I insist: with ours, with those that Catalonia generates. If we don't ask for more than that, the resources that our citizens generate. Before this complex scene, we either fold in and work together to reactivate the country and protect the most vulnerable and guarantee a welfare state that has cost us generations to win, or we won't get out, and we can't do it alone. For this reason, it was a great satisfaction to be able to sign the National Agreement of bases for economic recovery and social protection, negotiated with the unions Workers' Commissions and the UGT, and with the Promotion of Work and Pimec, an agreement that implies a historical compromise of country to make Catalonia advance towards an economic recovery without leaving anyone behind. The agreement sets out the general principles of a product model that aims to foster sustained, inclusive, high-quality, sustainable development goal 8, decent and growing economic work. An agreement worked out in the framework of the Commission, which was signed by the Government of Economic and Social Reactivation known as the Korean and the Council of the Social Dialogue. Coreco, which approved this Economic and Social Recovery Plan, which foresees twenty transformative projects for economic recovery and social protection, with a short, medium and long term, with an estimated cost of €31,765_million, of which 2,760 will be invested in this 2020 exercise. Twenty large country projects are broken down into 191 structured actions and five priority axes. I'd like to stop at the detail, but if it looks like it, I'll just announce the headlines and, in any case, if you want more information on the reply return, I'll provide it. Economy for life, at an estimated cost of more than €5,000_million; digitisation, at an estimated cost of €1,000_million; the economic transition, at more than €16,000_million; the knowledge society, at an estimated cost of €5,700_million, and a five-year cross-cutting action, including measures on the gender perspective, internationalisation or financing. On the same 21st of July, coinciding with the approval of the Pla for the economic revival and social protection of the Government, the European Council agreed to finance the Marc multiannual 21-27 and the fund for recovery Next Generation Economic Union, the proposal is of 1,074_billion euros, and that of the fund for recovery, of 750.000_million euros. Of these, as you know, EUR 390,000_million will be in direct aid or grants, and EUR 360,000 in loans. Spain was awarded €140,000_million, some €73,000 in direct aid. According to the information available until now, scarce, the European recovery fund will be used for transformative projects for the economy. Let's hope they're able to take advantage of it. In any case, we are asking you – and you are also asking for the cooperation of the whole chamber – to arrive in Catalonia at 30,000_millions, which we have estimated are the resources that are being sought from us, and therefore all your cooperation, your support, your insistence on all institutions and governments where you have the presence and participation so that we can get the maximum number of European foundations to our country. We want to manage the resources of Catalonia, adapted to the productive and social structure of Catalonia, with social concertation, with the entities of the third sector. Simply, and saving all the distances, but it is what we claimed in the IESE act of thirteen years ago: manage from the proximity; as simple as that. And, therefore, the principle of subsidiarity is key in the coming months. I insist, we'd like to have more tools in our abast. In fact, we'd like to have all the tools, you know, all the resources we generate to invest them where we think they're most needed, but unfortunately, this isn't right now. According to the latest data published a few weeks ago, Catalonia is maintained with the third territory that more tax receipts per inhabitant contributes and the desire in resources obtained and fourteen if the price differential is taken into account. In relation to the territorial middle, Catalonia pays a 19,5_per_cent more and collects a 1,2_per_cent less. An asphyxiation that is usually unbearable for our citizens, but at these times it is no longer possible to go forward in this way. And I ask myself, "What are the opposition groups waiting for to claim this state money? Or, as it turns out, it may seem normal for us to contribute 3_percent of the tax receipts and follow the dissensions or the fourteen once we get the money back. Why haven't you made a proposal claiming this money? One thing that always, let's say, left me intrigued. Why come up for a moment when if you look good at this economic asphyxiation, then we'll have to think that you're in favour of keeping this infrastructure deficit, this economic deficit? You, like me, like the government, want the best for Catalonia: what is the best for Catalonia? These ciphers? That we follow the third territory that more tax tickets we deliver to the state and the fourteen in re'n? These are the best figures for Catalonia, honestly? Don't you have anything to say about this economic asphyxiation? So we simply do not want this to happen with European foundations. We don't want it, it's that this country can't afford it. Way to go! I can't afford it. So the economic asphyxiation that this country has experienced now with the pandemic cannot be allowed, and therefore either we have the European foundations that will or will not be able to get out of it. And the citizenry doesn't deserve it, the citizenry doesn't deserve to have political representatives who don't want the best for their citizens, for the 7_million_i_mig of citizens who live in Catalonia; our duty is to work for them, for all of them, because they have the best resources possible. And now it's not the case. Also, if you want, in the turn of the reply I can mention the work group that we have formed, the Catalonia 2022, which advanced at a good pace, that at the end of this month we will also have the first strategic lines. That, moreover, has been working with more than a hundred contributions that have been collected through the outcome of the call for papers that was launched in July, and, therefore, will tell us shortly – it is a working group that knows that it is working with total independence – which are the areas that they consider fit for the future of the country. It also seems to me very important that while we are in the day-to-day and day-to-day fighting there is a long-term vision of the post-Covid world, huh? From the new world that opens, from this new world that we want greener, fairer, more egalitarian, more freer. And this, that there are professionals of the country who, in a way, therefore, absolutely disinterested, are working for the country, I also want to thank them. In any case, these proposals will not only call into question this Government, but all the actors of the society, include other administrations, the private world, organised civil society or the same citizenry, which has nothing to do with this Government. I do not expect the proposals that come from this working group to coincide with the one-hundred-per-cent that this government defends; what I hope is that with all freedom we are proposed and as they see tomorrow's Catalonia. Therefore, a free, critical and independent contribution, which I am sure will be clear, ambitious and realistic. And I end up with a brief balance or, let's face it, some political lines. He gave it to the beginning of this legislature, marked by the will to build a country of freedom, culture and talent; a country in which his citizenship is proud to live and know that he has a state that rows in his favor, which is not the case... It is also a legislature marked by which we would name the perfect circle of repression. The legislature began with the government of President Rajoy preventing the election of a president of the Generality, of President Puigdemont, and can end with the dismissal of another with the government of President Sánchez and Vice President Iglesias. Here we are. We started in a certain way and we could end up exactly the same, posing and dismissing presidents of the Generality. I have explained to you all the work that this government has done and what we would like to continue doing; I have explained to you how we have fought tirelessly against the pandemic and its economic and social consequences, and how we now have the results we have. I'm sure we haven't done it right yet, I'm sure we've been wrong, but we're where we are and other communities are where we are. And I feel proud of the work done for all of this government's advisors. I'm sure there could always be different decisions, especially when you see things that have already happened and with perspective, but not at that time of brutal, bestial intensity, when you have to make the immediate decisions, which you have to move forward without knowing if you're going to stop it at 100 percent, but knowing that you have to make the decision, because it's your duty and it's your responsibility to make the decision at that time. And I think we've done it and we're doing everything – everything – that's in our hands. Precisely, the pandemic has brought us to a better government coordination. In view of the responsibility to manage this scene completely opposite, the Government has activated itself as never before to give response to the needs and emergencies that have arisen. We're in a very delicate moment. The return this very week of the 1st million of girls and girls to school, the recovery of full work activity and the mobility that all of this implies to us forces us to be more alert than ever to the possible rebounds and to a given second, that we all want to prevent or at least stop; that we do not pass the March-April of this year. I and all the government advisors and advisors dedicate all the hours of the day to the fight against the epidemic. I don't have any more... right now, no more than this one. It is my duty and my commitment as President of the Generality, I say only to the citizen of Catalonia, to his salvation and to his life, and to save the places of work and to generate all opportunities for entrepreneurs and for the self-employed. Exclusively. Many more things could be discussed today: the false proposals for a dialogue; the paranys of repression; the persecution seen by a majority of the population by the sun of defending a determined political project – today they are declaring friends; every day there is someone to judge, in this country, declaring –; the honorable, peaceful and democratic people who are still in prison, almost three years after – three years in prison – ; the people who cannot return home, but who are free to the rest of Europe, and who come to Northern Catalonia, but cannot cross the border – incredible –; the judiciary and investigations still open today to pursue a legal and democratic political project – all terrorism. I could talk about many more things today – many more things – but no. I've told you about the work that this government has done, what it would like to do, and the country projects we have on the way. I know that some people don't like it, that they'd rather have another type of speech today; but no, today we're talking about the management of this government, what we've done these years, the management we've done during the Covid. And we're proud of the work we've done. I know that tomorrow I would dedicate every minute of every hour to ensuring and continuing to work for the best you serve and the maximum prevention to stop the coronavirus; but I will not be able to do so, because I have to go to Madrid tomorrow. Because there is a state installed in revenge and that wants to disable a president, a president of the Generality, in order to defend freedom of expression. Not for a banner that said "Everything will go well, no, but for a banner that claimed the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles. That's exactly what he was saying. Why when it is said, "No, disqualify the president for a sign..., no, no, what did that sign say? Or is it that if you said something else, there would be a president of the Generality declaring tomorrow to the Supreme Court? Where? Which country in Europe, I mean, is there a president who is about to be disqualified for putting up a banner asking for freedom of speech? If they want to tell me some country in Europe what this has been about, then I'll appreciate it. A court, yes, but a court with a whole state behind it. With parties that wanted this to happen. With parties that have promoted that this happened. [[The President laughs.]] Instead of parliamentary and democratic fairplay, right? Vote, debate, who wins, who loses, right? That's it, isn't it? And the citizenry decides. No, there's a whole state dedicated to fighting an idea. And they left to support him. Parties that believe that putting up a banner is a motif of people to bring down a president of the Generality and cause a period of instability to an entire country. Now, in the middle of the pandemic? I don't know, it's here that you see that you have some priorities and that you have some others. These days we'll see who's really worried about things that interest people and who puts the machinery of a state at the service of the revenge set. We'll see about that. And as I said, and I repeat, my compromise is and will always serve my country until the last consequences and the last minute of my presidency. We will continue tirelessly to build a country of culture and talent for everyone. But above all, a free country. For Catalonia and for life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.3.0	Thank you. Before we get to the group interventions, we'll do a 20-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.4.0	Well, let's resume the session. After the intervention of the President of the Generality, we now proceed to the interventions of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, for a maximum of thirty minutes each, fifteen minutes for each parliamentary subgroup. In the first place, in the name of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word the deputy Carlos Carrizosa. [[Jorge Soler González intervenes without using the microphone. Widow's remorse.]] The truth is, they're ringing the bell and it's not supposed to be the president. He warned us that... [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.5.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the general policy debate is the first debate that takes place during the session and should serve so that all the groups that we represent to the Catalans as a whole can discuss and analyse what has happened over the past year without a prioriism, with generosity, with a high eye. But it should also help the Government to make self-criticism, make mistakes, look to the future, contrast proposals and drive the reforms that Catalans need. In this extensive speech that Mr Torra has given us, for unfortunately, there is no future; there has been like a collection of events that his advisers have passed to him, but unfortunately it is not going to be Mr Torra or his Government who lead the coming months of the Catalan economy, and of the Catalan economy and of Catalonia, and of society, and of health, and of the fight against the pandemic, and this is an anomaly caused uniquely and exclusively by the irresponsible attitude of Mr Torra, who, being president, has refused to obey the laws and thereby caused his disqualification and, therefore, that disqualification that came in the year 2019..., if I do not recall badly in December, 2019, in December, because now it is going to become effective soon and tomorrow you have a view. The balance sheet of the legislature is..., started in May 2018 and has been the second legislature with less legislative output in the last decade. You have promoted twenty-three laws and have only surpassed by two the negative mark that the government of Artur Mas had, from 2010 to 2012, being the worst of all the legislatures of the decade. Well, you're the second worst legislature of the decade in that respect, unproductive. And why? Well, you, although you have avoided today talking about the theme, the theme of the process, yes your speech has been absolutely impregnated, you have started with this, you have also ended up with the process and everything is impregnated that the faults are of another, Madrid is a black hole and there go all the resources of Catalans. And then, it's the others' fault, I have no fault, I do what I can. But the most evil, bad, bad, are those of Madrid. You have forgotten, in your enumeration, about political issues and political activity, that to a large extent it must be said that an administration as powerful as the Catalan one, therefore, depends on the impulse of its thousands of officials who, thank God, are functioning despite the fact that their political leaders are not always up to the task. Fortunately, officials maintain the vital pulse of the Catalan Administration. And as far as we are concerned, to evaluate this last year of the legislature in the general policy debate leads us to outline some..., the endless chain of nonsense that we have attended and that, let us say that this plenary, that it is possible that it is the last plenary that you attend, because it is like the final brooch, the colophony or the corollary of the old proverb of the one who goes badly, ends badly. And today, it probably ends its single in politics in Spain and Catalonia, and it is normal that it has been so if we begin to examine what has been the milestones of its presidency in the last year. I will refer, then, of course, to the fact that this lack of reconciliation between policies and management..., you have already said: "I have not come to manage an autonomy. And those words I think are going to chase him, because when Catalans needed management most, they have met a president who has prioritized everything else that was not management. Because you, already from day one, said you didn't come to manage. And we are concerned about what citizens who are going to think..., who have been without charging an ERT for months, who are afraid for their work, who are afraid for the health of their parents or their children, when they have seen what you have dedicated to in the past year. Look, let's do a little review in this debate. Immediately after last year's debate, the first milestone was the verdict of the trial, which condemned his colleagues, his predecessor. No, not to his predecessor, because he escaped justice, but to his vice president, Mr Junqueras, by sedition and embezzlement. Instead of closing the chapter on the failure of the process and closing wounds, and pacifying the spirits, you dedicated yourselves to encouraging the radicals to set the streets of Catalonia on fire. And the result of all this was that we had hundreds of wounded, damaged, camp battles, fear and depression among all the citizens of Catalonia. The images of chaos spread throughout the world and damaged our image. They drove companies away, investments, sown fear, demoralized us, and worried us, as a society. During 2019 and 2020, you have endeavoured to degrade our institutions, it was disqualified in December 19 and instead of preserving the institution and having the dignity to go away at that time, you stood in the way of the Presidency, also trying to intoxicate other powers, such as the legislative power and to ensure that the Presidency of Parliament does not abide by the deprivation of its minutes as a Member. You even pressed for..., another power of the state, from the executive power pressured the legislative power so that the order of the judiciary would not be complied with. I mean, you're shooting at all kinds of state powers, from the executive. As do those who do not understand democracy well from the executive powers, those who frame themselves and believe that they are the masters of the Administration. We have seen this past year the two parties of the Government, codazos, constant fights between partners for the date of the elections. And meanwhile, Catalonia paralyzed. You didn't put on the table any new projects, no new reforms, no future. Finally, what we have seen today also in this debate. There is no future for us with you at the head of the Government of the Generalitat. And when I say us, I mean Catalans, Catalan citizens. In March, the first wave of coronavirus arrived and, look, it cannot be said that, since the first opposition party, we were not careful to mitigate the effects of the pandemic as much as possible. We tried to collaborate in everything that had come upon us all, the Government of the Generalitat, the Government of Spain and the Government of all autonomy. Something absolutely unexpected and of great proportions. The pity is that you continued with the nationalist mantras, that you did not miss the opportunity to confront the Government of Spain, that you despised the help of the UME to disinfect the residences, that there was passivity to the drama of the autonomous and the SMEs that cast the blind, and came to light shameful realities like that TV3 enjoys more budget than the Department of Enterprise. Although all the economic forecasts were stunned by the coronavirus, Mr Aragonès refused to bring us budgets that were already born useless to fight the pandemic. But there were partisan reasons, he was going to go to elections and he wanted to go with his face washed off. In the end, those unserviceable budgets seem not even to be able to be replaced by others, because, among other things, given the purpose you have to paralyse the institutions after their disqualification, we will not be able to have budgets that are truly adequate to the pandemic crisis. But I'll talk about it later. You have thought more about the vows of your parish, so to speak, than about people, and you have used the pandemic to feed the process. There have been many statements around her: "In an independent Catalonia there would have been fewer deaths, from Mrs Budó ; "from Madrid to heaven, Mrs Ponsati with Mr Puigdemont's welcome ; then we saw the defensated Mr Buch warning against a conspiracy with the number of masks, because it coincided in the distribution that there seemed to be a magic number there or he believed he saw it, and his press chief – Mr Buch's – asked for armed uprising at the worst moments of the crisis. Now we're facing a second wave of coronavirus and you seem to be still wandering through those sidereal spaces of the process and you haven't just landed. You were absent at the conference of presidents, you gave regrettable bandages in the management for the return to work and the return to school, you said independence is urgent, you rejected the two-thousand trackers of the army, you gave wide sleeve to the ANC to summon fifty-thousand people during the Diada while the Catalans on foot we have to meet from ten to ten. Concentrations in which, by the way, images of the king were burned again, which you point out as a political objective to collect. And this..., you come today and make an assessment of your management in the pandemic and you tell us that you are very concerned and that your current priority is that, with the return to school, the children who are confined... – and that it is already beginning to exist and it is already beginning to happen and so it will happen throughout Spain – because the Government of Spain has not given us a solution. It's true. You are right to complain about how slow the Spanish Government is reacting, but that has other solutions. The solution is not that if I had decided... it is that we are in a decentralized state. We cannot cut people's work solutions either by municipalities or by autonomous communities, because that affects our entire economy and our economic and work system. It is therefore logical that, in a state of 47_million inhabitants, solutions be given uniformly so as not to affect the economy and the labour market and to make the entire productive process of the economies a chaos. But that doesn't matter to you, you do seek chaos and, therefore, I tell you that we do have a solution. You asked us: "What solution is there? Yes, we are for the paid permission to parents to take care of their children when they are sick and, if you want to be helpful, tell your group, that divided group you have in Madrid, to vote in favour of that Ciutadans proposal, which is the one we have proposed at the Bureau. And we can do it. Support you, do politics in the rest of Spain. I, to finish the chapter "Pandemic and pandemic management, because as I have told you, I have four times less time than you, I want to ensure to you, to your Government, to the government that results after your disqualification, that Citizens will not abandon their responsibilities; that Citizens will continue to reach out to all Catalans so that the solutions we give to the self-employed, to families, to businesses... are manageable solutions, and to overcome this pandemic as best as possible. That's how we did it with you and that's how we're going to keep doing it, and that's for us above the abysmal political discrepancies that separate us. Following the balance sheet of the legislature has been as are the legislatures of these governments since the beginning of the process. You have continued to use the public media to your liking: TV3 is a public television which is extraordinary in its quality and the quality of its professionals, but which unfortunately is commanded by political commissioners with ferrets and is a television in which neutrality shines by its absence. She has been convicted by the electoral board for lack of neutrality on several occasions; she has her director at the door of a trial; we have seen how politicians are interviewed in prime time on TV3, politicians they call "political prisoners on TV3, any presenter without..., disregarding the reality, but doing political militancy, and giving them a voice to legitimize what they did to the Catalans. If Spain were such an oppressive state, one of the main televisions in your state would not be interviewing these people, that I already guarantee, but it seems that reality to you..., are sometimes refractory to reality. The Catalans, too, have continued to suffer the scandals of corruption. That you referred to..., you referred to corruption and that in February 2020 they made a corruption plan. Look, I can give you such a long line of everything... from this last year of the legislature, scandals that have been erupting from corruption, all of which are practically associated with the former Convergence Party, which feeds its ranks. Gerard Figueras, Secretary of Sports, two charges; anti-corruption, in January... – that's in December 2019 –; January, anti-corruption asks to charge a dozen Democratic Convergence charges. In February Mossos and Guardia Civil recorded a television producer for the 3_per_cent of Convergence. In March, forty-nine people charged for misappropriation of funds in the parliament – some member of your group, who with that you keep quiet. In March the converging mayor of Torredembarra condemned for bribery, who unveiled the case 3_per_cent. In May the president of the Port of Barcelona, ex-mayor of Sant Cugat by Convergence, investigated by prosecutor's office by chanchullos with the municipal crane. In June Millet, Montull and Osàcar enter prison. In June Buch also appeared before the TSJ investigated for spending the money of all Catalans to put an escort to Puigdemont in Belgium. In July the National Court proposed to try the Pujol Ferrusola as a criminal organization. In July too Laura Borràs refuses to declare before the Supreme; Laura Borràs, that you so much support her and you are saying that it is that she is persecuted for being independent, and you have caught her with the ice cream cart of all emails to fix contracts with your friends. In July, the case of 3_per_cent. In August, anti-corruption..., well, here it's up to the CUP, in August anti-corruption investigates whether the CUP misappropriated funds. The prosecution continues to investigate the city of Sant Cugat... at last. Look, this is the environment: corruption. There is one very serious thing that must also come out in this debate, its intolerable pressure on an official of this Parliament. Su demand that it cease. That has no name and it also puts us, paints us in vivid colors how so many officials of the Generalitat must be going through it that they do not embrace their ideology, their militancy, their activism, there locked in the four walls with fellow watchers, put to their finger by you, with the forged walls of yellow ties... The truth is that it is an environment that some constitutionalists would wither like flowers to which they do not water if we had to live in that toxic and burdensome environment, I tell you. And this causes laughter, these threats to the officials and this toxic and vigilant environment of this militant and activist Generalitat, as it also transfers to the officials of the judiciary, to the judges. And today we have a tweet from the Lord who will perhaps cut me the word into zero comma... seconds, Mr Costa, who has put a tweet pointing to the judges who will judge you, putting their names and surnames: "These are the ones who judged our comrades! Tomorrow they will judge Mr. Torra! , points them out, he moves the tree and then others pick up the nuts. Then there is in this ideological climate of harassment of the dissident, there are always the exits of mother who are going to put themselves to aim directly at these people, as they did with magistrate Llarena, who went to paint his house, and who, by the way, were young citizens who went to paint the paintings they had put in his house in Catalonia. Look, this harassment, this ideological climate, comes to normal people who are in their jobs, in the out-of-towns working, you are recriminated for speaking Spanish in schools, in bars and in restaurants, foreign people are denounced by some and then they proceed to public lynchings in the networks against people who are working and who have also passed us here, in the Parliament, in this ideological climate hostile to the dissident that you have paid. And you... how do you do that? How is that hostile ideological climate created? For it is created with a vice-president of the Parliament who puts a tweet explicitly pointing to the judges as if they were guilty of something; it is created by applauding the terrorists from the seats, those who are arrested, accused of terrorism; it is created by taking pictures of people who are terrorists or extremists and throwing them away; this climate of harassment is created by giving wings to the violent or those who advocate violence and pointing to the opponents from the institutions. Look, Mr. Torra, I said yesterday... no, my party said yesterday that we were not going to allow Catalonia to be paralyzed at its will, that its political road map would include the paralysis of our institutions. We're not going to allow it. We will do what we have to do politically and legally as well. We'll use the tools we have to use. Well, that's why this gentleman is in this picture. [[the orator shows a photograph to the camera]] – I know you don't like the photos, but look... – This gentleman, Fredi Bentanachs, threatened me yesterday on Twitter; the founder of Terra Lliure, of the terrorist group Terra Lliure threatened me yesterday on Twitter. Here's Carles Sastre, Mr. Bultó's killer. In this photo they have the terrorist founder of Terra Lliure and the gentleman who murdered an entrepreneur with a lapa bomb. Here, by the way, is Mr. Costa, behind, very smiling; you are; there is Mr. Cultural Ómnium... Finally, they are all with these people that when the leader of the opposition says that he will not admit a certain political line of the president of the Generalitat..., the gentleman who is in the photo, founder of a terrorist group, and threatens the leader of the opposition. I'm not going to ask you to condemn these facts, Mr. Torra, it's not..., I'm not going to ask you because when you're in a photo with these people, when you applaud from the seat people who have allegedly chosen violent ways and then I'm pointed out to oppose me to their policies and designs, as head of the opposition, representing a lot of Catalans who don't think like you, because then we have a problem in Catalonia. And the problem is not that you are disqualified because you choose to violate the law; the problem is that there is an ideological climate of persecution of the dissident, and that you support and encourage him, as Mr Costa pointed out to the judges. Another example today. Look, let's go back to your management data, health data. Very quickly, health, social spending, housing, dependency, GDP, unemployment and drop in tourism. In all these parameters we have had bad results, many times below the Spanish average in social spending. Catalonia has cut social spending by 8.8_per_cent during the process while other autonomys increased it. Can anyone think that the embassies, the lobbies, all that you have set up with the process and all the people hanging from the process and the chiringuites that you set up are free? The process has been the big scam for all Catalans and we are, as I say, those who have cut the most in social spending while, yes, we are opening embassies, which today also came out, embassies in Peru, Australia and Japan. This... Housing: a 15_per_cent of housing has to have a social use according to the law 18 of 2007, but currently we do not reach 2_per_cent. We have 2_per_cent and the law says we have to have 15. What's your government doing? In the end, it votes populist laws limiting the price of rents, when in reality the way in which the European countries have tried to influence the price of rents is to have a sufficient stock of public-use dwellings, which does reduce prices. Does the Statutory Guarantee Board say it's illegal? It doesn't matter, you pull it forward because here it's about looking for the competition conflict, looking for what and doing populism, and telling people to fix things when, in fact, the problems are broken down and extended: the worst lists in dependence; Catalan GDP falls by 20.1 a year in this second quarter and worsens the figures of the 2008 crisis, while, in the whole state, the fall is 18.5, a point and a half lower than that in Catalonia, which falls more; unemployment, it's the autonomous community that has increased the most unemployment compared to the previous quarter; tourism as well, really difficult, bad numbers. The pandemic is responsible for the setbacks we have suffered in unemployment, in the fall of tourism, in housing, in dependence, but its management has not helped anything to improve the, and its management has caused us in Catalonia to have worse numbers than in other autonomous communities. Look, Mr. Torra, most Catalans have a very different idea from Catalonia to yours. You spoke here about your idea of a country, or mentioned a term similar to that of the idea of a country. We have another idea, indeed, of Catalonia. For us, real Catalonia is a much more mixed, plural Catalonia, with different identities, with shared identities, that people feel at the same time Spanish and Catalan, and also European, and to a greater or lesser extent, and that what they want is not to be entangled in supposedly national objectives, but in their families, in their health, in their prosperity, in being able to live a full cultural life, wanting your land and being enchanted and proud of being Catalan, as has always happened in Catalonia. In Catalonia, we have always been proud to be Catalans and, internally, Catalans were fine and out we were seen with admiration. Now that pride I think is depression and sadness. Half of Catalonia does not understand the other half; we do not understand what is happening. You are forcing the machine and taking people out of a normal context of peaceful coexistence. Mine, the idea of Catalonia, is a Catalonia for all; yours is the Catalonia of the inverted, of those who do not move, of those who pass over the feelings and identities of the other half. That's the Catalonia you want. You rightly wrote those texts that lamented in your writings the immigration alluvition that ultimately slid the foundations of that mythical Catalonia, which for you was the Catalonia of your parents and grandparents, but which is not the Catalonia that we all feel and that we all want. Look, we believe that we already need to make a reset, a new era in Catalan politics. We want all citizens to be respected equally, regardless of the language they speak and to whom they vote. We came to the Catalan policy to fight corruption, to regenerate political life, to modernize the idea of Catalonia by fighting that identity and nineteenth-century idea that Jordi Pujol implanted while filling his pockets and those of his whole family. We came to that Catalonia where we could all be comfortable. We already govern in other communities and want to govern also in Catalonia, and change from top to bottom the social parameters that you have imposed, the parameters of perception of the collectivities that you have imposed on us. Look, we, during this pandemic, had some good experiences, such as the perception that the Consellaria d'Empresa was working, and then we found that you prioritized and purged the councillor of that consellaria precisely for political interests. If we ruled, we'd keep the process folder, send it to the history bin. That's right. And we'd get the folder out of the families and the self-employed who don't make it to the end of the month. We do want to manage this autonomy and, therefore, we will present some measures in the motions for resolutions, which my colleague Lorraine Roldán will specify tomorrow. It is time to move from the « Government of embolism to the « Effective Government. A cross-cutting government with people of different political signs, but with the same objective: rebuild Catalonia. In the midst of the pandemic, we will not tolerate us being blocked for months because that suits the road map of you and Mr Puigdemont. I announce to you that, from Citizens, we will not only present in the debate an initiative to commit ourselves to unlocking – not only that, we will – but we will explore formulas with the rest of the opposition so that you do not get away with it. You, and Mr. Puigdemont, fugitive from justice. We have to get Catalonia going. It cannot be that we are unable to approve budgets because we do not have a President of the Generalitat. We will talk to the rest of the parliamentary groups. You will not succeed in blocking Catalonia, we will not tolerate the continued impoverishment of Catalonia, we will not allow our institutions to continue to degrade, we will not allow you to kidnap the future of all Catalans, we will not allow you to take hostage to your delusions. We are going to recover Catalonia because it is possible, and because Catalan citizens deserve it. Mr. Torra, goodbye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.6.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very honorable President of the Generality... I have to tell you, first of all, that our group did not believe that the debate on the general political orientation of the government would be held in guenny because you had already expressed, already on the 29th of January, that you felt personally disqualified, little defended when you lost the condition of deputy, that the government was divided and that the legislature was exhausted. For these reasons, you yourself are committed to saying when the elections were scheduled once Parliament approved the assumptions, which were approved on April 24. We still don't know this election date, but we do know that on 12 July the Basque Country and Galicia were elected and today they already have our governments. Therefore, it was difficult to think that a legislature considered for the same president as exhausted on the 29th generation celebrated a debate on the general political orientation in September. Nor did we expect a remodeling of the government and a remodeling that, in our opinion, is not intended to improve management capacity. And I have to tell you, it is not just our opinion; artists of sovereignist orientation have said, for example, that this has been, and I quote, "a regrettable crisis. Or have they called the change of government a little patriotic, to quote from others, and I quote people who are not exactly the socialist herb. But, finally, we'll do the government change debate when it comes to it. Now what's important is to balance a year and point out the prospects for the proper year, even though it's not likely that a new general policy debate will take place next year, it's inevitable to make a balance of the legislature. Mr. Batet, who is very optimistic, says: "Who knows. But in any case, I'll do our balance. It is a poor balance, of inefficiencies, of mismanagement, of division, of insufficient institutional cooperation and of no concrete advantage. And, if I may, today, not to know, we don't even know on behalf of whom he speaks to us when he talks about the future, because it is public to us that there is no agreement among the governing partners as to when the elections are to be held. So, mass unknowns. And certainly, and you're right when you say that the pandemic has completely distorted our legislature and that we need to focus our priorities, but I also need to tell you in this land – all the while maintaining the support that, as you know, has the effects of the fight against the pandemic – that contrasted a lot of the lessons that you wanted to give when there was a state of active alarm, that effectiveness afterwards. We understand that you didn't take enough time to prepare the descalation and the path to this new normality. And I allow'muna_sola' given, which I believe is incontrovertible and which cannot be attributed to Madrid or to any phenomenon of malignant type. You preside over the only government in the world that has allowed itself to remain vacant forty-six days after the Secretary of Public Health in the midst of the pandemic. On the other hand, I have to tell you that the incorporation of the new secretary of Public Health we believe has greatly improved the management of the pandemic, but we will never know what has happened if we have named it forty-six days before. You, in your investment debate, spoke of four axes, four priorities: a cohesive country; a secure, responsible and sustainable economy; a democratic, free and fair society; and a Catalonia open to the world. I honestly believe that in these four axes it can be said that today we are better than May 14, 2018, and not alone because of the pandemic. You have followed the line, and you have consistently said, a logic of confrontation, which has brought us more division as a society, more loss of economic opportunities, time and energy, and weakened our social policies causing general political disorientation. And the division of the government, which you already recognized and affirmed with roundness and solemnity the 29th generation, has done nothing more than increase. In Catalonia, which is open to the world that promises itself, a political dynamic has followed which, among other things, has caused no member of the government or you as president to see any member of the European Commission. And it is that, President, believe us, confrontation is not intelligent, it is a mistake, and it is turned against the interests of Catalans. The cohesive country and the secure, responsible and sustainable economy required, in our view, broad political agreements, and their government, in this land, has not even been set up. You told us – you told us about it a long time ago and you said it again today – about a pact for salvation, but you haven't invited us to talk about it yet. But I told you, we're totally ready. We are in favour of coming to this pact and doing it as best we can. There is also talk of pacts for economic recovery and social reconstruction, but neither has the government that you preside over sought any consensus with the opposition, nor just the meetings of the dialogue space that urged this Parliament to continue; they have never, ever, ever been a priority for you. And on the democratic reinforcement, I must remind you that the high priority was the elaboration of a draft Constitution, which we did not know any more. The problem, in general, not only of your government, but of all, are the intrinsic difficulties that we have to make self-criticism. But it is that you persist in a line that we understand deeply wrong, which is that of confrontation, to say that you will again provoke a shock with the State. They continue to scalding emotions, contrasting identities, dividing Catalan society by half, and by the way, from our point of view, they have lost a lot of energy and opportunities. You have been eager to generate expectations, but also disappointments and disappointments. The processism, and I say it with respect for everyone, but the processism has been a great lie that culminated with a great failure and, therefore, it would be wise to change direction. You, on the other hand, in Prada de Conflent, the past summer said, "Strategy is confrontation. And they've been doing this, not getting a win, not a win. And with an exorbitant cost in a lot of land. With the motivation of the fusion project between CaixaBank and Bankia, responsible for their government deien: « The new one should be installed in Barcelona. But I ask them, what is it that they don't remember why CaixaBank, the Bank of Sabadell and thousands of people changed their socials? And the balance that was presented to us today, President, and that we have followed carefully and that is why we have asked for a deadline, in order to be able to incorporate some elements that allow the debate, contrasts often with reality. You have spoken to us about working with the local world, but what we feel is the sight of many congregations saying that this working is very lacking. We talk about territorial rebalancing and we like it and we share it; but we listen to the view of the rural country, which tells us that it has left and less. And even sometimes encounters that we have also participated in. The different rebuttal that the Agency of Nature has had in the rural world, surely caused not so much by the concrete content of the law, as I suppose, but by this sense of abandonment. You talk to us about optical fiber, but we have schools without optical fiber. You said to us today: "We made a PUOSC of 250_million euros, but forgot that the year 2010 was 648. He talks to us about the debts of the State, but he does not tell us what has been lost from the State; nor the 45_milions_i_mig of the extraordinary social fund; the 3_milions of scholarships; the 4_milions_i_mig of the Proa programme for the schools; 205,1_milions for health expenditure; 300_milions for urgent actions – 51_milions of these, because they were for all communities, have come to Catalonia –; a delivery to 521_milions of euros; the allocation of 550_milions to the funding side; 819_milions to the names of the non-FLA name; 7_milions to the execution of the agricultural programmes and to the branches; the assignment of 550_milions to the correspondents of the total programs; the emails of the emails of the non-FLA address; 7_milions of the emails of the emails of the emails of the emails of the emails; the emails of the emails of the emails of the emails; And you're still talking about finance, and you're complaining about autonomous finance, in general, and the doubts you have about the part of the European funds that end up coming to Catalonia. And here I have to say 'there, President: is that those who have not gone to negotiate- have been you. If you have decided not to attend a meeting of the Conference of Presidents, if you have refused to become an active part of the discussions of the Tax and Finance Policy Council. And, look, I have to say: the last financing agreement is from the year 2009– 2014 had to be renewed, but it was not done. The year 2009 there was a government of the left with a socialist president. So we have the conviction that, as independence has ceased to have this objective in – pardon the expression – the benefits of the "great leap forward, until we again have a president of the Generality who is not trapped in the confrontation we will not have a new financing for Catalonia, and therefore the Catalans will continue, and justly, complaining. In your investment speech, you said: "Cohesion of the country, development of a secure, responsible, sustainable economy. Well, let's look at what happened to all this. Deia: « Economic progress. How do we figure it out? With the social adventure that is produced. Listen to me, President, today we have the guaranteed income of citizenship, but we are followed by the promoters who only one of every four people who have the right to perceive it actually realize it. Therefore, there is a very great contrast between what you present us as great breakthroughs and great results with reality. He said: "The effort we are making for salvation. And actually. But you go to a primary care center, you go to a hospital, and it is found that the staff are saying: "We do not consider ourselves well treated from the point of view of work, professional and wage. Of all the complaints that we have fewer families in a vulnerable situation, that we have fewer families in a poor situation, but we believe, sincerely, and we want to say in always related and respectful terms, that nothing has been done as much as possible or done quite well at what has been done. In social matters, listen to me, you have compromised many things, some of them that were not strictly, so to speak, money. The law of personal autonomy that had to be done, has not been done; the normal deployment of the advanced teleassistance service, has not been done; the law of the rights and opportunities of childhood and adolescence, has not been done; the promotion of associationism, neither; the law of the great people, neither; the new plate of support to the third sector, neither; the new model of the special centers of work, Catalan Agency of Social Protection. And today you have taken many laws that have been done, but you have also told us the number of decrees you have, and so when we talk about democratic quality we will have to recognize all the folds that we have to legislate through the decree you have less democratic quality that we have to legislate through the ordinary legislative procedure. We believe that in this mandate there has been no new proposal, performance or service that has substantially improved the life of a large part of Catalans and Catalans: the lists of hope continue to grow, we have high rates of severe poverty, we continue to feel the community autonomously with less social reversal of the last two years and the one that is most treacherous in reversing the shortcuts; the Idecat in the spheres: 21.3_percent of Catalans at risk of poverty, and more than half of Catalans show certain or much difficulty in arriving at the end of the month. The FOESSA report tells us that while Spain's population in a situation of severe social exclusion before the Covid was reduced, Catalonia was growing. And, of course, the pandemic did nothing more than hurt some of the dynamics they had, we'd say, older shoots. We need this compromise for the weakest sectors of our society. You've also spoken to us... a little bit, however, about some policies that have to do specifically with women. We are still missing those meetings to deploy the Pact against Masclist Violence that Parliament approved. And, therefore, we believe that we must still do much in this land. President, social spending in Catalonia fell in the last few years by 8.8_per_cent, per capita spending, while the Spanish average increased. It's, uh, shocking, and from our very negative point of view. And here we find data of all scale, given by the ministry, but also by the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. Interestingly, we share, we would say, ranquing, or this reduction, with..., the Community of Madrid. You're afraid of salvation. You said that, we have tried to accompany as much as we could and knew, because, indeed, this is a reptile of a country in which there must be no distinction or no feverishness or lack of solidarity. Now, the pandemic isn't over. Certainly, we have better figures than we have for a while, and we must not rejoice – but, as you say, this is not comforted –; better, much better than other communities, but this can only bring down our guard more quickly than anything else. Now, our country's health challenges to the pandemic are still in force, because unfortunately the rest of the disease has not remained confined or quarantined. And, therefore, we must make an additional effort. The cry again... – or, better said, I do it backwards – we put ourselves at his disposal again. I know that the coming week is probably going to give concrete expression to the proposal of the group that you decided to form. So, I'm saying, without knowing or much less, the details, but knowing what was the objective that led this group, we want to participate from the zero minute in the achievement of this salvation pact. You're afraid of education. Look, we don't think the course leader has prepared well, but we don't want to, because it's not good and it wouldn't be fair, a message that could discourage the country. And, therefore, we add to his cry of open schools, secure schools, living schools. And all the support to the educational community for a very important challenge. And you said it and you didn't say it, maybe, that we all say it so much, but that's it: you'll get infected, you'll have to take action, that some of them can be very difficult. We want to stand next to the government to help. Now, let's make it clear, the government has set, for example, as a ratio per class of twenty students and, unfortunately, the same education counselor as you said, there are 30_percent of Catalan schools in which this will not be so; they will be, and is not strange, the schools of the most densely populated areas. And, as we have a special concern, too, for the inclusive character of the school and for the schools that meet students with special needs, so we also want to highlight this need. And so we will do in the motions for resolutions. To tell you, President... you were talking about the economy ahead, responsible and sustainable. We don't think they've taken advantage of the good years and now we're having trouble adding to the pandemic. We've lost the Spanish economic leadership. And it's true, at these moments we're growing less than average. But Valence is growing more. Therefore, our problem, whether it is possible to say so, or the comparison that we usually establish, is not Madrid, or is not just Madrid, but logically everyone is spreading. And, from our point of view, the vision for the reactivation that they are having and practicing other governments is more powerful and effective than ours. We've been slowing down, we're devoting little resources to universities. The 70_per_cent of research is generated by universities. But we have today the same research assumption we had in 2010. We think we're losing competitiveness. And if you look at the ranks of European regions or innovation clusters, we're down. In the European regions we were 114; now we are 140. And you in your investiture speech, which is logical, raised a lot of ambition. Deia and I quote it literally: « Catalonia will lead from the south of Europe the fourth industrial revolution, industry 4.0. We don't take it as a concrete compromise, but as a spirit, as an ambition. President, we need to "squeeze a lot more if we want to get this ambition to be a reality, because we're too far away from it. For example, today we dedicate, dedicates the Generalitat, a 25_per_cent less in infrastructure than the year 2010. And, moreover, this year we are certainly still more punished, because the absence of general assumptions of the State, in which there were some relevancy of infrastructure for Catalonia, was voted against. Some questions that concern us. Renewable energy production; we're also on the cua. We are a dependent country, from the point of view of energy, and, from our point of view, not enough to boost renewable energies. Only a 21_percent of the energies we consume have a renewable origin. The truth is that political instability... – and we don't just say so, the London School of Economics has been a public study in this sense –, instability, perception, we would say, of uncertainness, if I may say so, has not benefited our economic prospects. Here we speak sometimes of the thousands of entrepreneurs – I have pointed out that there are 5,600 people and that they have moved their social home out of Catalonia, the flight of funds that has then produced... But it is that, President, we are not realizing that ever since the government has been doing anything to capture that logic that I think we all agree was very negative. So many things... I won't have as much time as you. Culture............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We agree. It is the center of civilization; it cannot speak of civilization without culture. But, listen to me, it's the instability in the Department of Culture, even this later remodeling that can be short-lived, so..., five advisors in four years. And you said, and I can also take the word: "We're worried about the català. We too, but we will never translate concern for the promotion of our language with an attempt to subordinate the Spanish language. The language scheme in Catalonia is not a zero-sum game; it is not that in order to advance the català it has to go back to the castle. And, surely, this is a different perspective from one another. But, therefore, he wanted to point out: I am counting on us to promote the language, but they will find us against any attempt to make the castle appear as a language of the order. We don't think we have to move on to a situation where the castle is served only in intimacy, as the new Councillor of Culture said. We can't break society. And that tells someone that, for example, in this Parliament only speaks in Catalan. But it is precisely the love for the català that makes us also estimate the other languages, estimate the castle, which cannot be compared to the discursive effects of the Swahili. The castle is also official language in Catalonia, it is the language of many and many Catalans and we must not go through the head, to anyone, who has to give up because we feel less concerned about the Catalan language. We believe, President, that the continuity of his Government is a mistake for his country. We believe Catalonia is a great country, it can be even better, but it needs a good government, and now not tea. And it does us the effect that many of the decisions that you take have more to do with party figures than with the defense of the interest of the citizenry. I think the management of these two years confirms it. You have a look from a small country and not from a decent country. And to insist on objects that break society proves it. And, therefore, to us, and more at this time that we all use the expression "with this pandemic, with this problem so thick that we have to, we cannot deviate or pay attention to other questions, so we do not seem to be able to do so by your government. We believe that there have been years lost, public servants at the border, poor management, no political planning, no initiative, no clear leadership. Maybe that wasn't your government's priorities, or, if they were, they didn't fall apart. And Catalonia needs a good government. And that means a government with a high management capacity – it seems to us that its is not – and with a strong will for consensus and cooperation – and it does the effect that its government does not have it. The problems actually got worse with the pandemic, but they were already here. His statement said: "I feel disauthorized, I have a divided government, the legislature is exhausted from the 29th generation, before the pandemic. So, you – and that's an argument you can support – say, "Home, now, with the pandemic, we need to focus on this and, therefore, we need to make a certain reset. This has not been done by other communities; it has probably been estimated that they are looking for higher, stronger, and more consistent, targets at this time. You have talked about some problems that we totally share, the problems of certain companies... The Penedès concerns us, and very much, because it is true that Nissan is a much larger company, but in terms of the territorial impact of the situation at these combined moments, Bosch and Saint-Gobain, therefore, has an impact on the Penedès very large. Count on us, president, too. If in some things we can help, I'm sure that some can do, for the effort of reindustrialisation, for the effort of fixing to the territories enterprises and places of work. We believe that... in fact, things have not gone well in this mandate. There is one element that will be the object of a motion for a resolution that we will present to you..., and it is the parliamentary mandates that are not complete. President, there is much Parliament's agreement that your government does not deploy, and in this legislature until we have found one thing a little strange that are parliamentary mandates that have not just been published because it turns out that they do not conform to the law. And we have seen one thing that we have been very concerned about, which is that you, as President of the Generality, are addressing the President of the Parliament to tell him that a senior official of this house has to cease. Separation of powers... Normally, when we talk about separation of powers – and then I'll talk about it – we talk about it between the executive and the judiciary..., but also between the executive and the legislature, president. And we have always said this: from disobedience, from the law's disenfranchisement or from the lack of attention to the criteria of the letters or the Council of State Guarantees, Catalonia's interest is not well served. You pretended to ignore the state of law, you wanted to violate the law, and you thus degraded the functioning of the institutions, without anyone saying anything, not one of those actions that we could qualify as the way I did it, you assumed no benefit to the country. Therefore, it is a reflection that I again pose on the table. It cannot act with irresponsibility, because neither the country nor the self-government gets any gain. Therefore, social and economic declines, institutional and political degradation: this is how we summarize their mandate. Probably someone who is listening to us will say: "Home, it's not all as bright as the president has presented it, nor is it all, we would say, as black or as obscure as the heads of the opposition, the leaders of the parliamentary opposition groups. Probably. But, presiding, at these moments, precisely because of the gravity of the situation that we are going through, being aware of the shortcomings and being able to react before the shortcomings, and being able to address the conjunct of the chamber to draw wide consensus, it is essential, and we do not see them in this weaving. This crisis requires a lot of collaboration between governments. I call them to try, indeed, the necessary political dialogue and the necessary intergovernmental dialogue; otherwise, we will not get out of it. We have everything to get out - but I will also say to them: you, when you talk about the country, sometimes you do it consciously, sometimes unconsciously and you just leave a part out. You said it yourself: "No, it's that if you don't defend what we defend, we have to believe that you don't think you're good for Catalonia. I ask you, President, that we do not make inferencies of this nature. In Catalonia there are many political projects, there are many sensitivities, and so Catalanist is the one who thinks that only independence will provide the progress, like the one who thinks that a better federation with the people of Spain is the one that will provide the most progress. If we don't understand that only from a certain empathy or as a minimum respect between those of us who occupy escons in this chamber, because that's how the Catalans decided, we won't get out of it. And I am convinced that Catalans want a better Catalonia. But we do, modestly, from our group: a better Catalonia needs a better government. Because the only way, from our point of view, respecting the other approaches, for economic recovery and social reconstruction is that of the unit. And you, with the confrontation, are in a bad way. I would allow me, President, to ask you, and I already know that there is no right, or no..., let's say it backwards, you have no obligation to follow what I say: I would not further extend the life of this government. A government that deserved, for its part, this criteria of division and exhaustion of the legislature... is not worth the more. And that, somehow, the Catalans are the ones who tell us how they want us to start a new stage. We, in the second part of the debate, will put forward many proposals for a resolution, as many have come, in which we have our priorities. But we do a very critical balance of his management. Where Catalanism had put unity, excellence and progress there..., you spoke before the Commonwealth... – ai, the Commonwealth! You've set up division, incompetence and retreat. That didn't go well. So, man, let's all try to open a new stage. And you finally made some reference... and I must say, thank you, President, for not turning this debate into something else. You didn't, and from this point of view I want to thank him for his intervention. But it is true that in the end he made some reference, inevitable, to the fact that tomorrow is produced. The ones that follow. I don't like to give for absolutely nothing, because this is also a show of respect. I just want to say two things: President, no one is above the law. Respecting the rule of law and the separation of powers also implies complying with judicial resolutions, whether or not they are acceptable. We believe that it is better for Catalonia to be the President of the Generality who calls the elections, that there are no undue effects on the decisions of other institutions that do so. And, therefore, I repeat, I ask you to finish this legislature with as much dignity as possible. That you are consistent with what gave us the 29th generation, and that ended this debate about the – let me joke – « general political disorientation of the government, you call elections and follow the Catalans who mark the way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.8.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.9.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to all and to all. We are faced with a new debate on general policy and we are faced with the truth, in a very complicated situation, a very difficult situation, especially for the working classes, for the middle classes of our country, with various crises that are collapsing, with a great disbelief and every major time of politics, with some, too, trying to make the institutions not serve, and with an extreme right every time stronger and more organized. And now you have come here, President, and the truth is that you have surprised us, because you have made a speech as if nothing, as if we had come from a legislature, therefore, that you have managed in a normal way, as if you have not followed a legislature full of symbols, of empty rhetoric, of governance of the government. And we have to tell you that, despite today's speech, that at some points we can agree, so we consider that your speech is late and poorly, as your government is always arriving during these two years and rest. At last, your government partner, Esquerra Republicana, is calling for elections and, at last, also your government partner, Esquerra Republicana, is insinuating or saying directly that you want to boycott the dialog table. So, as my bird used to say, a flower is not summery. We have the feeling that his speech today has been a vision and that's why I have to insist on everything we've come up with during these weeks and months, and it's not time for gestures or confrontations, whether they're smart or not, or between us or with the central government. And we don't think it's the time for Trons to play games with each other, but to guarantee a decent life for everyone, think what you think, speak the language you speak and feel how you feel. This consists of a people's sun, as Benet said, putting people and common causes before what separates them. And in our country the common causes are many, and more in a situation as complicated as we're patenting. A situation that, if we make a laugh, affects all sectors. The other day he could talk to professionals about the primary care that they sent us their anguish for the situation in which they find themselves. After months of pandemic, in which they have given the best of themselves, up to the point of reaching exhaustion – there really are a lot of people who are exhausted – so they are not strengthening the teams of primary care centers, they are not replacing the cuts or the holidays while they have been taking care of them for all these months, despite the difficulties, so the public institutions have not been costing them, and now they are found to be less and more numerous. They are taking control of the residencies, they are paying attention to the acute pathologies that cannot be delayed and the chronic patients who are also out of control, they make the PCRs of the close contacts of people with symptoms, they also go to the homes of those patients who are not able to move, they carry the phone schedules of the consultations Covid, they also phone schedules for the results of PCRs and they could follow and follow. Therefore, the tasks are many and are not reinforcing the seedlings nor replacing the basses or the holidays. And they say to us: "We have a lot of vocation, but we can't do miracles. When will more resources be available for public sanitation? When is it going to stop favoring private sanitation in our country? I don't ask anything, or practically anything, about this legislature anymore, but I do think it's important that we send a message to all the citizens who are aware that there is an alternative, there is an alternative. Catalonia can be at the level of European countries in financing public sanitation. We can get to 7_per_cent that we are told by the experts and experts we need. We must be prestigious among our professionals and, of course, we must also ban for law that there are details. But if we keep looking at the picture, there's no sector that's better. The farmers of Penedès, the people of the wine sector are collecting thirty cents per kilo of root. I don't know if they know what that means, but that means that this activity is directly becoming unsustainable. They explained to us that between the Covid, between the middle run and with this price that is sometimes inferior to other countries like Italy, therefore, despair is more. It is a sector that is ruining itself, and there should be a public leadership to form a table in a transparent way – and here is the key: in a transparent way – where there is a price just to the products of the camp, because, if not, what we find is that farmers are charging a price that is lower than the cost of production. So, public leadership to get this price that they don't have right now and that's ruining our camp. And there on the side, in the Penedès also, in the Arboç, so – it has already been mentioned before – are the 122 workers and workers of Saint-Gobain Glass, who have to lose their jobs, and of them many families also of our country. We're talking about one of the top duty stations in Catalonia, and the generality has to have an active role to play in securing these jobs, because we're not just talking about these 122 people, but we're talking about the whole region's economic future, which, as I said, is in a very complicated economic situation. But it's that, unfortunately, too, I have to add to this industrial wisdom, so the announcement was made a week ago by the German Bosch group, which wants to shut down the Castellet and Gornal plant and leave three hundred more workers on the road. And, of course, here the new company advisor, therefore, did not have anything better to say that the company seems to already have an agreement with the workers for the sealing of this plant, and the workers tell us that she is lied to, that there is no agreement with the workers for this sealing. We are talking about some workers, some workers, who arrive at three-hundred, who have been making sacrifices lowering themselves on holiday days, seeing how they kept production, and that, in addition, the company has not given them a plan of future viability. Therefore, I think it would be good for the new advisor, therefore, to rectify, to lay at the side of the workers and the workers and to work actively to put up with this closure, because, moreover, there are no numbers in a full of excellence; we are talking about people with names, surnames, their families, and also the whole economic sector that surrounds them. Therefore, here we have one more drop that adds to the industrial dismantling that patim. Let's talk about Nissan, let's talk about Continental, Huayi, Marelli and General Cable, TE Connectivity, now I have quoted Saint-Gobain Glass, I have also mentioned Bosch and we are watching this runaway from the multinationals, which many times have collected and rejected public finance without seeing a clear country strategy in short and medium term. It's true that when a conflict goes up, the Generalitat goes up and it's true that it participates in it. But how do you participate in it? They can't go on a case-by-case basis, they can't go on a business-by-business basis. We need a global plan, we need a country strategy, because if what we want is to attract talent, innovation, research and economic transition and guarantee quality places, what we need is a strategy, a planning and a forecast, in a table where all the sectors are affected: the economics, the search and also the workers. As I say, the country needs a strategy. You, President, have said that you are very concerned about the situation you are giving yourself, that you have said that you must do everything possible, but it is also true that we hear too many statements from your advisors, both from Treball and from Enterprise, saying that what it is to minimize the impact of the tanks. I don't think it's about minimizing the impact of the locks, but it's about avoiding and shutting down this runaway from the companies we're patenting. When we talk about industry, I think there is a topic that also needs to come out of the table, not just industry, but here too, which is the topic of the climate crisis. They were talking a lot about climate emergency before the pandemic, but I have the feeling that now it's less. And I think he should talk more about it right now. The young people have mobilized, today we know that they will also be at the door of Parliament demanding a climate convention, they are an example for the country and also for the world, and here we should be aggrandizing their strength, we should be listening to them and we should be making them happen. The fires of California and Galicia, which are very far away, but now we see that it is a little more than that, showing us that climate is not a matter of debate, it is a reality. And I also think we need to see this as an opportunity to boost our economy and create quality jobs. And if we don't, then we won't just lose industrial opportunities, but also the respiratory diseases, the heartaches that we have and that our infants have will go further; the heat waves will each time be more frequent and more unbearable; destroying biodiversity will also affect that we have more pandemics and that, therefore, the Covid will not be later, and we will also see how the poor and also the migrations for climate reasons grow. I think it's not just our kids and our girls who will see it, but we're starting to feel it right now. Beyond the great industries that Catalonia has, I don't think we can let go of the fact that we are a country of peppers, small and medium-sized enterprises, of autonomies, of family enterprises, which we also know are with water in the col. About 550 have closed their blinds in the last few months, they have not been able to withstand the confinement we have experienced, and, in fact, we are the territory of the State that accumulates the most circling of peppers. And I think here, too, the Generalitat, so, it's... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... We see that the aid that comes is insufficient and that there is no clear country strategy to strengthen and support the peppers. There's another sector... There's not many, but I think it's also very important to talk about him – President, you also talked about it: it's the tourism sector. He's one of the most affected during this summer, and he doesn't even know when he's gonna start seeing the light. I was reunited with the representatives of the tourism sector workers of the Gironine regions and asked for a national tourism pact; a national tourism pact that must be more sustainable and where, therefore, on the one hand, workers and workers, on the other, the administrations and also the entrepreneurs. And this conversation is not there. We have places, municipalities like Lloret, where tourism represents, therefore, 20_percent of GDP and more generates 70_percent of wealth and occupation. These months have been devastating, they have been demolishing, and, if they were to leave the skin before they could pay for the logger, so that they could arrive at the end of the month, with the situation that we have right now we have thousands of people who are entering the spiral of the poor and who are at risk of social exclusion. So we're rescuing these municipalities and their people or we're just talking about cities and ghost towns. So we need a plan of work that you have to help, that you have active employment policies, but also a plan to diversify the product model. We cannot be so dependent on foreign tourism on a large scale and, therefore, we need to strengthen, for one thing, industry and also people's services. Here, moreover, in this sector, if we are talking about the sun and plagiarism, we are usually talking about women and many times of people who are migrating, who are the faces and faces of precariousness and the poor. But also in other territories there is a tourism that is winter tourism, where it is also certain that it is different but where we also have poor working conditions. And I want to talk and set an example of the ski slopes of the Upper Pyrenees. They have directly forced them to become self-employed and, therefore, when the season comes up they arrive at the tracks and little track sees whether there are customers or not. If there are customers, cover and, if there are no customers, they are directly left without anything. And I want to remind you that a good part of the ski slopes are public. Therefore, this situation is unsustainable. And the more we're talking about territories, the more often the price of the lodger, the price of housing is more thought based on the second residence than thought for people who work and live there. The situation of the residences we saw during the toughest months of the pandemic. I'm simply waiting here, what you want is for you to be doing a planning job, planning not to find us again with the possible rebounds that we feel you could come in late, in a situation as distressing and as desperate as we saw the last few months. Great people, our opinions, our avies, directly exposed and vulnerable to the virus, with their families anxious and with the workers, because they often end up with women, therefore, in precarious working conditions and more without clear protocols or resources. They can't be late again. And from this X-ray, I can't make it clear that a couple of days ago he started school in Catalonia; a course that started without guaranteeing the distances of the jails in the classroom and a course that started without the download of reports that the experts were asking for. And it has not just become clear, for example, what will happen with the quarantines and how to guarantee the learning and follow-up to the students. They say they've hired five thousand professionals from the educated world. So five thousand professionals, teachers, five thousand masters, they were needed before the pandemic. Therefore, in a situation of exceptionality as we now have, we see that the Administration, that the Government has not made an extra effort to give response to the new needs. And once more they tell us the same thing that health professionals tell us: "We have a lot of vocation, but we can't do miracles. So what we need is less applause and more resources, because we keep each time, but the work is multiplying. And this situation of crisis accumulation adds to the exceptionality of counting on political leaders in prison and to the exile resulting from the political conflict and its judicialization by the governments of the People's Party. And I mean, this wound isn't just an independence wound. This wound is from all over the country, it's a whole society, regardless of whether someone votes independent options or not; regardless of the opinion of the parties that occurred in Catalonia in late 2017. There is a transversal consensus to our country for which it is considered that the Supreme Court's judgment is not fair and that, moreover, represents a major obstacle to the political resolution of the conflict. But it must also be said that this conflict for the first time has been understood by the central government as a political conflict that bets on the table of the dialog, that it is prepared to negotiate on the different mechanisms to resolve the situation of prisoners and prisoners and that, moreover, it works from bilaterality. What he means is that he actually recognizes Catalonia as a political subject and, moreover, that the path of dialogue and politics is the only way to resolve the conflict. And of course we'd like the rhythms to be different. And of course we'd like things to go faster, but a conflict that we've been running out of years, you'll understand – and I think it's common sense – will not be resolved in new months, which is the time this government takes. So we recognize that the complexity is high, that we have a judicialization of the policy of the previous governments of the People's Party and that we have a dome of the judiciary that is completely out of control and that in many cases – not to mention the majority – it behaves more like the guardian of the rule than with the defender of rights and freedoms and that therefore we need a change. And this reality, with all its edges, has consequences that make it difficult and that encourage the adventures. I think I don't want to look at and recognize this complexity and this difficult reality that we have before us only generates new frustrations and more impotence and, moreover, prevents us from getting to points of finding. I believe that things have their own rhythms that, as I say, are not always the ones that we would like, but do not recognize it alone as impotence. And we know – and he has told us – that President Torra has spoken to President Sánchez and it seems that they have conceded that there would be a new meeting of the dialog table. Says it seems because now Republican Left says that if the table is not celebrated the dialog already knows who it is. I don't know, finally, whether we'll have a meeting from the dial table or not. What we do know is that President Torra had told us on more than one occasion that he did not believe or trust the dial table. Therefore, if this meeting ends, we do not just know what the claim of this table is, if it will be used as a lever in the electoral campaign or if it forms part of this meeting of the supposed "intelligent confrontation that you foresee with the State". They don't know. What we do know is that in any case this table is necessary to move forward and that, therefore, we want the political group to use a tool that is necessary to be able to resolve the conflict in an electoral way. And to see the photograph, I also want to refer to the possible disqualification of President Torra's Supreme Court to keep a banner for a few hours at the Generality's balcony. As we have always defended, this possible disqualification obviously does not please people or anyone. In fact, we believe that it is serious that a President of the Generality may be disqualified for a fact of these characteristics. Now, I think I should tell the whole truth, too. I think we should never have gotten to this point. We should never have gotten to this situation. And also, to be honest, I think it has to be said that what President Torra did was not disobey, was obeyed differently. You kept the Palau de la Generalitat banner a few hours longer than the rest of the institutions in the middle of the electoral campaign, but it is now. And, in fact, as Eduard Voltas, who is a person with whom I am not used to coincide quite often, but this time I do, and for this reason I want to quote him..., he said: "That the Spanish judicial apparatus has conceived does not turn into heroic what was an act of obedience into different. So that's the same thing. We agree with what he was saying and that Voltas was getting worse. And that's why I'm telling you again, President: we don't think I should be disqualified as President of the General for keeping the banner for a few hours, but, as I said, we never should have gotten here. You, the 29th generation, said assumptions and choices: "The legislature is exhausted. There's no recurrence. There is no loyalty or trust between partners. He hasn't summoned them yet. We would never have arrived here, because you said that you would call a few elections and give the people of Catalonia a view of the structure to cope with the crisis. And instead, we find ourselves with a remodeling of government that seems more like an adjustment of accounts within the civil war that they have in post-convergent space than a remodeling done to the country's service. And we should never have come here because you should have called an election before the sight of your judgment was produced. There was a good opportunity today, because it showed that he was putting the institution in front of the person, but he didn't do it. He didn't do it. It's been months since we've had a date ball for when elections will be held in Catalonia, and never before have these dates possibilities been thought of depending on the interests and needs of the country. And what we're seeing and what we're seeing is that if you don't rectify, the next few weeks we can find ourselves with two presidents and their bosses. And all this in the face of an unprecedented crisis, an unusual crisis. And you said, "What does it mean to defend Catalonia? We work for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans. Well, we think that in the midst of a brutal crisis, that Catalonia has two presidents and that they have a president, that's not defending Catalonia, and that's not working for the seven million Catalans and Catalans. And it doesn't just give us lessons from what it means to defend Catalonia, but it also seems that now it wants to give us lessons from what it means to be left-handed. I couldn't attend the plenary last week for questions of salvation, but the control session I was able to follow from home and you were surprised because I didn't understand how I represented, like In Comú Pueblo, a left-wing party, so I didn't support it on the issue of the banner, and I didn't understand that the Barcelona Assembly removed the banner when asked for it by the electoral board and didn't hold it for a few more hours, as you did from the Government of the Generality. Miri, according to this theory, to be left-handed would be to obey in different ways, to be left-handed would be gesticulating from privileges and would pose the person before the institution of Catalans and Catalans. So I want to say to you, President, that for us this is a long way from what it means to be left-handed, it is a long way from what it means to be useful to the citizenry, to work for the common good, to add large numbers of people and actually to change things, to put aside party interests and to put the country forward. It's a long way to go for us. In fact, we consider that this legislature has practically been a lost legislature from the social economic point of view, feminist and in the fight against climate emergency. It is true that it was an anonymous legislature, with a situation of extreme exceptionality. But if we get back the speeches that you made from the first end to the last, we see that practically the promises and proposals that you made have not been fulfilled. You, in the coalition agreement, were bringing a multi-consultant to the Catalan constitution, and that's what's left of the calaix. When the disastrous judgment came out of the U of October and on some occasion more you spoke of repeating a unilateral reference and I believe that neither the members of Esquerra nor, at all, President Puigdemont bought it. And now we see your refusal to give the view to the citizenry because you decide which government wants to deal with these multiple crises that we have before and neither are you complete. But if, moreover, we review the general policy debates, and they only fix me in 2018, I will no longer go to 2019, I will fix myself in that two years ago, so we see that exactly the same happens. Where is the Catalan Agency of Social Protection; or the law of personal autonomy; or the creation of inclusive contexts and the model of support for large people in a situation of dependence; the reversal and the bet for biomedical research; where is the complete Catalan strategy of addressing sensellarism; where is the T-Mobility, the tariff change of all Catalonia; the law of territories; the law of mountains? And I could follow... They are proposals that are not ours, they are proposals that are theirs, that they were girls at the 2018 general policy debate and that have not yet seen the light. Therefore, we follow symbolism, we follow great words, but we do not see facts. And if this legislature has not been a completely lost legislature, we believe that it has been thanks to all the mobilizations that have led to the end of the bombers, from the moves, the teachers, the lodgers, the health professionals, who have advanced in the recovery of some rights. And also because we have a few assumptions, and we've had the opportunity to redo some long-term assumptions from 2017, some assumptions where we've got some conquests that if they were needed now, they still see that they're more essential, like increasing the public health requirement by 900_million euros. We were willing to negotiate, to dialogue, to get some assumptions, I insist, that if they were necessary, I believe that with the pandemic they proved to be essential. And, also, we have the feeling, president, that listening to you every week seems like the people of Comú may be bothering you. And it seems that, sometimes, we want to turn into the enemy of Catalonia. At a time when we need more alliances than ever before, at a time when we need big agreements and majorities, at a time when we don't need confrontation but what we need is cooperation, we have the feeling that we are bothering him and that he wants to turn us into the enemy or Catalonia simply because we give some truths that may be uncomfortable. Because we're an anti-repressive force, but we don't buy their gestures, because we show that we can only advance when we get broad agreements and also if we move to the state, because we consider the republic to be a common cause and not a cause of division, but above all, as I have said, because we give truths and don't often believe the epic relationship that you want to do and that we consider that it has only generated frustration and impotence. And besides, we've always defended the same thing. As I said, we have a Spanish judiciary that's on the rise, so it's serious that you may be disqualified, but we shouldn't have gotten here. What else do we have? So that the U of October was an exercise of emancipation, empowerment, brutal self-organization, demonstration of fortitude, citizenship, shameful and unjust repression on the part of the Spanish Government, but from the U of October we believe that it is not a democratic mandate because you, unilaterally, are pursuing a political project. We have no problem in pointing out that you said that you were not here to administer an autonomy but to make the Catalan Republic and that did not happen. And what it is to administer, to administer, not to mass. Also day, and let's not be mistaken, whether the state of alarm pleases us or not, it wasn't a new 155. I think I should recognize the president as an extraordinary persistence and obstinacy to try to prove that a government of the People's Party is exactly the same as a government of the Socialist Party, of the United We can and of the Common We can, but I believe that all Catalans and Catalans know that it is not so. In fact, let them ask you with the Law of Democratic Memory that for us I must say that it is all a misapprehension, precisely, that it is asked to ask you to forgive, precisely, the child and the net, the daughters and the nets of those people retaliated for the franchise. I also think it bothers those who say that you were so focused on the confrontation with the central government that you were not expected to see the possible rebounds that could reach Catalonia's estuary, and that we were one-and-a-half months without a secretary of Public Health, that you were late at the rebounds, that you were missing trackers, that you were spending a lot of money on private sanitation when what you were going to do is to target the public, that you missed planning in the classrooms. And they also know that day and they don't like it that much they say that before the government they were divided and that with the pandemic it seems that this situation has been resolved, made..., I won't talk about anything else, but made like that of the Ple of the monarchy, which has turned into a new witch hunt between you, prove that if before there had been division there would still have been. And that's why we – and I'm running out of time – will insist that Catalonia needs a policy of truth, it needs a good government, it doesn't mistake priorities, a government that governments to protect the common people. And I want to insist, we're in front of an unprecedented crisis, people, businesses, public servants are on the edge and, therefore, we ask you not to fall, once more, into gesticulation, because it's the worst possible time for gesticulation; put people forward, complete their word and don't keep the country hanging from a wire any longer. It cannot be that we find ourselves in a brutal crisis, with two symbolic presidents and without an effective president, president. So ask him, please, to call elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.10.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.11.0	Thank you, President. President, to start our response to a speech – dexi'mdir-li – of natural autonomy, of strict autonomy management – has surprised us, frankly – despite some final note of anti-repression types. To start our response to his speech, we would initially try to point out some dimensions of the crisis which, from our point of view, is important to point out. Atur, unemployment, between 12,8 or 16,4 if they count ERT, with a drop of approximately 30_percent of hours worked. It loses almost twice the employment that in the European media and this is obviously due to the great job insecurity of our country before the Covid and the economic model. The poor, almost a 25_per_cent in the face of precarious work and housing. In this crisis, the rich are richer and the poor are poorer. Repression of denunciations, which is a structural violation of capitalism against the poorest; precariousness of self-employed workers; industrial collapse, etc. We also need to clear the lack of a teacher's school year, seven hundred teachers and teachers less than those who had been bought by the council with the unions; no work reconciliation for families; without resolving this essential priority that is work reconciliation, work and school, and without fulfilling the minimum needs. Lack of health, collapsing primary care and poor working conditions in health workers. It creates the problem in mental salvation, which has become a major cause of mortality. Large people's residences are without resources or the necessary support. And if we look at the incidence of the Covid for territories and social groups, we will cruelly find the map of inequality in a climate crisis context that is growing, as a result of the economic and territorial model that you, from your government, continue to support. And also in the mark of a clear and obvious feminization of the crisis; the crisis has face as a woman, as well as precariousness. And all this in the context of a reorganisation of capital with growing inequality and precariousness, speculation with basic benefits, speculative displacements and socialization of losses and privatization of benefits. And what was the answer from the governments? Since the Government of the Generality, we see that they do not give answers or adequate or sufficient. Distention of primary care, the escandol of Ferrovial, and high risk investments with public money for operations financed for private benefit, speculation and toxic, both socially as environmental as, for example, Barcelona World, with an erroneous model of development that deepens in the monoculture of tourism and the oci. The investment per student in the concert has increased more than in the public. The course begins, as we say, without teaching or the necessary resources. Continue the deficiencies and shortcomings to the guaranteed income of citizens, without the result of a universal basic income. Absence of a public housing policy and we do not yet know the announced and expected change in the priorities and parties of the premise, while we remain without a public bank and continue to watch the repressive function of the Interior Council and the accusations by the Generality against dissent and independence. But we're going to the state government. Without responding to the democratic conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State, repression continues effectively, does not repeal the law bites, does not repeal labour reform. Now, on top of that, announce a possible wage freeze, ease of accommodation, and that ERTO consumes a full-time job. They cover up corruption and the escape of Joan Carles I. For the time being, they do not ask for forgiveness or reparation for the Company case and other reprisals for the franchise. Socialize also lost and privatize benefits through their economic policies. We continue without protection for conciliations, neither download nor pay permission. Institutional racism continues to be practised, not to mention the lack of propriety in the management of ERTO and income or vital minimum income. I support the autonomes, we don't know him at the moment. And obviously all this in the context of a turn of the right of the Spanish government of Ciutadans's hand. What is our proposal, our alternative? Quickly, social liberation and national liberation of our country. For what it does to social liberation, guarantee life: pa, universal basic income; basement: guarantee housing; work: labor reform; creation of a public bank; tax reform and transition to economic sovereignty. A new model of production oriented towards democratisation, relocation, an eco-social transition of Catalan economic activities, including industry in the centre, a public system that guarantees the quality of services and work socially necessary for the care of people; at the expense of an agricultural sector reoriented to short-cycle, economic production and food sovereignty. A public and universal 100_per_cent health system. This new system should prioritise primary, preventive and community health, working with the remaining departments of the Public Administration to deal with the social determinants of health. Universal, free and inclusive public education in all stages and areas of education. Nationalization of the energy sector and basic water management. A national industrial conversion plan. Converting and transforming distribution and the food industry to ensure the right to food to everyone and, at the same time, our food sovereignty. Social and solidary economy, in the framework of a public economy, of public services and of basic resources nationalized and socialized; a_second actor of the new economic model must be co-operativeism and the combination of the social and solidary economy. Valuing reproductive work and education and economics with a feminist perspective. As the feminist movement points out, the Covid-19 sharpens the cure crisis of the dominant model of social reproduction, a sustained crisis for women, especially of working class and migrant origin. There is a massive reorganisation of the relationship between production and reproduction to allow people of any class, sex, sexual orientation and color to combine social reproduction activities with safe and well-paid work. Work division. Because we can all work, so we can share the work. This means, immediately, moving to the working day of thirty-five hours; in the perspective of, in the next few years, reaching thirty, obviously, with a minimum interprofessional salary that is not less than 1,200_euros. Green economy. To the Catalan countries, until today, economic development policies have deepened the economic crisis because they have not had in the center the preservation of the common natural assets, the sustainable management of the territory, the agro-ecological and energy transition, the short distribution circuits, the sustainable mobility or the significant reduction of emissions. In this sense, it is urgent to implement a change of production and consumption model, the ecological transformation of the entire economic system. And now we're talking about national liberation. To build a country that is fairer and more democratic, freer and more ecological, more open and more supportive, we must overcome the limits that are imposed. Real changes that we need are impossible from current institutions and with current legal and policy frameworks. This country needs illusory and rescue from the poor, a collection project where no one is left behind, an economic and health model that guarantees life, and put an end to the destruction of our planet. And to call it sobrieties, sobriety, self-determination, independence and national construction of our territorial area, political construction of the Catalan Countries. And where do we currently find ourselves in relation to these objects and these reptiles? Let's talk about government partners. Together for Catalonia, there is a purely discourse dispute, declared, symbolic, sometimes legal, and an autonomous management that strictly abides by constitutional and statutory frameworks. The Republican Left offers us a dialog which, now as it is, is smoke, without tangible counterparties on the democratic resolution of the conflict that encloses self-determination and the fission of repression in a real and effective way. The binomial based on autonomous management and the dialogue with the Spanish Government has failed and led us to the present atzucac, both for what it does to public policies and for what it does to the exercise of self-determination – it seems to us that this is an objective and undeniable data. Why, what are the minimums for a real negotiation, the Republican Left or the commons? National and political right-wing recognition for our country, recognition of the right to self-determination, enabling the democratic instrument to exercise it – probably a reference, which is the most internationally recognized – and the return of repression. Not one of these conditions is currently given. So they'll explain to us what they're talking about. So, we're riding a new independence cycle. The most likely resolution, even if not the only possible, of this political conflict will be that of a self-determination referendum with international validation and amnesty, for which, indeed, the time has come, we will be able to count a majority. But rightly so, and with the strength of the legitimates emanating from '1, 3 and 27 October, and attuned to the nature of the Spanish State and the 78 rule, to arrive at this resolute scene at the international level is pre-requisite of unilaterality and democratic rupture with the Spanish State. What? Promoting sovereignty and sovereignties: legislativeizing and implementing public policies in the service of social and environmental justice independently of the position of the Government and of the judicial institutions and institutions of the State, for example, by proposing laws regulating loguers or public banking or foreign policy; public control of strategic infrastructures, basic resources and services and common benefits; institutional acts of political affirmation of sovereignty, defusing declarative symbolism and guaranteeing political materialization; creating alternative democratic institutions at national and international level; mobilization and civil disobedience supported, with territorial control. On this horizon and these bases, we propose to build a new independence and popular unit. And we also need to lead the response to the Covid-19 health, economic and social crisis. This country needs urgent responses before social emergence, a profound change in the social and economic model and independence. And, for that matter, we need great national agreements for self-determination, for rights and for freedoms. Before that, we find ourselves before the evidence of the wear, the blockade, the sugar of the present government. Fractures at the national level and fractures at the social level. We come to the end of the independence cycle that culminated in October 1 and October 3 – you carry us there. We do all the self-criticism that we share, but we also say that, from the legitimacy and strength of the 1st and 3rd of October to move forward unilaterally, despite the persistence of repression and exile, we need to open the way to a new fight and we need to start again, learn from previous mistakes and shortcomings and gain, with our own strength, with the self-control of our rights, knowing that there has been no transition from law to law, that we do not advance with symbolic or declaratory acts. We'll need to take power democratically. And to start this new cycle, so that we can take this new cycle forcefully, effectively, call elections, and call elections also for obvious wear, for blocking and sugaring this government for what it does to all these goals. And also, at times, we are anti-repressive and democratic in order to face a democratic confrontation with the State before the possible disqualification of President Torra, and also to work for a new cycle of independence that allows us to face with force this new struggle with the State, which, this time yes, remains firm, definite and effective. And finally, we want to reiterate that there will be no democratic resolution of the conflict or international agreement that recognizes it without unilaterally exercising self-determination of the streets, assemblies and parliaments and governments, controlling the territory, nationalizing and socializing resources, and exercising every day – every day – all sovereignty, full sovereignty, in favor of the rights of the people, in favor of the rights of the people, in front, with all the instruments, of this crisis. That this crisis will not leave anyone behind, that the rich will not be richer, and that the poor will not be poorer. That the response to this crisis is based on equality, social justice and the fullness of rights for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.12.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the parable of the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.13.0	Thank you very much, President. It is clear that we have had a few years in which the general policy debate has been presided over by a deep political division, by a break in the coexistence between Catalans and by recurring illegalities that we had to comment on at every moment. And, anyway, that's always been the picture. And while it is always better to have an optimistic attitude towards life, it is also better to be realistic to be able to deal with problems, and the truth is that unfortunately in this case things could go to worse; and they have gone to worse. And even though today you, Mr. Torra, have made a huge effort to make us believe that you had changed overnight in Torra, the technocrat, a cold, insecure manager, in short, to the low passions of identity policy – it has not just slipped, at this point in the film, I can assure you – the reality is very hard. We are living at the dawn of an economic crisis of unknown dimensions, in addition to uncertain scenarios of the outbreak of the pandemic, which, if aggravated, would also exacerbate that economic crisis and deepen in that drama of loss of human life that we have suffered in recent months. And in that scenario, in case it wasn't difficult enough, you threaten us with an unprecedented scenario of institutional blockade at the worst time in our history, when more unity we need; a blockade, moreover, premeditated, tested, voluntary and with the will – worth redundancy – to respond to that idea that the worse, the better. You threaten us to leave Catalonia, if you confirm your disqualification, with a government in office that has no capacity to legislate or approve budgets. They also threaten us by giving us nothing less, they said before, two no, three presidents of the Generalitat, as if we didn't have enough with you. You would be the one to call "the legitimate Waterloo," the acting president, who could be Mr Aragonès or you would know, and you would be baptized as the symbolic president, in a dantec spectacle that would invite to laughter if it were not for the gravity of what we are living. And all this, in addition, in a situation which was reported last year in this same debate and which, by the way, the media have echoed in recent times. And it is that they have left Catalonia worse prepared than ever to overcome a crisis of this nature. In an unimaginable scenario in 1990, Catalonia no longer leads per capita income in Spanish communities, it is the fourth. There has been the already famous sorpasso of Madrid, but not only that of Madrid, that of many other autonomous communities, has been commented here, in other parameters and indicators. And, in addition, with a curious paradox: to greater self-government, worse results have been achieved. To other autonomous communities, with less competence than Catalonia and with less autonomous funding than Catalonia, has gone much better, proving that the problem is not the autonomous system itself, the problem is nationalism when it governs. Years ago I described what I thought were the ten causes for which this had been caused. Let me develop a little more than three of them, for their relevance in the light of the events experienced in recent months. Firstly, a public administration in Catalonia that stifles the private initiative, which devours ferocious public resources, and undermines any progress from giant but absolutely unproductive structures. That is the real slab that we have in Catalonia, and it does not come precisely from Madrid, you have created it. Secondly, a framework, that of national construction, that of separatist clergy, insensitive to the difficulties of the most needy people, since you all seem to have solved life, and also it seems that you care a pepper block everything following the dictates of the bunker of Waterloo. It is that you even call yourselves "legitimists; a language of reactionary Carliston reminiscences, and what you claim to be republicans. Thirdly, the acceptance of an extreme left-wing policy as a toll on parliamentary support during all these years of the CUP, with a fiscal pressure absolutely unleashed; with unprecedented attacks on concerted education – bearing in mind that Catalonia, together with Navarra, are the two autonomous communities with the greatest tradition in this type of education throughout Spain – ; with a lack of protection of the owner in relation to the illegal occupation that you in private recognize, even if you then flee from the debate; with language, sometimes – not all of you, but a few yes – – to tourism, taking into account that it is a sector that is suffering a lot and that represents nothing more and nothing less than 12_percent of Catalan GDP. As I said a moment ago, other autonomy with less competence and less funding than Catalonia works better. Why? Because they do not suffer the brutal scourge of a government of that nature, which is the scourge, and does not come from Madrid; you provoke it. Well, drawn this first scenario of conjuncture, let me tell you about the current situation. You, and you, Mr. Torra, assured us that you would prioritise the exit from the crisis in the fight against the pandemic after you killed the legislature, and even promised us that you would be able to park the divisions between you. And the case is that I have to admit that, for two weeks, because it did not last any longer, we came to think that it would be possible: you joined the meetings of autonomous presidents – you had never done so – and even your cabinet answered with some attention the comprehensive proposal documents that we sent them. Moreover, it seemed that it even changed the hostile tone it had towards the opposition. It was, unfortunately, a mirage that lasted very little – two weeks. Nature was able to them, on many occasions fanatical; no, they cannot overcome it. In the end they presented, they started a plenary session on the monarchy which in no case had as object a real, serene debate on the form of state in Spain, what goes, the only thing they were pursuing was the usual thing: to attack each other, the partners of the government, to see whether or not they dared to publish the resolutions adopted here. They went back, as always, to walks. A wild fratricidal struggle between you for the armchair disguised as love for Catalonia. From that moment on we lived weeks of attacks between you, between Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, absolutely furious. I'd never seen anything like it in my life between government partners. In fact, I thought, Mr. Torra, that you and I had a difficult relationship, but compared to what you have with your governing partners, we are very much afraid that it is the last tango in Paris. In addition, attacks between you are incompatible with the effective management of a pandemic. The case of Oriol Mitjà is paradigmatic: a professional of prestige who has been unable to work normally in an environment of chaos and mistrust among all of you. Not to mention residences, also chaotic in management. Chaos, too, on the way back to the classrooms. Not to mention the constant leaks between you accusing each other of hiding information from the citizenry. Two weeks of mirage lasted, two weeks. And now they threaten you with an institutional blockade, he said, and a boycott that could be unprecedented. Look, it seems that you are willing, Mr Torra, to confirm your disqualification, to sacrifice the welfare of millions of Catalans for preserving, you point out, "the dignity of the presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Do not confuse the dignity of the presidency with your personal problems, which only concern you and which, moreover, have been sought by you on your own. Do not use millions of Catalans as hostages. Disobeying the election board was his personal decision. You assume your responsibility and do not lead to misery throughout Catalonia because one day you decided to complicate your life yourself. No one forced him, no presidential dignity. Well, he pointed out that two weeks has lasted, or lasted, the mirage. Well, you have returned to the logic of the national populist movement based in Waterloo, which speaks of democracy but never practice, which never dialogues. You have returned to the demonization of dialogue and agreement, even among yourselves. Anyone who dialogues, anyone who agrees becomes a botifler and a traitor. It's just that that's their dynamic of constant operation. You have returned to the dynamics of stigmatization of the dissenter. In private they say one thing – we have talked about the debate of the Age of Nature, the debate of the occupation – but then they dare not say anything. It's obedience to what they say in Waterloo for fear of what can happen. That is to deny democratic debate; here we have never been able to make a healthy democratic debate. But, moreover, they have added to all this something more serious: the destruction of the most elementary social and democratic ties. The attack on the lawyers of the Parliament of Catalonia is one of the most nauseous episodes I have witnessed in my political career. The national populist movement points out, stigmatizes and aims to push honest workers to the crime who took their place with effort in difficult oppositions, and who did so by swearing or promising to comply with and enforce the law, apart from their personal ideology. If after leading that social hunt to the lawyers of this house have not the slightest remorse or charge of conscience, I have come to the conclusion that theirs no longer has a remedy; they have directly stolen their souls and have incapacitated them for democratic life. If they have to do this sort of thing to achieve independence, is it really worth it? – Is it really worth it? There is something deeply tormented in that idea according to which to build Catalonia of the future they must destroy without mercy and cruelty Catalonia of the present. I don't see any love for Catalonia there, what I see is something much more unpleasant: I see grudge and I see fanaticism. And about grudge and fanaticism, nothing could ever be built at all. That's the picture, ladies and gentlemen. What can we do to change things, to correct this course? We have a lot to say, and we do it with humility, knowing that we are a party that is growing but with a still modest space, I take it, but we believe that we can contribute, because we have a vocation, I always say, to direct us to all Catalans, think as they think. Firstly, an indispensable attitude, which I believe we should all have, but which we are going to contribute. We will never fight a grudge and a fanaticism with another equivalent grudge and fanaticism. That's very important. We are committed – I am committed – to never demonizing harmony, reconciliation and agreement. That is true, always within the framework of the law, because it is the only possible path in democracy. We committed ourselves to working to recover some of the features that had generated admiration for Catalonia for so many years. Some now say they are topical; others, hurt by everything that has happened, come to say that that never existed. Well, I say yes, that they existed, of course they did. And I think so. And I say this because I know the history of Catalonia well, and because I also rely on my own personal experience as a Catalan. Until the process of national construction began to poison everything, here we were able to achieve great things in culture, sport, the arts in general, science, the economy. Everything. It wasn't a dream. That happened in Catalonia. And it can happen again. From the People's Party of Catalonia we are committed to promoting in Catalonia more civil society and less bureaucracy, more coexistence and less exclusive identity, more freedom and less imposition. We are also committed to regaining the idea of good governance; we are committed to regaining a democratic parliament in this institution. Look, democratic parliamentaryism, in the face of populism, is what suffers most, because populism generates anti-politics. The idea that parliaments are slow, that can be true, that sometimes there is too much debate, political, can also be true, but it is also true that democratic parliamentaryism is the system that has proved to work best. When someone constantly does pedagogy of disobedience to the law, that is deeply contagious and ends up affecting everything. That's what happened to you on September 6th and 7th three years ago. The failure to respect any rule, any legal requirement in the debate, implied that this institution did not serve, that this institution was left. It was you who were out of democracy. That day they decided that they could at that time appoint Carles Puigdemont as the highest judicial authority in Catalonia, with impunity, simply because they had decided that that was what the will of the people in a demonstration had transferred to them. I don't respect anything at all. There they showed that the nature of their project was not democratic, it was deeply authoritarian. Therefore, precisely in order to be able to recover the Catalan economy, to fight the pandemic, and to regain coexistence and respect among all of us, we will also have to be able to regain the dignity of the Catalan democratic institutions. It will be a colossal, very difficult task. But exciting. For me, it's worth it. Some of us are willing to give that battle in Catalonia as long as it takes. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.14.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.15.0	Good morning, President. President of Parliament, councillors, deputies, deputies, we are once again at the door of an attack by the Spanish State on the sovereignty of all Catalans and all Catalans. We are at the door – as was previously the case on 155, the investiture, the suspension of the deputies – of a new attempt by the Spanish judiciary to decide who is leading the Catalan institutions, of a new attempt to put and take presidents, stifling democracy. Tomorrow our president, tomorrow President Torra, will be on the bench of the accused for defending freedom of speech, and faces the possibility of an unfair and shameful disqualification; a new interference after wanting to change majorities, veto political prisoners as public representatives in Parliament and Congress or decide who can and cannot be an MEP. But the President of Catalonia triages the Parliament of this country. And he does it after he gets his citizens in charge. Only the Parliament has to put or remove presidents of the Generality. That is why it is essential that we agree, that we do not leave the possibility of deciding it to a Spanish court, but that we take advantage of the margin we have to intervene. It is serious that it is intended to change the president of the Catalans democratically chosen to keep a support banner for freedom and against repression applied for the State to our companies for a few hours. We're pregnant. And President Torra knows that he has us and that he will always have us at his side, always. The decision of the Supreme Court raises the question of democracy, the same democratic and right-wing system is at stake right now, and there is only one objective behind it: the systematic persecution of concrete political ideas. We are ahead of a new episode of the general cause against independence. Because it's obvious that if this same thing happened anywhere else or if the president of the generality wasn't independent, it wouldn't happen. Now it's up to us – and it would be irresponsible not to do so – to prepare the response to consciousness. Before this new attack, we cannot experience a new episode of division of independence. No one can make short-flying elections. It is urgent and essential that the governing partners, the first governing partners, but together with the companies of the CUP, we can agree on what should be the scenes before this possible disqualification, and share them with all the sovereignists, also with the social agents, and with a citizenry that demands clarity and certainty before another moment of greatest political difficulty, but also social and health care. I need to agree on a country response, thinking about the people. He's asking the people. We can't just let it pass, and find ourselves after a minute with different visions about the response to be given. We've already made a mistake other times; we can't go back to a situation like this. At the moment, it has not been possible, but just as I say it has not been possible, I also mean that the predisposition of the parts seems good to me, but time is running out. And we don't give up or give up. We do not want the Supreme Court to be who marks the agenda of this legislature when it begins and when it ends, who is the president or who is not. We cannot leave to the hands of the Spanish State neither the times nor the decision to preside over the main institution of our country. But we also do not want anyone to take advantage of the Government of Catalonia to wear down the travel company or to think about the party instead of thinking about the country. It's a big irresponsibility in the moments that come. To think about the country, to govern republicanly, to always serve the citizens; to give answer to the reptes that leaves us the pandemic; to work to recover the school year, to help in the work reconciliation, to recover the places of work, to recover competitiveness in the business world. And that can only be done – it can only be done – a strong government, a cohesive government, a government with leadership. We cannot allow the Supreme to leave us a decapitated, no-way, affluent government. We can't be electoralists and think about rebuilding a party, because we all know that when we were good it's when we were together, when we agreed it's when the country has moved forward: country strategy and consensus on the part. The best solution will always be the one we agree together, without impositions and without chants. We control our times; we direct the political agenda of the country of Catalonia; we avoid if, eight months of provisionality, they never agree with us, but they still agree with us less now, in Covid's time. Our proposal is clear: the pact, the consensus and the provisionality as much as possible. The option of not doing so is irresponsible and does not respond to the common good of all Catalans. We are facing a very severe economic and social crisis, and as long as we continue to struggle against the pandemic, against a pandemic that has changed the world as we have known until today. And we would have to do it – we would have to do it – with many less tools than we have today. Can we afford to be in office for eight months, without president and with less authority to rule the country? I believe that all of us – all of us – can agree that it is not so, that it is just the opposite: that a plural, broad, self-determinatory government, with the independence, cohesive and strong majority, with an ambition program, can cope with the effects of the virus and plan an economic model linked to others – at the same time, whenever – that faces repression. We're here to take on all the responsibilities, all the challenges that the pandemic leaves us. We're here to transform, to defend everyone, come from where I come. We want to get out of this crisis with more social rights, not less, with more labor rights, not less, and to do so we need very much. With the pandemic on top, we can't just manage the day-to-day, or do it with less tools and less mechanisms than we have today. We agree on this bench that if we want to be a state it is precisely because we lack many tools to help our people. They can't give up now on the few we have. We cannot go to the rhythm of a Supreme who only wants to weaken us. What reason does it justify not taking decisions and letting the clock run? He repressed it. He doesn't want to let us do politics. So, more politics. Our answer is always to fight with more politics. It is not only a matter of defending us in the courts, which also: the best option is to do politics, to agree; to agree with the objective of doing politics to be stronger, not against each other, together; together to fight repression, together to fight the virus. Lead us, don't go to the trailer. Overtake them. We make the sceneries that are to come. We've got it clear. We're giving it to certain people. Let's do it together, President. You have all our loyalty to build the scenes. He will always have us – always – at his side; also in the legal struggle that another time he will win Europe, also, but not only. We give all the Catalans certain, that they know that we will not give up anything, without means, to fight against the virus and that we will not give up any advantage to fight repression. Strategy and planning to deal with repression. Strategy and planning to face repression is not to endorse it, it is to fight it. Let them pass you over without reacting it would be to endorse it. It's on our hands to avoid long interinats. It's on our hands to avoid a temporaryity that people today don't want. That is why we are convinced that we will put the country and the citizenry at the centre of our decisions, and we will be at the height of the moment, agreeing a way out, together, with unity, that which we always agree, President, always agree, that makes us stronger. This, however, is only the last episode of a legislature that has been very hard and very different. Three years marked for repression, for judicialization, for division in the independence world, for symbolism also sometimes, and now the worst pandemic of our time. President, you're not feeling an easy legislature, and now you could end up suddenly and abruptly. It is at their hands and at their parties that we support maintaining the dignity of a body and an institution that is over people, a dignity that has always worried you – it has always worried them – and has told us repeatedly in this very Parliament. You've always been old enough for the dignity of the institution. And we'll be right next to him 'cause that's what it is. The repression we have to fight together, agreeing and working together the best responses, looking to anticipate and keep all the options always prepared, all the scenes covered. Maintaining the dignity of the cargo is important, as it is not leaving the country, in the midst of the pandemic, in an interim situation more than half a year. We must be strong against the repression of the State, just as we must be strong against the pandemic. The time has come to abandon the toilets between us and start talking about proposals. We knew it before October 1st. We've been able to do it many times along the way of our history. And we have to do it this September, we have to turn this September into a turning point to get the initiative back, to talk about proposals for the future, to finally take the road back to the republic. We must look at the past – yes, we must always look at the past – but we must do so with a vocation of the future in order to take 'napprendages' and to strengthen us as a movement to make it another time. It's no use throwing us away, as we do wrong sometimes, the dishes for the head for what we did or didn't do, for what we said or didn't say. Because if in one thing we agree all folds is that we haven't finished the job, and because often what we say is just our truth. And these toilets don't add up, stay, end up expelling people from a project where there's no one; from a project that didn't go by people for our internal stings. If the object of all pleas is to win freedom, it is to get the Catalan Republic, we abandon the toilets. Strategic unit, way together. We've always defended him, even when he's chanting with the electoral unit. Diversity and plurality to represent the honest country; strategic unity to focus all folds on a few points in common and on an object that we have very clearly. It's obvious that today we're not in a determined moment. It is a conclusion that today shares the whole independence movement, although statements by some actors do not always – not always – prove it. But the lack of strategy and the denial of this evidence has led us too often to navigate through this symbolism and by gestures that few had determined to advance us. The symbolism only calls those who are already convinced and send us away from the main bulk of our society. We always have to talk to the city council to make ours a winning project. We must return to the objective of explaining independence, that it is no other than building a better country, a republic for everyone. Independence and independence is democracy; and it has to be progress, and it has to be social justice, and it has to be feminism, ecology, and so many, so many shared struggles that we have in our country. And in this sense for us it's also helpful to work to be more. Prepare us in every possible area to strengthen us and face our own struggle with the maximum guarantees of victory. And in this way we can never – never – give up the flag of the dialog and negotiation. Because independence is strong when we associate it with the idea of democracy, of urn, and obviously of dialogue and of extension. We can never be the ones who give up the dialog. In the end, the dialog table, the negotiating table is the explicit recognition by the Spanish State that there is a political conflict, and it does so not in the eyes of Catalans, but in the eyes of the whole world. It's a success in itself that obviously has to go much further. We only have a picture today. Now we have to get to the party and we have to do it now. The State has to move. Our proposal is clear, very clear, and coincides with what the CUP explained. In the end, our proposal is summarized as simply as amnesty and self-determination. The Spanish proposal today does not exist and, if it does, we do not know it. What we do know is that the final agreement is the best of the scenes; the option that generates guarantees and international recognition; the option that concentrates, as we have often emphasized, the consensus of our country. But neither are we naive, and we also know that the Spanish State is not the United Kingdom. We must try the dialog, force it, because if we succeed in giving fruit, it will be a great success. But we also have to do this because if you fail, we'll be carrying reason again, another time, and legitimacy to do it again. Because they don't do us for disobedience or unilaterality, if we're able to be more and prepare ourselves better first. And if we do this before a government supposedly left and talking, which for the moment has not proved to be left and not talking – zero of two. It is neither responsible nor strategically intelligent to leave the dialog. Independentists can't do it in case of this gift to the State. In any case, what we have to do is make it clear that it is they who give up; we have to keep working because the dialogue and the negotiation are producing fruit, and we have to prepare all the scenes. Because today the dialog is the most intelligent confrontation we can make with the State; go to the dialog table with a joint, consensual program, which is summed up in the two points we say, amnesty and self-determination, to put the State in contradiction, force it to move the file, and in any case the Spanish government that is now forced to rise from the table if it turns out that there is finally nothing to offer. And this dialogue and this negotiation must never be countered to mobilization, a mobilization indispensable for having bargaining power at the table. It is important that the State be aware that its refusal to negotiate a referendum, if it persists in time, will lead to a new democratic debate, a new action of independence. We have said this and repeated these days: our patience is not infinite and will depend on the immobilism of the State. If it continues to permanently frustrate the democratic aspirations of most citizens and possible viable solutions such as giving the citizen a voice, independence will have to follow, as many times has done, its path. And he'll know more, then he'll know. And it has to be stronger and more prepared. On the bright side is what you say that Marta Rovira and Oriol Junqueras explain to us in a book, in a book where we wanted to put this strategy of Republican Esquerra in order to fulfill the objective of the Catalan Republic; a proposal that brings together three years of analysis that we have done well and that we can improve on since October 2017. Since many months we have been working to respond with proposals and effective work as we have to continue from now on. And we do this in two ways: at the national level, as we move towards the objective of the republic, and at the social level, as we face the social and economic crisis and as we begin the reconstruction of the country. Two struggles that for us can never, ever, be separated, the national struggle and the social struggle, two indestriable struggles. We work on this double goal and we do it the way we've always done it. Working for the Catalan Republic is working for a country that is more just and more forthcoming, and sometimes to end inequalities, for once for all to have social justice and to be able to achieve this republic. We know – we know – that in the Spanish State Catalonia there is no future and that we have to demonstrate already how the republic we so long for can be. Neither the crisis can make us forget the struggle for amnesty, self-determination and independence, nor can we wait for the Catalan Republic to start transforming our country. To be more and more prepared to return there and gain definitively, to prepare us better to do it again. Senzill and clear, prepare us better to do it again. This is the Republican Left proposal. We think it's the only way to win, work to be more and prepare ourselves better, and then go back, go back and go back. There are no magic skills, just work, work, work and more work. And I'm sure it won't be as fast as we want, but today the path to independence is already irreversible. And the second sentence is this plan of reconstruction of the country after the pandemic, a reconstruction that must begin from now on. The outcome of the crisis caused by the coronavirus will determine the future of this country at all levels. What we do today will determine what to be tomorrow. And that is why we believe that it is absolutely essential that we take advantage of this stage of reconstruction that begins now to build the foundations of the Catalan Republic for which we work, to advance towards society and the country we want. First, it's up to us to resist the strength of an underground virus, and now it's up to us to rebuild the country after the paralysis as a result of this pandemic. And precisely this stage must serve to lay the foundations of the just and free society that we long for: the Catalan Republic. We cannot hear the country's socio-economic reconstruction agenda without the republican agenda. Before those who pretend to take advantage of the moment to support the 78th Regime, we choose to offer, to build the foundations of the Catalan Republic. It's time to transform the country, it's time to walk forward. The proposal is based on the principles of republicanism, social justice and quality of life, ecological values, the value of feminism, with the aim of putting the country in poverty, making it more just, freer, and thinking about everyone, in all Catalans. The reconstruction agenda must be the agenda of the Catalan Republic, in a republic of rights and freedoms for everyone. Esquerra's compromise is unequivocally transformative, left-wing and independenceist. We need to strengthen public services to build the welfare state, a state of modern well-being, a state of advanced welfare; reconcile work with life, re-establish the territory and move towards a country that is balanced and connected with the network; bet on renewable energy and zero residue; recover culture as a driving force of free and compromised citizenship, and build a wide-ranging road, a wide-ranging road between everyone, and independence. And how do we do that? So working from now on but looking at the long term with a modern, green, egalitarian country view, at the level of the best European social democracies. And I'm just listing a few of these projects that we're planning for the future: the Barcelona of the 30 minutes; we need to make sure that from the metropolitan area it's possible to reach the center of Barcelona in thirty minutes by public transport. The minimum wage of 1.200_euros, which enables the promotion of higher wages, and a reordering of the multiple social benefits to move towards universal basic income. To make Catalonia a technological hub for research and innovation in the Mediterranean. Work to end up targeting a 3_per_cent minimum of GDP in research and innovation. Walking towards a renewable, democratic, and zero-kilometre cent_per_cent energy – and that can't wait. To promote a plan for the revival of culture, a sector that is fundamental for the country and for life. We need to reverse European standards and pay attention to creators and creators. This is the way; this is the way to an innovative, modern and advanced country in the form of a republic. And to make it possible, it is essential that independence is endowed with a shared strategy, that it combines plurality and Catalan diversity, that it starts from cooperation and that we stop competing, and that we make each other strong together in front of the battles of the State. We're here to make a Catalonia free, fair, different, early, net and feminist. And that is why it is essential that we work to strengthen ourselves, that we continue to be able to mark our common reps in order to keep moving forward. It is necessary to start a new stage, a stage, as I said before, in an extended way, which allows us to face the challenges and a new battle with the State successfully. But to do so, it is essential that we have internal complicity and that we do not repeat the mistakes we have made at other times. I call a plural government, amplified but cohesive and strong, and with a program of government ambitions. It is necessary to stop the effects of the virus and set a _frame to get out of the crisis that allows us to change system and model. It is the hour of a new strategy that allows us to recover the initiative, a new impulse, a new impulse towards independence. And our proposal is summed up in a very simple way. First of all, you objected. Overcoming the 50_per_cent barrier in your own choices. This allows us to jump out of phase, gain legitimate face out and bargaining power at the table. It's a step that we need to take, that we need to know. From Esquerra we wanted to be the most useful tool at the time of incorporating ourselves into independence, we have always tried to grow the movement and introduce independence where it had not yet arrived. Now we want to stay together, and we are generous and patient with those who are just arriving, and we are, because we know firsthand – and we knew for many years – what it was like to be few but very convinced. I be weak and convinced and it allows you to resist, but it does not allow you to win. And we're here to win. Second. To weave great alliances to succeed in representing the great consensus of the country. We have not spoken many times: the end of repression, the right to self-determination, the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia or the republic facing the monarchy. We-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we. Third. Force the Spanish State to accept self-determination and amnesty as the only ways to resolve the conflict in Catalonia. And that's why we can mobilize people, maximize the force at the negotiating table and bring the country's big consensus to them. Bring-it a proposal endorsed for 80_percent of Catalans and that consists in giving the view to the cent_percent of the people of Catalonia. And if it is again found that it is not moving, we will accompany those who are still not convinced that independence is the only possible change. Fourth. Improve the lives of all Catalans and build the foundations of the future Catalan Republic with investments, transfers, transfers that allow us to put people at the center of public policies, and build a free, clean and just country model. Rule and rule well. Apply Republican policies to strengthen institutions and transform the country. And five. To weave international alliances to explain the Catalan cause to the world, to be understood, and to forge the supports that must allow us to advance in the future. It is, therefore, the time to start a new stage. It's time to get the initiative back. It's time to work towards a strategy that allows us to look at the future, that allows us to look at the ultimate goal. A strategy that combines the role of institutions with the mobilization of our people that many times we have seen. A strategy that concentrates all resources on the ground where the republican forces are more effective, that of democracy and that of the polls. Let's keep going, and let's keep going. We weave broad alliances, both inside and outside, both internally and internationally. We work for the people, we work for all the people. President, what they want to do to him is unacceptable, but we cannot accept that by inaction we hand over the institution another time to the oppressors. Together – together – we can save the institution, recover the illusion, realize an independence that today is already inevitable. Let's start a new way, this way wide where there's everybody going to independence. We're over 50 per cent. Prepare them better. Let's go back to it another time and win definitively. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.16.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, in this case, Deputy Albert Batet spoke on behalf of Junts per Catalunya. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.17.0	Many honourable President of Parliament, many honourable President of the Generality, advisers, advisers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, we live in a situation of extreme complexity. For a band, we have to face the pandemic caused by the coronavirus and which has enormous economic and social consequences. On the other hand, we have to face an incessant repression on the part of the Spanish State that seems to be not cool. Therefore, from our point of view, the pandemic, with all its consequences, repression, with all its derivatives, mark and delimit the lives of Catalans and Catalans. Thus, the public representatives, deputies and deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia, we have the duty and obligation, president, in these two challenges of our society, to contribute in the measure that it is possible to make the day by day easier for the people. Allow me, however, that the advance which is the way to go that we propose from Junts to Catalonia. The pandemic requires a solvent management and repression forces us to have an intelligent confrontation. But they didn't see it as two sided, unrelated strategies. Management and confrontation are complementary, they are two lovers of the same coin. The effective and efficient management of the Generalitat de Catalunya, indefunctly, in the short, medium or long, or of any other Administration in Catalonia, involves a confrontation with the State. Without confrontation we will not have the resources that are ours and that we are close to allocating them to education, sanitation, social services, self-government, small and medium-sized enterprises, retirees, young people, research, innovation. Without confrontation we will not have all the tools or all the skills that give the ability to help the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans to guarantee a dignified life and a state of well-being. And, at the same time, without confrontation they will not respect our rights, our freedoms, our language and our culture; without confrontation they will try to surrender and to destroy us. They will eradicate us with the people, with the nation and with the country. Allow me, however, that in the first place you refer to the health, economic and social crisis that we are living because of the coronavirus. The pandemic has changed our lives for all, for all Catalans and for all Catalans; no exceptions. The first wave was the cruelest, with twelve thousand dead in Catalonia, with seventy thousand infected, with a total confinement and with a stalemate of many areas of our economy, such as trade, restoration, culture or tourism. Since a few months ago, we have been able to improve the health situation in terms of deaths, infections and hospital admissions. In fact, with an effort, in the last few weeks we have managed to lower the contagion by under the ration of u, a central objective of President Torra and the Government. The scientific shield allows..., that we have control of the risk of rebound; sense of doubt is a merit that we must seek to safeguard. So, these days that will come we are before a cruel claus. We are ahead of a decisive moment, determining – as President Torra said this morning – in the coming weeks, or we are going back or forward. We're at a crucial moment in the pandemic and we can't lower the guard. We cannot afford to take steps back into this struggle that has cost us so much effort. The next few weeks will be closed. They will share with me that we cannot back down, as some countries or some communities have made, such as the Community of Madrid. In this fight against the coronavirus we have all the duty and obligation to capitalize on the delivery and effort of health professionals, collective responsibility, civic commitment, community consciousness that has demonstrated the jointness of our society and citizenship from March to today, of which we are very proud. And in this sense it is also just to mention the ingenious work that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has done far beyond these months. President Torra took the initiative with painful and unpopular decisions, but essential to save people's lives: to put an end to educational or face-to-face activities at schools, institutes and universities; to hold bars, restaurants and shopping centres; to ask for home confinement; to confine the Conca d'Odena perimeterly, or to demand the use of the mask. And so, at this stage of emergence, President Torra also came forward with proposals to protect the most vulnerable, such as asking for a temporary settlement package, calling for a universal income, an increase in loggers, a suspension of taxes, support for the sectors most affected by the pandemic, activating extraordinary lines for the payment of loggers for families with economic difficulties overruns, delivering 34,000 devices to digital bankruptcies, delivering 150,000 currency cards to school helpers, boosting a fund of 1,000_million euros of liquidity for businesses, or activating specific aid for the sectors most affected by the crisis. They are just some of the measures that President Torra led in the health, economic and social fields, and that during the first weeks of the pandemic, with a situation of extreme emergence, therefore, he led them from the Government of the Generality. At a later stage of recovery, when the epidemiological situation had stabilized, President Torra followed a proactive and determined attitude to capture the global effects of Covid. In the health field, through the daily follow-up through the Process, he continued to take concrete measures to avoid possible resurgences, such as restrictions in certain areas of the country or the prohibition of family and social encounters of more than two people, or also to strengthen the health system at the end of the primary care plan, in which 46_millions will be allocated during this year and 125_millions during 2021. But he also took major steps to bring back some malfunctions. As an example, the change of direction in the management of residences with a transfer of competences, granted in the case of the Government, from the department of welfare to the Department of Health, or appointing Dr. Argimon as secretary of Public Health from the principle has transmitted rigour, trust and professionalism, as we share some parliamentary groups here today in the chamber. At the same time, at this stage of recovery, President Torra promoted the Commission for Economic Reactivation and Social Protection, known as « Coreco, and later approved a plan in more than 30,000_million euros and consisting of twenty major projects in the following areas: economy serving people, digitisation, knowledge society and energy transition. And so, President Torra set aside the Catalonia 2022 strategy – which today also comes as a reference – to draw as the post-pandemic Catalonia, with the leadership of a number of experts from different disciplines and backgrounds. In its conjunction, these actions are only a small exhibition of the dedication and perseverance of the President of the Generality and his Government's conjunction in managing the pandemic and its economic and social consequences. President Torra made a detailed rest in his speech. Just to finish this list, I would like to mention the completion of the September operation to ensure the return to work – of those lucky to have it – and the start of the school year for many families, and also for many children. We have located the educational centres as secure spaces, with an investment of 370_million euros for more than 80,000 new contracts between teaching staff and support staff, and the inn of more than half a million massive texts to schools and institutes during the next two months. The government continues to pay attention to and act on all sensitivities and all problems that arise in the day-to-day life. Yesterday, the company councillor was gathered at Baix Penedès, Arboç, with the company committee to find solutions to the challenge presented by the president around, therefore, the industrialization of the country's regions and fabric throughout this area. And that shows this sensitivity of the government that I kept in any of the aspects that might be there. In short, President Torra has devoted himself and herself to safeguarding the state of welfare, to ensuring economic recovery, his management has been remarkable, and we do not call it just ourselves, but it is also the perception of the citizens. The percentage of Catalans and Catalans who approve of the administration of the Government of the Generality has risen eight points and a half in the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic. I said the last question from the Center for Opinion Studies. We want to thank you again, President, for your dedication and dedication. We know that the skin has been left behind, that it has prioritized the country and the people around the world from any other derivative. He's done it in his entire term and in his entire term of office. He has acted in advance, diligently, proactively and taking tough and courageous decisions, always thinking of all and every 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans, think what they think, vote what they vote and viscose where they viscose. In short, President Torra has been the president of all Catalans and of all Catalans, as has the government of all. It is part of the tradition of political Catalanism and independence. It's inclusive. To understand that government and government action is for the society as a whole, and the progress is to benefit all Catalans and all Catalans. An attitude that contrasts, in a very different way, and notably, with the role of the government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who acted late and poorly, with an irrefutable desire to take advantage of the situation of urgency to strengthen the unity of Spain, the best united. The refocusing of skills complicated and encouraged the health response, and limited the Generality's capacity for initiative. You must remember that the purchase of sanitary supplies was the most striking example. In this sense, the refocusing of skills was an application of the 155 covered sanitary during the application of the state of alarm. The coronavirus crisis has served to show that the autonomic model is exhausted. Catalonia is connected with hands and feet, with little decision-making power in many areas and without the possibility of managing our resources. Of the different petitions made by President Torra, the State has given up some clearly to the calaix, making no mention of it: the paid permissions for the parents and mothers who have children in quarantine; the increase in the objective of the deficit demanded, which is a minimum of 1_per_cent, which set out 2,000_million euros directly to social policies and policies addressed to the people of the Generality of Catalonia; or a fair distribution of the European funds that do not miss Catalonia and pass what happens always, that who leaves and leaves stays with the best part. There are some other gestures that have trigated months to execute them, other petitions that the president has made that have taken months to execute them, such as the issue of the vital minimum wage, which also went late and badly, which they pulled forward three_months later; as is the suspension of the rule of spending of the assemblies, which they announced yesterday, after a revolution of the whole local world, but when what they would have to do, apart from withdrawing the rule of spending, is to repeal the LRSAL. They don't do that either. It is obvious, therefore, that if Catalonia had all the competitions, it would have acted differently. As we can also say, with all of you and all of you, Catalonia would have handled the pandemic differently if it had all its resources at its disposal. We are dealing with an endemic tax deficit, as is also a social deficit that represents the 14,000_million euros per year that go in and do not return; a fiscal deficit that adds up to a crippling lacks strategic investments for economic and business activity and unacceptable infra-financing of services that are assumed in equal shares between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State, for example, the whole law of dependency. Even Mr.Iceta pointed out that there was a possibility – I looked up at the subject – that "clearly, like you are a president who wants to confront it, so I already warn you that there will be no better funding system. These are the forms of functioning of the Spanish State and socialism at a time of greatest need as we now have, right? We are very demanding with the Generality, very demanding with petitions, very demanding with all the places where the Generality cannot arrive in the situation of pandemics and coronaviruses, but we forget that who has the machine to shut down, who has the box, and who has the resources, and who decides to mediate the BOE and the Council of Ministers to which they can be assigned, they are themselves, when they rule from Madrid. In short, we have a state that goes against us, that deprives us of a major state of welfare and progress to 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans, that in accounts of making us advance, makes us back. And we can't afford that. We've got to say enough. Therefore, I insist that the effective and efficient management of the Government of the Government of Catalonia inevitably involves a confrontation with the State. Experience shows that without confrontation it is not possible to manage or defend the interests of Catalonia, because the imposed state, does not listen and always lack our country. Therefore, the responsibility, today, implies a confrontation with the State; managing with solvency implies confrontation. And in this sense, President, confrontation must also be used to deal with a huge democratic crisis we are experiencing. This is the second question of substance, as I said to the initiator of my intervention, that we would like to address. We have already seen that the Spanish State is prepared for everything, it has shown it without contemplation, in order to try to save the 78's regime; a 78's regime that is sinking and that during these three years it has been in crisis as it had never been before. The current structures of the State are acute and do not have possible lifeguards. It's fixed that even a head of state like Joan Carles I has to go. For this reason, let us continue with a repression that is more active than ever, with the possible disqualification of President Torra – later on I will mention it – a repression that squanders all our freedoms and our rights. It should be recalled that, from the outset of the proceedings, the State exercises a general case against independence and that, as a summary, it mentions a number of cases: the brutal war against Xavier Trias to prevent Barcelona from having an independent mayor; the disqualifications and subsequent convictions of the President's Court of Auditors, Joana Ortega, Francesc Homs, Irene Rigau for the organisation of 9 November; the police rape against 2_million Catalans and Catalans who were going to vote against the ruling of these political prisoners; the conviction of more than one hundred years' imprisonment against the political prisoners who committed a crime, put forward a complaint against demonstrators who protested against the ruling of these prisoners; the verdict of the European Parliament against the political prisoners who committed a criminal offence, put forward a complaint against them. Up to a total of 2,850 reprisals and reprisals, such as Omnium on Diada Day. The repression of the State is incessant and to this list of repression, we have to add what has happened, of repression, this legislature here in the Parliament of Catalonia not respecting the result of the elections of 21 December 2017. Not respecting the votes of Catalans and Catalans is not respecting democracy. It prevented the investiture of President Puigdemont; it did not allow the investiture of Jordi Sànchez; Councillor Turull, at the midpoint of the investiture, gets arrested because he is not president. Moreover, he suspended the actions of the Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament in exile and of you, President; he was also suspended from the minutes of the Member. And in case we didn't have enough, now they want to disable him to defend freedom of speech. President Torra, you have us at your side. It's got all our support. He may be the third president of the Generalitat de Catalunya in the last two years that would be set aside for Spanish justice. The third in two years, totally unacceptable. It would be wise for a world-wide pandemic with devastating economic and social consequences to be incapacitated by a president of the Government of Catalonia. In short, it would be the finding that the State is more concerned to curb independence than to stop the pandemic. They want to disable the sovereignty of our institutions. They want to disable our democracy. They want to execute another coup a coup d'état against Catalonia. And we can't let them. And from the state, and from the current government, which is theoretically the most progressive government in history, how will they explain to Europe that they want to disable a president of the Generality for a banner that puts the word 'freedom' on it? Is it that he doesn't look ashamed of them? Nor to the Members who support the government of Mr Pedro Sánchez and Mr Pablo Iglesias? We already understand that no, that will not be so, because the difference between the government of Mariano Rajoy and the government of Pedro Sánchez tends to zero. As much riding, as much riding, Isabel and Fernando. Perhaps the PP and the PSOE share the conviction that authoritarianism and aggressiveness and repression is the formula to deactivate the Catalan society's majority yearning for the exercise of the right to self-determination and to build an independent Catalonia in the form of a republic. I believe that the example of prisoners and exiles is the best example to make it clear that it is more than reality. Obviously his harsh aggression has left us wounded. Of course we didn't get away with it, they hurt us. Anyway, maybe we've been disoriented. But we are still where we are, with our convictions intact and determined to achieve our country's independence. That no one doubted it, we won't give up. In this sense, we consider that the only possible, realistic and transitable path, which does not mean quick, simple or easy, is intelligent confrontation. We have no alternative before a state that exercises repression without contemplation, that ever since the beginning of the process has done nothing more constructive than resolve the political conflict in Catalonia in the way that solved it. It's the State, the first one to sort out the confrontation. Against what may have been announced today and intended to insinuate to Mr. Miquel Iceta, who asks respect, "you must respect... Escort'm– Escort'm–, you are responsible for the current situation. It is the State that sends the Civil Guard on October 1. It's you who approve the 155. You're the ones who stop a government and take it to the National Court, take them out and put them in jail. It is you who do not let the Presidents of the Generality invest. It's you and your attorney's office that the President of the Generality has to be disqualified. It's you... it's you who start this confrontation. And before that, what alternative do we have? Or confrontation or yield. Don't leave us another one. The State leaves no room for the middle way, there is no third possible way. And they obviously don't conceive of confrontation the same way. We don't see it the same as the State, the State uses violence, justice, patriotic justice, patriotic police. We, escort, democracy, votes and intelligence. At this time, intelligent confrontation is the only strategy that has allowed us to add more independence and internationalize our cause. October 1 was the maximum exponent. As are the judicial victories in exile. We have seen, this very August, as Belgian justice has rejected the extradition of Councillor Puig and has ruled that the Supreme Court was not the competent body. But we have also seen it in Germany, in Scotland, in Switzerland, among many others, or the victory that they had with the electoral board for what it does for the candidacy of the European elections. And how do we follow this intelligent confrontation? So with unity. And, if I may, we, Junts per Catalunya, will not give away the headlines that some unionists may want. And how do we share this strategy of the future? Home, then, if we share the costs of repression, they will share with me what we also have to share the strategy of the future. Independence parties are allies. And we have to work with that. And that's how we get together for Catalonia. Because we have a common goal, which is Catalonia's independence. And we all need each other. They can't spare anyone. There's plenty of independence, because we're all needed. We have a duty to hear from each other. No toilets. Respectfully. We must unite and foster this unity to go together and serve all the instruments they use to go against Catalonia, ourselves, to go in favor of Catalonia. The unit compromises us and forces us all, and makes us invincible. Because, that no one doubts, without unity has not released it. And the unity of independence cannot be built only by an electoral date. We need to agree on what, what's the point and how it gets done. Then they'll come back with the likes and the whens. To agree an election date cannot be the solution that deserves independence, nor the country, for a possible disqualification of President Torra. I'm done. A lot of you, I think, expect, but sometimes they're surprised, they've called for elections, right? They coincide, don't they? Mr. Iceta, Mrs. Albiach, different parties. They called elections. Well, last week in the Parliament of Catalonia, he voted a motion on the elections. And he's lost. The PSC presented a motion that said "we want elections to be made and the motion was lost. Mr. Iceta who asks that he is fulfilling the agreements of the Parliament of Catalonia..., man, so, this one spent last week, huh? We're not talking about half a year ago, just last week. I would say three things to the parliamentary groups. The first one. I'm escorting the street. I'm listening to the people. People don't ask for elections. People are asking for solutions. People ask for solutions to push their business forward, to be able to find work, to be able to guarantee family unity and to be able to pull forward the family and children, to be able to pull forward, so, and recover work places, that we are in a situation of pandemic; to be able to have all the peace and security because it is possible to pull forward all the guarantees to the schools. The second aspect. Sit, please, sit what is really a priority, place the emergence and urgency for any other interest, as does the President of the Generality and as they do in the case of the Government. I remember that the first few months of the pandemic with this spirit permeated this hemisphere. And his words, of the deputies and of the presidents, when they intervened in this sense they were with this spirit of being aware of the emergency situation and emergence that is in this sense. I invite them to recover this attitude, because the virus has not gone, because there are people who are dying. There are measures that must continue to be taken. There are autonomous communities that are very bad. And in Catalonia, thanks to a good management, so, listen, we're better. Okay. But we have to pull forward, don't we? And finally, I don't give by any means the disqualification of President Torra. It seems to me that Mr. Carrizosa, who is not here now, already said goodbye to him. Home, I hope that Spain still exists separation of powers. I don't give by any means the disqualification of President Torra. Because he has not committed any crime; he has only defended a fundamental right, which is freedom of expression. And let's hope that the Spanish State has two sayings on the front and does not disable a president of the Generality, who is a pandemic, who has dedicated himself day and night during the last six months to fighting the health, economic and social crisis. I conclude, President, by reiterating all the support of our parliamentary group and knowing that you, for the days you will be coming, will always act in the interest of the country before the interest of the part. This has been his way of acting throughout his mandate; I think he has seen himself in a very clear way during this pandemic situation, and I am convinced that in the decisions to come the next few days you will continue to act with these values. Always the country in front of everything. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.18.0	Thank you, Congressman. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.19.0	All right, let's resume the session. The statements of the representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups were completed, and the President of the Generality, Mr Quim Torra, spoke again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.20.0	Everybody's late again. Thank you very much. I'll answer them all together. I have made an effort for almost two hours in a very detailed way to enter both the government action before the Covid as in concrete of the Covid. And the truth is that I have to tell you that I was generally surprised by the little interest that the Cambra groups have generally shown in wanting to analyze this government action. It seems that most of you are more concerned about other things than precisely what you're worried about today's Catalonian city, which is how we're managing the pandemic and who we're dealing with. That said, I will enter in a more concrete way, and then I will also make a more general comment. To the Ciutadans Group: I spoke to you, Mr Carrizosa, that I had not spoken about the future, which had focused very much on the past management. Home, I think we talked – and I want to put it in value – because we managed to take on a very difficult time, in July, social concert with the social dialogue concert. Listen to me, with the two employers, the two most important unions in the country, the Accord of bases of economic revival and social protection. We have an approved plan for the government where all the government's economic team, led by the vice president, worked out the criteria with which we are already awarding the 30,000_million euros we are asking for and which we believe are close to very concrete parties. The two significant entities – the Third Sector Table and the confederation – we signed the document of the Social Catalonia representing 4,200 entities of the third sector to establish also the bases of what is to be the social protection of our country. I've already told you that you've given the group of experts we've appointed for the issue of health to deliver to us a document with which the dialog will start with all of you. Catalonia 2022, at the end of this month, will also explain to us how they are already beginning to profile what they see as the post-Covid Catalonia of the year 22. I think we've prepared very well and talked about the future. So, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to point out the discrepancy here. Then, you've entered the usual themes, let's say the greatest hits you ever talk about Ciutadans, which is a little bit the theme chiringuitos, etcetera. Well, say one thing, it's "End your single in Catalonia and Spain." Indeed, for any independentist the thing always ends here, but it is that it begins in Europe. We already know that we will never find justice in Spain, we know that. It is that justice finds it in Europe, it would only be missing. I'd just miss it. So, on the contrary. Another battle will begin in Europe. I also have to say that on the subject of "dissident harassment and persecution of the dissident, etc., I do not know whether you want me to say five of you – of the constitutionalists – are in prison or exile, so I will like it there, and I will certainly sympathize with them. Which of you should go every day to the court to testify? They will also have my solidarity. You said that you, in concrete terms, have rejected some threats. Do you know how many death threats I've rejected? Or President Puigdemont? So, we're going to do it on a And while you know what's going on in this country? That the fascists in Blanquerna were demonstrating the other day in front of the delegation of Catalonia to Madrid with total impunity. These have not entered the prison. [[Greetings.]] I, last but not least: « to Mr Torra, goodbye. No, man, no, Mr. Carrizosa. I hope we'll see each other again. I know you started this process. It's worth knowing, too, isn't it? As the demand for the banner begins. So thanks to a demand from Ciutadans. Indeed, what you said was that we have taken the piece. It's gotta be me, the piece. In any case you started the lawsuit, but for what I know the lawsuit is only for disqualification. Go ahead, I suppose you should also forget to ask for jail time, but in principle I only go to a trial for disqualification. I'm not worried, I'm going back to Barcelona. So I'm sure we'll see each other again for Catalonia. To Mr. Iceta, who in some things and I would like to thank him, for example, that on the subject of my health care provider, this structural reform of the health care system that seems vital to me has shown this understanding and this willingness to reach an agreement. I think it would be good, too, if I may, and I would like to ask the rest of the groups if you, too, now, on this occasion, join this initiative. But there are many things in which – as you can imagine – you and I disagree in an absolutely blunt way. You've made a lot of reference to the 2020 generation. "The generation of 2020 Mr. Torra said, Mr. Torra said... Is it clear that it seems to you that by September 2020 we are like the generation of 2020? It seems to you that this epidemic that caused 13,000 deaths in Catalonia – 50,000 deaths in Spain – places us at the same point as we were in the generation of 2020? I don't think he's changed everything. Who doesn't agree that the Covid has changed it all is that he doesn't know in which country he lives. You say that the line of confrontation is not the line that should follow Catalonia. I want to remind him that who is confronted is the State with Catalonia or with the independenceists. But go on, listen to me, I'll take them, come on. Let's see how we get out of this. There's a majority in the Spanish Parliament to launch an amnesty law, so why don't they introduce it? This could be done immediately – immediately. Why don't you introduce her, if you want to end the political conflict in Catalonia? Where is the order of the day of the dialog table that expressly encloses the exercise of the right to self-determination, therefore, referring to conditions and amnesty? Where's this order of the day? I've never seen it on paper. It happens with some resolutions from here, from Parliament, which you talk about, but then it turns out that there are no companies. So, listen'm, to the dial table, no problem, but with an order of the day. We want to see this order of the day. No problem. That's what I told President Sánchez: "No problem, send us the order of the day. No, no, the day won't be a problem. But I feel like I'm saying them, I feel like I'm saying them in this government: nothing has changed in new months – nothing has changed – but if we're the same where we were. Really, say 'nothing respects the political conflict in Catalonia that has really changed. What are we not going to jutjats anymore? Or do we still not have people in prison and exile? Say something that's changed. Because, you, I'm sorry, and the PSC, became the great advocate of the establishment; the great advocate of the status quo. You're functioning as a conservative force now. They're... they're part of the big conservative sector, so they're old for the interests of the establishment and the status quo. I was told that I had not gone to the meeting in La Rioja: no, I did not go there, and I think that, besides, I will never be found to bleach the figure of the monarchy, ever. And then, that meeting in La Rioja, it was exactly for that. It was no use, that meeting of La Rioja, of another band, because in the next meeting we had as presidents we were exactly at the same point of La Rioja, explained to us the same, President Sánchez, that the day of La Rioja, exactly the same. Therefore, to me to whiten corrupt monarchies will not find me. He also referred to us acting with party figures. Miri, I'm not a party player, from the start – I'm not a party player. Second, I think who's doing the party card, in a big operation, and we see it every day, but if every day they turn out that if you spy, that if..., there's everything. Who makes these calculations is the State, a state that, moreover, wants independence to be a mess, wants us to confront each other, and will not achieve it – will not achieve it. As far as I'm concerned, he won't make it. We won't mess with each other. And, besides, I think that I'm the best card I can present to you is the management of the pandemic. Because if someone comes to tell me that we've done any partying or managed for some or others, listen to me, we'll spend the hours we need to beat these arguments. Because the whole government left it to work against the pandemic. We worked for the Catalans, for the Catalans' set_million_i_mig. Finally, you talk about the process and the great lie. All right, if it was still a big lie, then why is Lledoners or exile a reality? – why is Lledoners or exile a reality? Why, listen to me, because if you want to talk about lies, we're talking about the Spanish transition lie. Are we talking about the 78 rule lie? Are we talking about the Spanish democracy lie? Let's talk about these lies. And, finally, you asked me for elections, Mr. Iceta. Look, I don't know... Fem, I don't know... I, my experience, what happens to me... Ask the parents and the seas who are bringing their children to school if their great concern are now the elections in Catalonia; ask the locals who have remained without subsidies if their great concern are the elections in Catalonia; ask the shops that have closed if their great concern are the elections in Catalonia; ask the people who are working at the hospitals in Catalonia if their great concern are the elections in Catalonia; ask the teachers who are starting the course if their great concern are the elections in Catalonia; ask all those who are not taking the ERT or who are the most vital ingredient you see when they are cooking, if their great concern are the elections in Catalonia; ask all those who are not taking the ERT or who are the most vital ingredient you know when they are cooking, if their great concern are the elections in Catalonia alone. But what impression do you think all these people, the Catalan citizen, will have, see this debate? See to what point, when we've been two hours talking about the government's management and the pandemic's management, listen, here most groups turn out to be talking about what stories? Honestly, I think it's worth that effort. The commons... no, really... Mrs. Albiach, that you don't bother people, on the contrary, I mean, I expect every tweet of you, every meeting of the government's control session, with that joy of knowing that I'll have a comment on your side over friendly, huh? , and the sea of pleasant. I don't know, if you'll excuse me, I guess political dialectics leads us to this, right? : that probably you might feel like I'm criticizing her, but it's that I also feel like you, god-in-law, huh? [[the timer riu]] He who criticizes me, if I may. But you made a very interesting intervention: you talked about industry, tourism, residences, education, and you put in a series of shortcomings. All right. I'll buy him some of these faults. But now, please, when you get back here, you tell me how many resources we can use to fill these gaps, all right? Why is he all right, huh? , to begin to ask us that here we make a management, that it is the one that should make this country. Because the resources we have, the resources generated by the citizens of Catalonia, the people of Catalonia generates the resources, and it is what we are asking for, simply what is ours. And just a theme – a theme – please. If of all the fears, only one..., if you succeed, you do, that the low labor for the couple the children of whom you will stay home, even if you have not resulted with a positive PCR... ; if you please, you do this, you do this favor, not only to Catalonia but to the whole of the State, you do it. Vice President Iglesias insinuated it, we had the hope that this happened. You didn't mention it before. I'd like to hear your opinion on this subject and whether or not you think it's important for the Catalonian couple. Finally, about the conflict in Catalonia, you say: « Home, a conflict like this will not be resolved in new months, right? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And why not? Why not? That there is not a majority of the Spanish Government, that there is not a majority, I forgive, of the Spanish Parliament to approve an amnesty law? Why don't you introduce her? You were running an election program. They're wearing new rules. It's just, listen, I don't blame the PP anymore, so I don't. I mean, I don't know... it's you, huh? The ones who rule? The PP doesn't rule anymore. Rather, you govern with the PP's premise, that's true – that's true. And respect the disqualification, I thank him for his solidarity, which I said was a serious issue, but – it's that you always have one, right? ... He says: "No, it is a serious issue, but we should never have gotten here. And until we get there? What is it that we do not have to defend the fundamental rights in this country and assume the consequences? What don't we have to get here? And you say, "No, it's you, total, there were a few hours... Listen to me, I got the moves to remove the banner, huh? Because I disobeyed, and on the 23rd I return to have another trial for the same. And so did the moves to remove the banner. No, it wasn't that the president here disobeys a few hours and now removes the banner, was it, huh? Therefore, listen to me, this" being of the left, but to me it is absolutely disconcerted. At Barcelona City Hall, listen to me, there are a lot of lefts, but..., we deal with Mr Valls and Ciutadans and say: "Fuck! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Dius, in Madrid: "No, we are very Republicans, but...... we call when the Emeritus king escapes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, they do, yes, because they follow the government and if you're against it, you'll get out of this government. On the historical memory we have to change what, I don't know how many, he says, but we won't apologize for the collapse of President Companies. So I asked Vice President Iglesias, I asked Vice President Iglesias, I apologize, on behalf of the Spanish Government. That is enough for me, to ask, on behalf of the Spanish State, to apologize for the collapse of President Companies. Listen to me, you're from "yes you can, but..., you can't. So, look, we do believe that it is possible and that it is necessary to defend the fundamental rights until the last consequences. And today it is precisely public that the United Nations re-signify Spain for political prisoners. Another report, the annual report of the Arbitrary Detention Task Force, notes the non-implementation of the recommendations formulated in 2019; the United Nations, another time... Porten nou_mesos. Do you want to face the Catalan conflict once and for all? And lastly, look, that's what I'm sorry about. Says: "Do not govern for the common people. And who do we govern for, then? That we don't govern for the whole city, for the set of Catalans? I don't know. To Mr. Fernández, to PP. Look, you've made a speech with so many misconceptions that I, the truth, couldn't choose who the misconception was... better. I don't know, because it's been a speech absolutely, if you'll excuse me, the re-record you've been wearing since the first day. « The fanatical nature... I do not know, honestly, I think that he has not spoken of anything that we have come to speak of here today. So, if you'll excuse me, so I'm not going to comment because you simply let go of your usual speech without, in other words, staring at what we came to talk about today. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez makes a gesture of approval.]] And, finally, I go to the independenceist majority of the chamber, I mean, the CUP, Esquerra and Junts. Thank you. Thank you for your personal support. Thank you. I know that tomorrow we'll see each other in Madrid and today I want to thank you so much. Thanks also for the support you've always given to the government at very difficult times; it hasn't been easy. And, in this sense, especially these days of the pandemic, the truth is that thanks for all the support that has always been given from Esquerra, from Juntes, to all the members of the Government of Catalonia. Thanks also for the reviews that the CUP does, I think these reviews help us to improve. Mirin. I trust you. I trust that we will take back the wire from the strategic unit to complete the process towards independence. They'll never find me in any match fight, ever. My only dispute is with the Spanish State. They'll never find me doing toilets, ever. My only toilet is against the Spanish State. I think that's what people are asking us. I think that the people want this to be a tipping point, so that they can take the necessary momentum, to make the jump that this country needs, because we have a big challenge, which is to culminate in independence. I will always be on the side of those who really want to culminate in independence. So here I am, according to you, but you will never find me in any dispute between us. On the contrary, I hope, I hope that, knowing the formula, that the formula was the First of October and the formula was: institutions, were entities and citizens, all together, all folds, another time, we take this unit back and this time, yes, all together, with all strength, we continue to take this country to the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.21.0	Thank you, President. Now the parliamentary groups will speak again and the first to do so, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, is Mr Carlos Carrizosa. Forward. They are two minutes per group; according to Rule 164, they are two minutes for the parliamentary group and five for the subgroups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.22.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Torra. Don't worry, I don't think it exhausts the ten_minutes of the reply, because you have really barely answered anything and, therefore, as little as you have answered us, I will answer you and what it takes, without rushing the minutes. Look, I was surprised to say that you are waiting for justice in Europe. Our judicial system is one of the most assured. We had the judgment of those who wanted here in this Parliament to strike against our democracy. It was public. Everyone could see how the rights of all the defendants were absolutely respected, as they had their opportunity to defend themselves. And, therefore, I, particularly as a lawyer, as a person devoted all my life to the exercise of the right and to trials and to going to court, have no doubt as to the independence of the judges. It is true that our governing bodies of the judiciary need reforms to disassociate as much as possible from the political power and so we are striving to try to change the selection of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. But the judiciary is independent. And when you point out to the judges – as I mentioned this morning by the Vice-President of this Parliament – with tweets pointing out to them by their name and surnames and saying that it is they who are going to judge you, in the same terms that you managed to harass Judge Llarena while doing the investigation, because I believe that whoever perverts, who attacks democracy, is the leader of a government, of an executive power, who attacks in this way, extorting, pointing out, accusing the worthy members of the judiciary, who know how the judiciary works, since, as I say, I have been a lawyer for more than twenty-five years in the courts. Therefore, justice is obtained in Spain and, with our judicial system, indeed, there are European bodies that can also be used, and justice will say. We, as always, Mr Torra, as always, respect the content of judicial decisions. We never criticize either for or against it. You stand out precisely because you always criticise judicial decisions that are not your liking, and because you flaunt those that do give you reason. Therefore, my concept of Spanish justice is good, and my concept of Spanish judges is good, and my concept of legal operators in Spanish justice is good. And, therefore, all my support for these judges who are harassed. I also say to you: I have referred to something very serious, which was the pressure on the officials, the pressure you put on an official in this chamber, too, so that he would be stopped because he did not do what you liked. We're in Parliament. I had a chance to answer this. He didn't answer that. I insist: the head of the executive branch in Catalonia must be scrupulous in respect for public officials. It's intolerable what you did. I blamed him, and I don't think I was the only one who blamed him. It caused shock, this, I believe, even among public servants, that the head of the administration in Catalonia was able to request the cessation of an official who has complied with the law, and you have also not mentioned that. And he has dispatched, I also say, the death threats on the part of a lord, well..., I prefer to classify those as threats, simply, of a bad diffuse, but of an evil of a lord founder of Terra Lliure. You have compared them to hooliganism in networks that, of course, whenever they involve death threats are reprehensible. I condemn all the death threats you are subjected to, whether by networks or personally; I condemn any form of violence, I condemn violent pressure and coercion against anyone for political motivations. You, Mr. Torra, have not been able to do that. And you, in order to put an end to this, Mr Torra, have told me that constitutionalists do not suffer judicial repression, they do not have to go to the courts. Yes, yes, Mr Torra, constitutionalists also suffer from having to go to the courts to testify and are convicted. Do you know when? When they commit a crime. [[Some applause.]] Like you, you, be separatists or constitutionalists, if you commit a crime you can be tried and convicted. If Ms. Laura Borràs gives public contracts to her friend, she may be convicted, Mr. Torra, and if she were a member of a constitutionalist government, that woman who perverts the rules of public procurement would also be tried and would also be convicted. Or haven't you condemned PP people in Spain, Mr. Torra? Or have they not condemned people of the Socialist Party in Spain, Mr Torra? Well, then, please be a little more..., less..., be a little more truthful in your manifestations, get a little closer to reality, because many Catalans are sick of hearing lies from our leaders. We would like you to tell the truth when you speak; we would like you to take responsibility for your government work and not blame Madrid, the black hole in Madrid, for everything. You have had exactly the same speech here today as the North League in Italy. [[Some applause.]] You... Your speech, Mr. Torra, has only the support in Europe – you alluding to Europe – of the far-right Flemish, and of some groups of the far-right European. Yes, Mr. Torra, you have the support here and you do, Mr. Batet, you know, you have the support of the best 2-million people in Catalonia, but you have, unfortunately, the vast majority of Catalans worried because you, from that artificial majority you get with an electoral law that gives priority to voting in the nationalist areas of Catalonia, which are not all – which are not all – because, unfortunately, you take advantage of this circumstance and that is why you come to believe your own lies. I believe that, Mr Torra, in this general policy debate this year, which is already your last, we do not have much more to say to us; just reiterate what my party said yesterday at the press conference: we do not want to be the toy, the puppets of its political designs. We do not want the institutions of Catalonia to paralyze because you decide that independence does not have to appoint a president of the Generalitat. We are going to consult with the parliamentary forces so that you, with your thirty-four Members, cannot condition the parliamentary life of this institution, which is the Parliament of Catalonia, with 135 Members, and that you make the Presidency of the Generalitat serve as a blocking tool for obtaining, for months and months, a government in office. I am convinced that most of this Parliament will defend the dignity of the institutions, and I am convinced that we will come to ways in which you and Mr Puigdemont, from your large minority, can succeed in paralysing the institutions of Catalonia. That's what we're going to apply to. Parliament must make use of the legal mechanisms that the law provides for us to have a President of the Generalitat after you. If the sanitary conditions do not allow it, you do not want to call an election, which would be the normal mechanism to replace it, there are legal mechanisms for the end of Catalonia to have a president of the Generalitat elected by the legal channels, and that you cannot prevent the appointment of a president of the Generalitat for the case, of course, more than likely, unfortunately, that you will be disqualified. To finish, twenty-three seconds. Yes, Mr. Torra, it was we who made you have to choose between law enforcement or non-compliance and drag the consequences before the courts. You, you and we didn't choose not to comply with the law. That is why you are now facing the courts, as would any neighbor's child who as you is not above any other citizen and must comply with the laws as well. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. I am now returning to Mr Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.24.0	Thank you, President. I will try to talk from the things you said with reference to my intervention. A first one that you said, but it is that I want to subrate: against the pandemic, total willingness to collaborate, to agree, to work. For the health pact, he was totally willing to establish it and including accepting, before knowing it, the setting up that the group of experts makes, dilluns. You started the criticisms or, finally, the disagreements about my intervention said: "We are at a very different time from the 29th generation. Effectively. Now, if we then had a divided government, now we have a very divided government. And this is the question that we are raising; not that we are not still aware of the evolution of a disease and the setbacks that this supposes, but, precisely, to have the best instruments to do it. And we, from our point of view, consider that his, the government that you preside over, is not the best we could have. Two. The issue of confrontation. Look, I..., was going to say the opposite, but I don't like it because someone might think I'm doing a sort of aggressive language. What returns did the confrontation have? Because I always listen to you and respectfully, and I found one. When they say, "We are more, every time we are more. But tangible gains that have affected the lives of Catalans and Catalans, with the opportunities of our country, not one. And, if you look at how you look at it, the confrontation and the dialog are very different lines, and contradictions. And, from our point of view, the least intelligent, not to mention something thicker, is that of confrontation. What do we need now? More collaboration, we need to negotiate finance, we need to negotiate investments, we need to attract funded projects with European foundations. That's what we need. And for that, what do we need? A dialog produced between the two governments. Third or fourth theme you have dealt with, table for the dialog. Listen, every one of you puts the points in the order of the day you want. If – pardon the expression – the grace of the dialog table is that there was no pre-limitation of themes. Now you don't say exactly that, you say: "No, and that gives me more reason. No, that's not a dialect anymore. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You can talk... no, but I'll take care of it. Here's the thing: Is it talking or not? And, President, I may be wrong, but it gave you the feeling that who had less confidence, hopes had a willingness to make this meeting was you. And it doesn't seem like it's just me. You say: "Something has changed. Home, among other things have a government of Spain that is willing to speak, and bilaterally and, moreover, open. So, man, if it looks a little... And I think about it, like we all pull questions and sometimes, well, we kind of love them, don't we? But you're asking a question today about whether people consider that the PSOE and United Government We can be the same as the PP Government, and people say no. I'm sure they're saying yes, aren't they? I'm referring most of the time. You say: "I did not go to La Rioja to whitewash the monarchy. That is to say, everyone who went there went to whitewash the monarchy – the president of the Basque government included. Sometimes, and I say it with respect, but with this little sneezing that sometimes spent, it looks like the one where all the cars are against direction and thinks that the wrong ones are all the others. We already know that there are not very profitable meetings, that there are meetings that do not come to realize as much as we would like, but the dynamics of dialogue, approximation of positions and mutual empathy is very important. We can't skip it. And that's why I take this opportunity to say it: I was very pleased that you put your willingness on the table to work with all the autonomous communities and, even so, he said, to share something that we may not have done well because the mistake was gone. This is the hope that we understand that it would be useful. You gave me a little or enough when you said, "Oh, that's a lie about the process. Listen, who said it was a lighthouse wasn't me. Who came out just a few days ago: "We had no hope of any international recognition was not me. Therefore, I quote given arguments for people who think very differently, people who have been linked to this process. If there was no hope... he came to say «we had nothing prepared. Leaders of the government of abroad. Home... And, therefore, you don't cheat on us with this. As with this, the other thing you say: "Go down the street, ask the people. You'll see how the only people who don't care are the choices, they worry about other things. Yeah, but we're serious. I'm also worried about the pandemic, and that's why I want a better government, to fight the pandemic. I'm worried about disinvestment, and that's why I want a better government to attract investments and keep them. Another thing is that we can legitimately argue that you think I'm wrong and that the government that I would do would be worse. That's legitimate. Now, let us not say to ourselves that the quality of the instruments we use to deal with the problems we face does not matter. And we think the margin of improvement is a lot. Another question we won't agree on. The problem is not elections or not elections. I congratulated him, and I will do it again, for not having made this debate a species of avant-matx that I can pass tomorrow. And, therefore, I don't want to speculate about what you're going to be going through tomorrow either. But I will say to him – and he was the object of my question to the last session of control –: to extend unnecessarily a presidency in function seems wrong to me. In the case I can donate, it seems wrong. Precisely, because we have the problems we have, because we want a government that is in full power and a president that is in full power, unnecessarily extending a presidency in function does not seem adequate to us. We can respect what they think in another way, but we think there are some strong arguments for this. It's very different from two months to four, with which it's falling. You say: "No, you are conservative. Miri, I don't know, if you think so, it's your opinion and I naturally respect it. Now, respect the law, respect the institutions, respect the adversaries, make reforms to improve from broad agreements and without generating false expectations, if that is to be conservative, I in soc. And then concrete fears came out, because you tell us, "Home, we've done a lot of things. Home, I'd miss more. When a budget of EUR 46,000_million and 250,000 public workers is available, it is logical to do things. Now, we have to tell you, we haven't come back to a situation that looks like 2010. I would like to give you some example: in industrial polygons, the year 2010 there were 165_million euros, in the assumption of enguany 51. To Education, still the year 2010 is dedicated 3,267 million euros more than today. Dependency, so we're at home, we're worse off in all of Spain with waiting lists. What do you want me to say? You'll tell me, and I'd be right to say, "Listen, the law of dependence is poorly funded and this will have to be reconsidered. You're right. But what I am obliged to do, because I know the opposition, is to point out the shortcomings of his government, because the problems of the infra-financing of dependence or difficulties of financing of the autonomous communities are all of them. It is true that he can say some more than others. But I always find a comparison with Valence, with which we share deficits and problems, and sometimes they do things better than we do. On the subject of tax fraud. Miri, we won't agree. We believe that we believe in the risk numbers that I know of the Generality, so it is not the dimensions that you are talking about. But what is clear is that you, in the best of finance, have not devoted yourselves to it. It wasn't his priority. They didn't dedicate themselves to it. I'm telling you, if I get to be president of the Generalitat, it's probably this, if it's not the first, it would be the second of my obsessions. Tell him, on the judicial issues, because you said, "No, it's that Lledoners is a reality, the people outside of Spain are a reality and, therefore, this is real. Effectively. It's that here we have a question that we won't agree on, but that's why we don't stop giving our arguments. We were sure to be the ones who warned the most about the risks of illegality, that's what it was. It is true that some illegalities may have translated with the summons of a reference, with the declaration of independence, and others, the maintenance of a banner and, therefore, also the penalties will be very, very different if they are produced or confirmed. But there is one question, which you say: "The State does. Look, the State is not a person, it's not the phone we can call, it's a set of organizations and powers. And you've had – I don't like to talk..., in short – the decision to contradict decisions of an electoral board. He has been sentenced for the High Court of Catalonia. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] In the exercise of his rights he has filed an appeal before the Supreme, who tomorrow understands the question. Therefore, they do not do to the other responsible for the consequences of their actions. President, I'm sure we'll keep seeing each other, and I'm sure we'll keep having a desire to make a better country. But I'm telling you, to make a better country, we have to make it between all of us, and we all have to fit in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya In Comú Puem, has the words of the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.26.0	Well, thank you, President, and good afternoon to all of you. President, this morning I said in my intervention that today you had made a speech so without so much symbolism that you are accustomed to, without mass gesticulation and, even so, with a confrontation that I would say that we could have seen – I tell you – moderate in comparison with the interventions that you do on other occasions. But I also told him that we had our suspicions, our mistrusts, that a flower is not summery, and that it could be a mirage. And I think with the line you made this late, so somehow the suspicions we had were confirmed, and it was that you got to do the usual. And I think it proves that it feels more comfortable than the opposition of the central government than the president of Catalans and Catalans. I think you're in a paper that's not what he just liked. You like it better to be the head of the opposition of the central government, which I must remind you is already Pablo Married. This is the third general policy debate with you as president and, after listening to the street, listening to you, not only today, but the rest of the time that we have been carrying from this legislature, two years and waiting, after seeing also how you have managed during all these years, so I have no doubt that this general policy debate would not have been produced, or at least would not have been produced without having called before elections. We believe that elections are called after so many incomplete promises and so many frustrated expectations, and we believe that citizenship has the right to decide in which key it is, not just the fight against the pandemic, but the reconstruction necessary for Catalonia with the crisis without precedent, with the brutal crisis that we have here. And you seem to be talking about elections, so it seems frivolous to him, he thinks he's not playing right now. But, of course, I think we need to look at who was asking for elections. He called elections the Popular Party, Ciutadans, the PSC, In Comú Podemos, the CUP, Left. It is that it is asking for the whole parliamentary arch, president, from the PP to the CUP, to be elected to its governing partner. And, therefore, I believe that it is no longer a question of Comú Pueblo, it is a question that I believe that citizenship and all the parliamentary groups that are not Joints for Catalonia, therefore, consider that what sincerely does not touch is to put in the symbolism to earn time, to be able to direct the party, to campaign and to put the struggles of the independent parties to the politicians – or the non-political ones – of the government. Because while the citizenry each day has a reality that is harder, and the patience is growing exponentially. And, to me, I must also confess that what surprises me most is that his governing partner is asking for elections, but they are also saying, Together for Catalonia and Esquerra, Left and Together for Catalonia, that what they want to do the next day of elections is to repeat the same formula of coalition of disgovernment; they want to repeat exactly the same one we have now. And I don't understand this where we're going, so they want to do this thing again. They can't resuspend with the country in the same stone. From all angles, I appreciate the sincerity, because Catalans and Catalans deserve to know where they want to take us, and more in a context of so much uncertainty and so much patience. You say you want to repeat this formula of governance and I think Catalonia needs and deserves a change, a change with a government that is cohesive, a change with a government that doesn't insist on failed models like Barcelona World, that doesn't want to turn the country into a huge Airbnb; a government that pulls into a national occupation pact; a government that doesn't limit itself to reducing the impact of running away from businesses and multinationals, but instead relocates industry and eventually brings about the economic transition that the country needs; a government that believes in cooperation, in the table of the dialog – because once more you show that you don't believe in the table of the dialog – and that you also believe in a non-spaced republic. I already respond to some of the issues that you were commenting on, about the participation of all political forces in a great salvation pact, we believe that salvation is an essential pillar of any welfare system, it would only be lacking, and that it has been shown that the details had left us in an absolutely unprotected situation; already in an ordinary situation, even more in this exceptional situation. But, President, I also say this: if this pact is to maintain the socio-vergent health structures, which are the ones we have now, then I tell you that we are not there. If it's to continue the railway contractor to track the Covid cases, I'll tell him no. And, therefore, if what we really want is a national health pact that goes on to favour professionals, that goes on to increase the reversal and financing of health to 7_per_cent, that goes on to cut out externalisations and privatizations, there we will be, as we are, whenever it comes to protecting public servants. You were also talking to me about resources and how you can take the resources to tackle all the measures the country needs. So we are always the first ones to insist on claiming the historical debts that Spain has with Catalonia – let us say no problem – now, let us also, President, continue to negotiate a reform of the financing system, do not let empty falls – do not let empty falls. And I also say..., you said: "Not us, but it is the central government that is ruling under Montoro's presuppositions. I have not finished hearing what you have said; I will take it as a simple statement. What I think is that it's a drama, it's a disaster that in the situation we have right now the central government continues on some assumptions of Montoro. And if the assumptions did not pull forward, if we do not have some better assumptions, which, for example, contemplated, among other things, an increase of 60_percent of the resources for dependence, it was because parties, because political spaces like what you represent, like what Esquerra Republicana represents, dropped those assumptions. So clearly we continue to rule under Montoro's presuppositions, but because forces like you didn't have the responsibility of country we had to deal with some presuppositions for Catalonia. And we'll keep insisting and saying it a hundred times and whatever it is: the assumptions cannot be a confrontational tool or a partisan tool. And I'm done, and I'm going to say again what the central message of the day is for me, which is, we should never have gotten here. And you asked me, "What do you mean we'd never get here? So simply, President, you should have called for elections. That's what I'm saying with never getting here. But all the way, I want to insist, and don't throw the tablecloth, because I don't think we've lost everything yet, we still have time, you can still call elections before the sentence comes; you can still put the institution in front of the person and you can still put the country in front of the party. So I'll just ask him to call elections, because the country will appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, of Mr Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.28.0	Thank you, President. Well, President, let us point this out clearly and precisely: we do not ask you to call the elections before a possible disqualification – I suppose this is clear – but we propose that the date of future elections be agreed for independence, for the widest possible extent. And to the band of our vision about the need to celebrate them, the elections, and to do so as soon as possible, because of the reasons I have already explained, because we consider that this government is exhausted, blocked, because we consider it a necessary condition to be able to face and start a new independentist cycle, a new battle with the State to fight for our national and social rights, to generate the turn of one hundred and twenty degrees that the government of the Generality policy needs to deal with the challenge of the Covid and the challenge of self-determination, to the band of our vision about this need, which we do not want is that the election date is marked by the calendars that are still activated by the courts; we do not want to follow the courts and the electoral courts that operate in this country in a different way. And that's why we propose to do it together. We also proposed a mechanism for democratic and civic confrontation with the State, as Mayor Venturos did in Berga developing all the presidential functions. Another important point: we have never talked about symbolic presidency – ever. It's a terminology that someone has attributed to us and that we've never used. Let's talk about all the presidential functions carried by the signature. We do not want to paralyze the functioning of the public services of our country in this situation of great emergence that we have in front of us. Therefore, we must make compatible, for a song, the responsibility in the management of public services, in the response to the economic and social crisis, obviously, from our concept, which is different from that of the Government, but in any case, it must be faced with the full assumption of responsibilities on its part. And all this accompanied by the need for social mobilization and the independence unit in Parliament to support this strategy. We are also open, and open, to listen to other proposals on how to respond and disobey. For the time being, we haven't listened to them in a clear and precise way. We expect proposals from Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra to wander beyond electoral and party calculations and to look for mutual wear, which seems to us today, unfortunately, to be higher motivations than they would have to stop the need to respond to the crisis and face the independence challenge in this new stage that awaits us. And to end this turn of events, this country will win it on the street, fighting. It's not time for retreats, it's not time to go home. The time has come to remobilize us, to confront us in the streets and places in the State. Back in time to reject for and to dispute the territory to the State and the capital, to the ground and to the bars to the bars. Organization, struggle, popular unity and disobedience. Let's put it back, pig and pragmatism; let's put in false dialogues and no negotiating tables, where we'll just find shame, claudication and smoke; let's put the fish's autonomy back in the pit to manage misery. They want to impose misery on us with the excuse of the pandemic; they want to spread our rights with the excuse of the crisis, and this crisis we will only overcome with more social rights, more freedom, more civil rights and more political rights. This crisis will only be overcome by fighting for our national and social rights, by dividing and dignified the work, by dividing the rich with solidarity, with tones and tones of solidarity. Let us stop assuming the brutal repression of the State with political prisoners, with exiles and over more... or almost three thousand people in our country. This crisis will only be overcome by overcoming it with the Spanish State and freeing us from the gables, its Constitution and the enjoyment of its autonomous status; breaking with the monarchy and corrupt rule of 78; breaking with its elites and extractive oligarchies. Despite the uncertainty and the confusion, despite the crisis and the failure of politics and institutions, we want to make a cry to hope, to trust in the strength of the people, in the ability of the people to reorganize themselves and take the streets and places fighting for independence, against repression, against denunciations and accompaniments, against racism, male violence and to defend the territory. I'm done. We commit ourselves to it, to promote it and to participate in it, we commit ourselves to being part of the struggle and hope of the Catalan countries. Let each day be a new battle, and let us be strong, united and organized, for the new battle to gain our independence. Thank you. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. And now it's the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. When you're ready, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.30.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Torra, you say you've been unable to answer any of my intervention. Actually, it's not new. That's more than two years we're wearing as a single, as a legislature, he's never been able to respond with an intervention. And I look at what I've always been looking for – and I think I've managed to do it on this subject – being respectful of everything that's personal, trying to do political analysis, which can be shared or not, but I see that for some reason I haven't just heard, for you, it's absolutely incomprehensible, and the same intervention that you've just done over and over again, I insist, these two years. In fact, you are the first president of the Generality of History who is unable to respond to an opposition spokesman. We had José Montilla, who cost him, to the man, but I start to think that he was Demosthenes, at his side, because he always responded with education to all the spokespersons of the opposition in the terms that were needed. I see you don't have that ability. I am not to blame that I do not have the dialectic resources to deal with the reflection of a political formation that, indeed, it has had..., because it always insists on the same – I will make a final point of this issue –, that we now have four Members – the same as the CUP – but it is seen that the 185,000 people who voted for the People's Party in later autonomous elections do not deserve to be respected. That, of course, there were 286,000 in the last elections, that there are already a few more – they are a few more – and I suppose they also deserve to be respected. I, on the other hand, do see myself with color – and with all respect – to respond to any of your statements, I have always done so. As a matter of fact, I'm going to have one today, surprisingly, playing comics. You said: "The unionists will never get Esquerra and Juntes for Cat to face each other. Still out, they end up facing them and we have to separate them, that if they're not killed, it's to say that, in short, I'm glad that you have such an optimistic view of their political situation. And finally, a final reflection. Because yes, because it's finally true – Mr. Iceta has said, and... that we are human people and here, therefore, it's relationships that go beyond politics. Honestly, the deal that you have given to the People's Party of Catalonia, just because you have four deputies – the same as the CUP – I think it has been profoundly unfair and that it gives you the image that you have of Catalonia and the idea that you have of the project to govern Catalonia in the face of the future. I say this because many times, despite the fact that, in fact, in political rhetoric, the milhomas are done, after that, at the time of truth, with the apparatuses of the State, they are used to acting in a cowardly way and, in change, they do so in a particularly cruel way with a substantial part of Catalan society, those that you consider not to be up to, either because they have a bad electoral result or because you consider that ideologically they are on the sidelines of what you consider to be the political mainstream in Catalonia. I'll tell you not to undervalue us – not undervalue us – because life gives many times. And I'm always an exercise that I've done with anyone, regardless of their ideology; it's a very comforting exercise, because when people spend years changing positions, and if you're dedicated to undermining people and constantly undermining them, that always, in the end and in the end, it would have hurt you. And being able to respect us among ourselves, if not to be disgruntled, which is what you do during these two years with the People's Party, is an attitude that does not..., maybe that day you feel comfortable or feel, well, thank you, and so, listen'm, I believe that life gives many times, as I say, and respect us among ourselves believe that it is essential to build Catalonia of the future, which in the end will have to be everyone's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergi Sabrià has a turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.32.0	Thank you, President. President, let's now begin this reply by making a very sincere – very sincere – thank the Government of the Generality, to all the pleas, for the effort in managing a health, economic and social crisis as we are living; a thank you that goes from the President, who has been in charge of this management, until after the Councillors and Councillors, but also to all the public workers and to the other branches of the execution. Many, many, many thanks. A grace that we also have to extend to the whole health sector, to those heroes and heroes who have put at risk and all their personal security to help as many people as possible before this inhumane virus, a virus that is changing the world as we know it. And we can't stay with the healthcare staff either, we need to add socio-health care, care, clean staff, the primary sector, the pharmacies, the safety nets, the rubble, the transporters, the supermarket professionals, the small food stores, and a list that we would never finish and that I'm sure we'd leave someone behind, but that allows us to see another time, at our home, the best of our society. At a time of enormous difficulty the country has made pinya and the government has worked to guarantee the rights of everyone. Now we don't hang on and get old to guarantee all our rights; all, the rights to education, to demonstration, to work, to conciliation, to voting rights, among so many others. The Covid had, like all crises, an altissimo altissimo class component. We've seen all the data. They're the most precarious barrels they've ever suffered. In the end, they're the same people who suffered the most in 2008, those who support themselves now more strongly than anyone else in this 2020 crisis, despite the fact that they don't get together. That's why it's time to get old for them, not to get old for public debt, but to get old for the debt we have all over the country. To govern to transform, to be useful to the citizenry, to rethink and rebuild; to rethink to build an economy of knowledge, innovative, with the technological and the ecological revolution at the center of a society that guarantees the economic, health and vital security of everyone. Always build from the left: social rights and fair taxation; a balanced production model; more equality, more freedom. To build republicanly, with the vocation of serving the citizen, with the commitment to work for a free, fair and net Catalonia. In short, therefore, many thanks for being at the forefront of management at this very difficult time, and a lot of strength for the day they are still coming. A few brief points from different parliamentary groups. To Ciutadans, to Mr. Carrizosa. Look, you're taking him back to the president that you're fueling protests for political and democratic reasons. So maybe you don't know, but the right to manifestation is a right to use. And you, in change, learn to feed the extreme right. And we have neither the slightest doubt – nor the slightest doubt – of what we prefer; we have no doubt: to protest always before injustice, before a very harsh and unjust feeling that went against the ballot box and against democracy. That's what you're looking for, but it's normal, because they feel a lot more like bleaching, with an exquisite skill, always Vox's fascism. About the coronavirus. It doesn't make sense to talk about uniformity as a response to the pandemic. It's not homogenizing this answer because yes, without any vigour. There's no sense if we're not able to listen to those who are closest to us, those who manage from the vicinity. They make their monologues serve no purpose, Mr. Carrizosa, because the problems with which we find ourselves are different from each territory, and we can give them examples: Germany, Switzerland, where they have been left aside because those who are closest to the pandemic are the task, and they have worked. But that's so much of you. The good practices the fans urticaria, and not because they are not useful, no, just because they do not fit into their Spanish speech one and centralized. I about the hostile climate. That you spoke of hostile weather is shameful, Mr. Carrizosa. He'd make me laugh if it wasn't because he made me do it. Hostile climate? Hostile climate is Lledoners. Hostile climate is Puig de les Basses, Wad-Ras, Waterloo, Brussels, Geneva, September 20, September 23, October 1, the National Audience, the Instruction Jutjat number 13, the Bureau of Parliament, threats to treatment joints. This is hostile weather. He dares to enter the prison. I'll go with him. Let's talk about it again. We go one day and look at the eyes at Junqueras and Turull, for example, and talk about it again. And the PSC. No dialogue, no sides, no Republicans, no supporters of collapsing. They're monarchs, they're still complicit in repression, sorting out partners moving to the right, and they're not moving forward, unfortunately, with the dial. And despite that, we persist; we persist in the idea of negotiation. We'll never get up from the table. I said it in the first intervention and I repeat it now. But we can't do it indefinitely either. I looked, Mr. Iceta, to clarify concepts: here no one wants to be above the law. What we disagree with is that there are laws used to offend people, their civil rights, to offend their political and democratic rights. And that's what we always fight – always – with all our strength, always and always. I to the common. Mrs. Albiach, I don't think I can have any doubt that Esquerra thinks this trading table is very necessary. But we don't agree with the usher who did it today. It's not worth coming here and saying we don't throw the table at each other and who else is sure to follow you. Neither do we agree with the concept: either it's negotiation, the table, or it won't be. We don't want to just talk at this table. We'll never abandon the flag of the dial, we'll tell you as many times as you need. I've said it many times today. But we don't just want to talk about it. And you know that too. We want solutions, we want negotiation, we want to move forward. That the PSOE or his party in Madrid recognize the political conflict is a historic success of all, but we won't take the picture. We need solutions in a country key; national solutions, solutions in a right, freedom, republic key. We do not give up anything and know what we are going to negotiate: self-determination and amnesty; amnesty to defend this general cause, which does not stop, against independence. And, Mrs. Albiach, I think every time I explain the same, but we're waiting for them. You should be doing everything you can because all Catalans can express. Because another time you don't seem to be going to Madrid. Don't get out. Do not come here to campaign with the table for then not to defend the vast majority that support Catalonia. I didn't let yours get bigger in Madrid every time and give up what you share with an 80_percent of the company. The table is referendum. And you should be brandishing this flag and in Madrid you don't. And not here at all. And finally, and I finish, President, we're here to win the freedom of the country, to win the freedom of Catalonia, not to win between us. We have to cooperate to add, multiply to go far beyond ourselves. I've heard you say this a thousand times: do it. Joint response, strategic unit. We're picking up his glove, president. They're holding our hand. Very simple: do it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.34.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra, members of the government, deputies, deputies, well, some considerations, of the interventions of the groups. In this sense, Mr. Carrizosa, I have told you that together for Catalonia your speech every day sounds more old, older, more obsolete... that of the little boy has been heard for many years. And, of course, that you speak of chiringuites do not have much credibility, because then we see news of governments where you govern – because in Andalusia you govern, do you not? Are they in the government of Andalusia, Ciutadans? – and it turns out that there is 1_million euros in the year, the assumption of the Government of Andalusia, which is destined to pay the logue of the senior members of the Government of Ciutadans and the People's Party, and of your Government that you have. What do you have to think about housing aid when there is a government that spends 1_million euros to pay for the housing of its members of the government? Isn't that a chiringuite? Or do we have a double yard to measure, depending on whether you're in government or in opposition? It's more, until you all go here and talk, isn't it? , of the great Spanish justice, of the exemplaryity of the Spanish justice... Clear, listen'm, Article 6 of the Convention of Human Rights says that there has been a right to a fair trial. Do you know how many convictions for not guaranteeing a fair trial you've had in the last two years of the Spanish State? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Huh? Forty– forty–; up to forty Strasburg convictions saying that in Spain– in two years– there has not been a fair trial. I, miri, do not like us to go into toilets, "and you more, etcetera. I think your attitude towards the president has not been adequate, but that is personal opinion. And he went in with the majors and all folded up, didn't he? Listen to me, you won the last election of 21 December, and you're a parliamentary majority. Never had a majority of Parliament as important as its own had been so minority at the time of arriving and being able to do politics here in the Parliament of Catalonia. Because they have settled in the criticism and in the struggle and in the undersistence of the institutions and the president of the Generality of Catalonia. This is not responding to the trust attached to citizens and citizens. The citizens vote for us because we do politics, because we manage, because we have responsibility, because we are consistent. It must be the new policy, as it will be. You said goodbye, Mr. Torra. Home, goodbye to Mrs. Roldán who was made in the middle of the month of August, of amagatotis, because it is not known that they changed candidates for the presidency of the Generality elections, there is no new policy that must be and the new forms of political iron of Ciutadans in this sense. That is to say, if a "good-bye, Mr. Torra, is applied, that you are not yet sentenced, because you have not yet gone to court, yet, and there is no separation of powers, and we must see that it happened, you apply yourself home with the "good-bye, Mrs. Roldán". [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sir... yes, yes, no; as a candidate for some... yes, yes; I know it's here, yes. But it's that she was the candidate in some presidential elections voted in the primaries, and you were beaten to pose Mr. Carrizosa. I mean, this goodbye, Mrs. Roldán was through the big door, huh? God-in-law! Mr. Iceta, and the PSC, which you said was very concerned – that I was very concerned – because we would leave the government running and that, if there is a disqualification, you can leave a government running, and that's very hard because we can't...; the PSC, he said, will never agree to extend a presidency to functions that doesn't seem appropriate. Clearly, do you know who has the memory of having a presidency working in the Spanish State? Do you know how many months of presidency and days Mr. Pedro Sánchez worked, from March 2019 to the generation of 2020? More than eight months, 254 days? Clearly, you apply to Catalonia a policy that when you apply to your home... don't apply it. "No, it's that the government works very hard. Ah, and listen to me, and Mr. Pedro Sánchez made some choices that were totally unnecessary because then the first ones didn't have the will to negotiate with the Podemos, then he saw that he was obliged to negotiate with the Podemos, and that's why he took more election months. And that wasn't irresponsible, Mr. Iceta? Wasn't that totally useful, for interest's sake, having a government in place? Or isn't that useful? Do you know who won Mr. Pedro Sánchez? - For a little while, huh? It's Mr. Rajoy – that in this they do assemble – who was also in two consecutive elections and there was a little more time in election times. Therefore, apply, in this sense, the responsibility of not making partisanship and apply yourself. The lords of the commons. I understand, Mrs Albiach, that she has a difficult role, because, of course, they are in the Government of Madrid, and here they are in opposition, and they govern Barcelona, and then they make decisions, and then they ask for accounts of things from the Government that they do at the place where they govern, and that... I understand that this is complicated. Jo, poor Mrs. Albiach, sometimes I see her here doing some papers you say... I recognize her here... with sympathy, right? But, of course, they say, "No, it's that here, the revolution, didn't it? Clearly, the revolution of Podemos is that..., not making a reference for the monarchy, no, that we already know that will not happen, is: "We want the CIS to ask about the monarchy, but our governing partners do not leave us. If the Socialists and the State no longer leave them to ask for the monarchy in a CIS inquiry, how do they want to get a reference for the monarchy? But, of course, and, besides, this kind of revolution that sometimes... I understand that leads to contradictions, huh? , rule. "Spain avoids joining the group of countries hosting refugees from Lesbos." Clearly, the government of the PSOE and of Podemos does not join all the international countries that want to join in welcoming refugees from Lesbos when it does the president of the Generalitat of Catalonia and the Government of the Generalitat, who do offer themselves. Is this the 15-M revolution? Is that what this was all about? For when up in the chair does not have this social sensibility, at least, as at least – as at least – to be able to join the countries, as does the Government of the Generality and as proposed by President Torra, with the misfortune that has happened to Lesbos? I think that this social sensibility, you, from the power you hold, that it's a lot in these moments, with ministries, with mayors and all folded, you should try not to lose it, because a desire to get to the place of responsibility to make progress and to make things evolve. And Mr. Alejandro is right, that life gives a lot of tumbles. See if in a woman, in tombs, that you were in the government, Mr. Mariano Rajoy applied 155, and now Mr. Mariano Rajoy and Mr. Cospedal and it seems to me that also Mr. Fernández Díaz, etc., come up with some very strange information around something that is said Kitchen, right? Doesn't that sound like it? Does that sound like it or doesn't it sound like it? The crude war and the clavegueres... The one that does not change, Mr.Alejandro Fernández, is the impunity of the Spanish State in this crude war and in these clavegueres, which is maintained, govern you or governments the Socialist Party, and always, generally, against the independenceists. Maybe you should have them reflect on a little bit and see if this changes, see if this impunity changes. Since you say that everything is changing, let's see if this impunity goes to Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Cospedal, Mr. Fernández Diaz, who have allowed this type of operation to be possible... Finally, I finish, President, giving him all the support. Tomorrow, you, the President of the Generality of Catalonia, have a trial at the Supreme Court to put down a banner of "Freedom of Expression, and I am convinced that the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship, as it cannot otherwise be, we remain independent or we do not follow independence, we vote on what we vote, live on, talk about what we speak..., but the people of Catalonia is a people of accompliment, it is an inclusive people and it is a people of sum that has always respected freedom of expression. It's a fundamental right. Tomorrow the President of the Generality has tried the Supreme Court to respect the freedom of expression. I know, and I am not convinced, that, President, when you go to trial tomorrow, you have not only a solid parliamentary majority behind you that gives you recollection, as I hope we can express with the motions for resolutions, but you also have a whole people behind you defending the essential rights, such as freedom of expression. Thank you very much, President. It's got all our support. We're on your side. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-16-6101.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, and as a compliment to the Rules of Procedure, I remind you that the processing of subsequent motions for resolutions to this debate will be the next. From the outset, in order to present the motions for resolutions, they have deadlines until today at the end of the day, eh? And I also tell you that after this presentation of the motions for resolutions, there will be a _table, an hour and a quarter after six o'clock in the afternoon, to admit them to transit. Similarly, I am also guessing that the deadline for submitting transactional proposals will be until tomorrow you say to five in the afternoon, and that is an improbable term. I also tell you that tomorrow two-quarters of six will be forwarded to the parliamentary groups the agreed compromise proposals, and that, finally, the debate and voting of these resolution proposals will be divested from the morning gods. We suspend the session, so, therefore, until you sell to the gods of the morning. Thank you very much.
